CHARTER TOWNSHIP of MONTROSE,
MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 22-007-153.021, passed 11-1-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
Supervisor                Coetta Adams
Clerk                     Steve Schlicht
Treasurer                 Mary Quast
Trustee                   Tom Tithof
Trustee                   Gary Keeler
Trustee                   Gerald Cole
Trustee                   Sam Spence
Police Chief              Orville (Jamie) Cochran
Fire Chief                George Taylor
Assessor                  Kevin MacDermaid (Legacy Assessing)
Building/Zoning Official  William McIlmurray
Community Center Director Sara Warren
Cemetery Sexton           Maynard Reed
 
Montrose Charter Township
Steve Schlicht, Clerk
11444 North Seymour Road
Montrose, MI 48457
Phone: (810) 639-2021   Fax: (810) 639-3207
www.montrosetownship.org         sschlicht@montrosetownship.org
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 159
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF MONTROSE
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Charter
Township of Montrose are inadequately arranged and classified and are
insufficient in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the township and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the Charter Township of Montrose to revise, amend, restate, codify
and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore
adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into the ordinance in
book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of Montrose has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Charter Township of Montrose of a general and permanent nature and
publication of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
township and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the township that this ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEE OF THE CHARTER
TOWNSHIP OF MONTROSE, MICHIGAN:
Section 1:   The general ordinances of the Charter Township of Montrose as
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Charter Township
of Montrose."
Section 2:   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the Titles as shown on the Table of Contents attached hereto.
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places, nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4:   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Trustees and the Clerk of the Charter Township of
Montrose is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5:   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6:   Effective date of this Ordinance shall be the date of its
publication following its final passage.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of
Montrose on this 18th day of September, 2007.
Mark A. Emmendorfer /s/
MARK A. EMMENDORFER, SUPERVISOR
Kelly S. Yuhos /s/
KELLY S. YUHOS, CLERK
CLERK'S CERTIFICATION.
I, Kelly S. Yuhos, Clerk of the Charter Township of Montrose, Genesee County,
Michigan, do hereby certify that the above ordinance was adopted at a regular
meeting of the Charter Township of Montrose Board of Trustees held at the
township's hall at 139 S. Saginaw Street, P.O. Box 3128, Montrose, Michigan
48457 on the 18th day of September, 2007, at which a quorum of the Township
Board was present and voted.
Kelly S. Yuhos /s/
KELLY S. YUHOS, CLERK
PREPARED BY:
OTIS W. STOUT (P-26100)
Attorney at Law
108 North Mill Street
Clio, Michigan 48420
(810) 686-0270
ORDINANCE No. 169
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWNSHIP OF MONTROSE AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, has completed the 2008
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Montrose Township, which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Township; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Michigan code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Michigan; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Township and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Township that this ordinance take effect at an early
date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDAINED by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees
that:
Section 1.   That the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Charter
Township of Montrose as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation, and
as attached hereto, be an the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees and the
Township Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Township
Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Charter Township of Montrose, Board of Trustees on
the 19th day of August, 2008 by a vote of 7 yeas and 0 nays.
                                                                                                  
                           MARK A. EMMENDORFER, SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                  
                           FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
I, Fred Domine, Clerk for the Charter Township of Montrose do hereby certify
that the foregoing Ordinance No. 169 was duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Charter Township of Montrose held on the 19th day of August, 2008 at the
Township Hall at 139 S. Saginaw St., Montrose, MI. 48457.
                                                                                                  
                           FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
ORDINANCE No. 09-179
(Readopted by Ordinance 19-187, passed 9-21-2010)
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWNSHIP OF MONTROSE AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, has completed the 2009 S-
2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Montrose Township, which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Township; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Michigan code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Michigan; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Township and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Township that this ordinance take effect at an early
date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDAINED by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees
that:
Section 1.   That the 2009 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Charter Township of Montrose as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation, and as attached hereto, be an the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees and the
Township Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Township
Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Charter Township of Montrose, Board of Trustees on
the 21st day of July, 2009 by a vote of 7 yeas and 0 nays.
                                                                       
MARK A. EMMENDORFER, SUPERVISOR
                                                                                               
                        FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
   I, Fred Domine, Clerk for the Charter Township of Montrose do hereby certify
that the foregoing Ordinance No. 09-179 was duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Charter Township of Montrose held on the 21st day of July, 2009 at the
Township Hall at 139 S. Saginaw St., Montrose, MI. 48457.
                                                                                               
                        FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
ORDINANCE No. 10-184
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWNSHIP OF MONTROSE AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, has completed the 2010 S-
3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Montrose Township, which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Township; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Michigan code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Michigan; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Township and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Township that this ordinance take effect at an early
date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDAINED by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees
that:
Section 1.   That the 2010 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Charter Township of Montrose as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees and the
Township Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Township
Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
ON A MOTION DULY MADE BY: Dan Hill and seconded by Gary Keeler.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Charter Township of Montrose Board of Trustees on the
16th day of June, 2010, by a vote of 7 yeas and 0 nays.
                                                                                                 
                           MARK EMMENDORFER, SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                 
                           FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
I, Fred Domine, Clerk for the Charter Township of Montrose do hereby certify
that the foregoing Ordinance No. 10-184 was duly adopted the 16th day of June,
2010, at the Township Hall at 139 S. Saginaw St., Montrose, MI. 48457.
                                                                                                 
                           FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
ORDINANCE No. 11-193
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWNSHIP OF MONTROSE AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, has completed the 2011 S-
4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Montrose Township, which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Township; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Michigan code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Michigan; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Township and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Township that this ordinance take effect at an early
date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDAINED by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees
that:
Section 1.   That the 2011 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Charter Township of Montrose as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees and the
Township Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Township
Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
ON A MOTION DULY MADE BY:                     and seconded by
                    .
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Charter Township of Montrose, Board of Trustees on
the 21st day of June, 2011, by a vote of      yeas and      nays.
                                                                                                 
                           MARK EMMENDORFER, SUPERVISOR
                                                                                                 
                           FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
I, Fred Domine, Clerk for the Charter Township of Montrose do hereby certify
that the foregoing Ordinance No. 11-193 was duly adopted the 21st day of June,
2011, at the Township Hall at 139 S. Saginaw St., Montrose, MI. 48457.
                                                                                                 
                           FRED DOMINE, TOWNSHIP CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Montrose Charter
Township Code.”
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE.  The Montrose Charter Township Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Genesee, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Means any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. Means a person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. Means an act or omission that is prohibited
by this code or any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under
this code or any other ordinance of the township, and for which civil
sanctions, including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs,
may be ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Chapter 87, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 - 600.8735. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is
not a lesser included offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Charter
Township of Montrose, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any
officer of the township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or
duty, reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the Charter Township of Montrose and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Montrose, Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP BOARD or BOARD. The Township Board of the Charter Township of
Montrose, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or
division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township or any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the
township;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
township;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
township officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones; specific
speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning;
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all the ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Township Clerk’s office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Montrose Charter
Township Code is hereby amended to read as follows: . . .” The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Montrose Charter Township Code
is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which the section
reads as follows: . . .” The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the township, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a - 764.9e, when the
public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed an
offense in violation of a township ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal; and
   (D)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is
reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   PURCHASING
      
32.   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   RESERVED
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS
      
36.   COST RECOVERY
      
37.   ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Freedom of Information Act Policy
   
30.01   Freedom of Information Act Policy
Salaries
   
30.20   Ratification of salaries
Records Management Handbook
   
30.35   Michigan Township Association Handbook of Guidelines and Approved
Retention and Disposal Schedule adopted
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT POLICY
§ 30.01 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of Montrose Charter Township that all persons,
consistent with the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), are entitled to
full and complete information regarding the affairs of government and official
acts of those who represent them as public officials and employees.
   (B)   The township’s policy is to disclose public records consistent with
and in compliance with state law.
   (C)   The Township Board has established written procedures and guidelines
to implement the FOIA and a written public summary of the specific procedures
and guidelines relevant to the general public regarding how to submit written
requests to the pubic body and explaining how to understand a public body’s
written responses, deposit requirements, fee calculations, and avenues for
challenge and appeal.
   (D)   The written procedures, guidelines, and summary in division (C),
above, shall be available for inspection at the Township Clerk’s Office and the
summary shall be posted on the Township Website.
(Ord. 15-216, passed 7-21-2015)
SALARIES
§ 30.20 RATIFICATION OF SALARIES.
   (A)   The salaries of all elected officials of the Charter Township of
Montrose as established from time to time by action of the Township Board and
as currently in effect are hereby ratified.
   (B)   This section shall become effective upon publication.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-17-1995)
RECORDS MANAGEMENT HANDBOOK
§ 30.35 MICHIGAN TOWNSHIP ASSOCIATION HANDBOOK OF GUIDELINES AND APPROVED
RETENTION AND DISPOSAL SCHEDULE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Charter Township of Montrose, State of Michigan, hereby approves,
by reference, the Michigan Township Association Handbook of Guidelines and
Approved Retention and Disposal Schedule for general and charter townships, as
the Charter Township of Montrose Records Management Handbook.
   (B)   The Charter Township of Montrose, State of Michigan, directs the Clerk
of the Township to keep any and all public records of the township at the
Township Hall and a copy of the Records Management Handbook on file, for public
inspection whenever appropriate.
(Res. 04-05, passed 10-5-2004)
CHAPTER 31: PURCHASING
Section
   
31.01   Purpose and intent
   
31.02   General purchasing policy
   
31.03   Sealed bid procedures
   
31.04   Lowest responsible bidder
   
31.05   Prohibitions
   
31.06   Inspection of materials
   
31.07   Emergency purchases
   
31.08   Cooperative purchases
   
31.09   Sale or disposition of property
§ 31.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, this chapter shall govern the purchase
or lease by the township of any type of service, public grounds, buildings,
offices or equipment, as well as maintenance of equipment, machinery, and other
township-owned property. This chapter shall not apply to professional and other
similar contractual services that are unique and not subject to competition.
This chapter shall also govern the sale or disposition of surplus township
property.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 31.02 GENERAL PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, competitive prices
for all purchases or leases by the township shall be obtained as follows:
      (1)   Sealed bids shall be obtained for all purchases or leases involving
an expenditure of $5,000 or more.
      (2)   Purchases of $500 to $2,000 must have approval of 2 township
executive elected officials. Quotations shall be obtained from no less than 2
sources in all purchases or leases involving expenditures of $2,000 but less
than $5,000. Prior approval shall be obtained from the Township Board on all
expenditures exceeding $2,000, unless approved as part of a departmental
budget. All expenditures must have a purchase order completed and signed by the
appropriate department head.
      (3)   Purchases or leases of less than $500 may be made without first
securing approval of the Township Board. A purchase order must be obtained and
approved by the appropriate department head prior to the purchase or lease. If
the department head is unavailable, such approval shall be obtained from the
supervisor.
   (B)   When making a purchase or lease not requiring a sealed bid, the
Township Supervisor or department head shall consider all circumstances
surrounding the purchase or lease to be made or the service to be provided.
Whenever it is in the best interest of the township, purchases, leases or
services shall be provided from sources in the following order: Montrose
Township, Montrose City, Genesee County, State of Michigan, out of state.
   (C)   Sealed bids shall not be required in the following instances:
      (1)   Where the subject of the purchase or lease is other than a public
work or improvement, and the product or material to be purchased or leased for
is not competitive in nature; provided that in no instance shall such product
or material be purchased or leased without the prior approval of the Township
Board and a properly completed purchase order.
      (2)   The Township Board may, at the request of the Township Supervisor
or department head, authorize the Township Supervisor or his/her designee to
negotiate a contract for the purchase or lease of any product, material or
service with a provider of such product, material or service without regard to
the requirements of this chapter; where the Township Board finds that the
economic interest of the township is best served by negotiating a purchase or
lease with a provider of the product, material or service without requesting
sealed bids.
      (3)   In the employment of professional services, provided that in no
instance shall such professional service be contracted for without prior
approval of the Township Board.
      (4)   Where the goods or services have been previously budgeted and for
which funds have been approved by the Township Board and such goods or services
may be purchased by way of a cooperative purchasing process with other
governmental units or agencies such as, (by way of example) MiDeal, GSA, or
National Joint Powers Alliance (NJPA), or at a price established previously by
such governmental units or agencies.
   (D)   When securing the services of a vendor to service or repair township's
equipment, including but not limited to office equipment such as copy machines
and computers, as well as vehicles, tractors and lawn mowers, the Township
Supervisor or department head shall have authority to employ the provider.
Consideration in the selection of the service provider shall be given to those
providers who are appropriately licensed and skilled and who will best serve
the economic interests of the township. Further consideration shall be given to
qualified providers operating within the township.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 10-189, passed
11-9-2010; Am. Ord. 14-210, passed 8-19-2014; Am. Ord. 14-212, passed 10-21-
2014)
§ 31.03 SEALED BID PROCEDURES.
   Where obtaining sealed bids is required by this chapter, the following
procedures shall apply:
   (A)   Sealed bids shall be requested by the Township Supervisor, or his or
her designee, by mailing a copy of the specifications or requirements to such
qualified vendors as may be known to him or her, by filing a copy of the
request with the Township Clerk, and by publishing a request for sealed bids in
a newspaper of general circulation in the township/city at least 5 days before
the deadline set for submitting such sealed bids.
   (B)   Unless fixed by the Township Board, the Township Supervisor or his or
her designee may prescribe the amount of any security to be deposited with any
bid and, in the case of construction contracts, the amount of labor and
materials or performance bond to be required of the successful bidder. Such
security shall be in the form of certified or cashier's check or bond written
by a surety company authorized to do business in the state.
   (C)   Bids shall be submitted in a sealed envelope to the Township Clerk,
and the outside of the sealed envelope shall indicate the material enclosed to
be a bid, and shall describe the bid request to which the sealed bid
corresponds.
   (D)   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place designated in the
notice requesting bids. Bids shall be opened by the Township Supervisor, or his
or her designee, and at least 1 other township official or employee.
Immediately following the opening, bids shall be examined, tabulated and made
available for public inspection.
   (E)   The tabulation of the bids shall be submitted to the Township Board at
the next regular Board meeting following the opening of the bids. The Township
Board, at its discretion, may accept the lowest bid, reject any or all bids, or
determine the low bid to be unsatisfactory. The Township Board reserves the
right to accept a bid other than the lowest bid, if it can be demonstrated that
doing so would be in the township’s best interest.
   (F)   The township shall not knowingly accept the bid of a contractor who is
in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies due to the
township. Purchases or leases with bidders who are found to have been in
default at the time of award of such purchase or lease shall be voidable.
   (G)   If, at the Township Board's discretion, the award is not made to the
lowest bidder, the resolution awarding the contract shall state the reasons for
not accepting the low bid.
   (H)   After the opening of bids, such bids may not be withdrawn without
forfeiture of the bid deposit. Deposits of security accompanying bids shall be
retained until the contract is awarded and signed, except that deposits from
bidders not awarded the contract shall be returned to such bidders within 72
hours following Township Board action. If any successful bidder fails or
refuses to enter into the contract awarded to him within 10 days after being
notified of such award, or should such bidder fail to file any bond required
within the same time, the deposit accompanying in such bidder's bid shall be
forfeited to the township, and the Township Board may, at its discretion, award
the contract to the next lowest competent bidder.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 31.04 LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   Purchases or leases may be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
   (B)   In addition to price, in determining lowest responsible bidder the
township shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the goods or services required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interferences;
      (3)   The quality of the bidder's performance in previous purchases or
leases for goods or services;
      (4)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the goods or services that are the subject of the
purchase or lease;
      (5)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the goods or services that are the
subject of the purchase or lease;
      (6)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      (7)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the goods or services that are the subject of the purchase or lease;
      (8)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid by the
bidder;
   (C)   In determining and awarding any purchase, lease or service, the Board
may consider the bona fide business location of the bidder. The Board may elect
to give a preference to a business located within the township in its
determination of the lowest responsible bidder.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 10-189, passed
11-9-2010)
§ 31.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   No purchase or lease shall be subdivided to avoid the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 31.06 INSPECTION OF MATERIALS.
   The responsibility for the inspection and acceptance of all materials,
supplies and equipment shall rest with the Township Supervisor or his or her
designee.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 31.07 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (A)   If an emergency or an apparent emergency endangering the public peace,
health and/or safety of the township should arise, and the time required in
following established purchasing procedures would vitally affect the welfare of
the township, the Township Supervisor or his or her designee may purchase or
lease directly any supplies, materials, equipment, goods or services deemed to
be immediately necessary.
   (B)   Within 72 hours from the time of such purchase or lease, the Township
Supervisor or his or her designee shall file with the Township Clerk, for
delivery to the Township Board, a detailed explanation of the necessity for any
such emergency purchase or lease.
   (C)   The Township Clerk shall submit the statement to the Township Board no
later than the next regular Township Board meeting before payment thereof may
be authorized, unless such purchase or lease does not require Township Board
approval hereunder.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 31.08 COOPERATIVE PURCHASES.
   The Township Board or Township Supervisor, or his or her designee, shall
have the power to enter into purchase or lease contracts with other
governmental units and/or other political organizations, if there exists an
opportunity for a saving to the township, and/or where the Township Board
determines that it would be in the best interest of the township, provided that
the Township Board has given its prior approval to such purchases or leases.
(Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 31.09 SALE OR DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   Whenever any township property, real or personal, is no longer needed for
public purposes, and the estimated value of the property is $100 or less, then,
and in that event at the direction of the Supervisor, said property may be
donated to any charitable organization or civic group, or, disposed of in an
appropriate fashion.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 163, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 10-189, passed
11-9-2010)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
Section
   
32.01   Intent and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Organization for emergency services
   
32.04   Emergency Services Coordinator; assistants; deputies
   
32.05   Supervisor; powers; duties
   
32.06   Emergency Services Coordinator; powers; duties
   
32.07   Volunteers; appointments; records
   
32.08   Rights of township employees
   
32.09   No governmental or private liability
   
32.10   Federal surplus property
   
32.11   Violations
§ 32.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish an
organization that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all
municipal resources during periods of emergency.
   (B)   The Township of Montrose Office of Emergency Services will be the
coordinating agency responsible for township-wide emergency preparedness; it
will provide the means through which the Township Board and the Supervisor may
exercise the authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them by
this chapter, and Emergency Management Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 30.401 - 30.421,
as amended.
   (C)   This chapter will not relieve any elected officials or municipal
departments of the normal responsibilities or authority given by general law or
local ordinance, nor will it affect the work of the American Red Cross or other
volunteer agencies organized for relief in a natural disaster.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The responsible head of the Township of Montrose Office of
Emergency Services, appointed as prescribed in this chapter.
   DISASTER. Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, snow, ice or wind storm,
wave action, oil spills, water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, utility failure, epidemic, air contamination, blight,
drought, infestation, explosion, riot, or hostile military or paramilitary
action.
   EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION. A proclamation issued by the Governor that a state
of emergency exists under the provision of Public Act 302 of 1945, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 10.31 - 10.33.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. A broad meaning to include preparations for, and relief
from, the effects of natural and human-made disasters as defined herein, and to
include civil defenses, as defined in Emergency Management Act, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 30.401 - 30.421, as amended.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES FORCES. The employees, equipment, and facilities of all
municipal departments, boards, institutions, and commissions suitable for, or
adaptable to, participation in emergency services activities as designated by
the Supervisor with the approval of the Board; and, in addition, it shall
include all volunteer personnel, equipment, and facilities contributed by, or
obtained from, volunteer persons and agencies.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered and appointed by
the Coordinator and assigned to participate in the emergency services activity.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. Any situation confronting a community requiring
emergency actions of a lesser nature than a disaster, as defined above, to
include, but not limited to, civil disturbances, labor strikes, visits by
national or international dignitaries, and build-up activities prior to an
actual disaster.
   SUPERVISOR. The chief elected official of the Township of Montrose; and
BOARD shall mean the Township Board of the Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.03 ORGANIZATION FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   The Supervisor, with the approval of the Board, is hereby authorized
and directed to create an organization to prepare for community disasters
utilizing to the fullest extent existing agencies within the municipality. The
Supervisor, as executive head of the township government, shall be the Director
of the Emergency Services Forces of the township and shall be responsible for
their organization, administration, and operation, working through the
Coordinator.
   (B)   The organization for providing emergency services shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   An Office of Emergency Services established within township
government. The Office of Emergency Services shall have an administrative head
appointed who will be known as the Coordinator, Office of Emergency Services.
The assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary for the proper
functioning of the organization will be employed; and
      (2)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all municipal
departments, boards, institutions, and commissions suitable for, or adaptable
to emergency service activities may be designated as part of the total
Emergency Services Forces. The designations shall be by the Supervisor with the
approval of the Board.
   (C)   All officers and employees of departments, commissions, boards,
institutions, and other agencies of the township government designated by the
Supervisor, with the approval of the Board, as Emergency Services Forces shall
cooperate with the Emergency Services Coordinator in the formulation of the
Emergency Operations Plan, and they shall assist the Coordinator in all matters
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.04 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORDINATOR; ASSISTANTS; DEPUTIES.
   (A)   The Supervisor, with the approval of the Board, shall appoint an
Emergency Services Coordinator who shall be a person with the personal
attributes, experience, and training needed to coordinate the activities of the
agencies, departments, and individuals with the township to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare during emergency situations and disasters.
   (B)   Assistant Coordinators shall be designated to work with the
Coordinator on emergency planning matters. Assistant Coordinators shall be
selected and shall serve as follows.
      (1)   There shall be 1 Assistant Coordinator appointed from each township
department designated by the department head, with the approval of the
Supervisor, as part of the Emergency Services Forces.
      (2)   Assistant Coordinators shall assume the duties of the Coordinator
whenever he or she is unavailable during disasters or emergency situations in
the order of designation by the Supervisor, acting upon the recommendation of
the Coordinator.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.05 SUPERVISOR; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Supervisor may exercise the emergency power and authority as
specified herein. Whenever a situation requires, or is likely to require, that
the Supervisor invoke the power and authority, he or she shall, as soon as
reasonably expedient, convene the Board to perform its legislative and
administrative duties as the situation demands, and shall report to that body
relative to emergency activities. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
abridging or curtailing the powers of the Board unless specifically provided
herein.
   (B)   Under the following circumstances, the Supervisor may assemble and
utilize the Emergency Services Forces, and he or she may prescribe the manner
and conditions of their use:
      (1)   Whenever, on the basis of information received from authoritative
sources, he or she feels that a large-scale disaster or emergency situation in
the township or state is imminent; and
      (2)   During any period of disaster in the township or state and
thereafter as long as he or she shall deem it necessary.
   (C)   Whenever the Supervisor finds that any condition in the township has
attained, or threatens to attain, the proportions of a major disaster, he or
she may assemble and utilize Emergency Services Forces and he or she may
prescribe the manner and conditions of their use. The Supervisor, with the
approval of the Board, is hereby empowered to enter into mutual aid agreements
with other public and private agencies for reciprocal aid and assistance during
disasters which are beyond local capabilities and resources. He or she may,
when he or she deems it in the public interest, send Emergency Services Forces
of the township to the aid of other communities stricken by disaster as
provided by mutual aid agreements; provided, that after the Board convenes, the
future continuance of any such disaster relief and the period thereof shall be
subject to the action of the Board.
   (D)   The Supervisor, with the approval of the Board, may make regulations
permitting the Coordinator to assemble and utilize the Emergency Services
Forces and provide disaster relief aid as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C)
above.
   (E)   When obtaining formal approvals would result in delay of relief
activity, the Supervisor may, until the Board convenes, waive procedures and
formalities otherwise required pertaining to the performance of public works,
entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase and distribution of
supplies, materials, and facilities and expenditure of existing funds, and the
Board is also empowered to waive any such procedures and formalities.
   (F)   The Supervisor, with the approval of the Board, shall establish
procedures for the succession of government during emergencies where officials
are unavailable for exercising the powers and discharging the duties of their
respective offices, under the provisions of Michigan Const. Art. IV, § 39.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORDINATOR; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Emergency Services Coordinator shall be responsible for the
administration, planning, coordination, and operation of all emergency
preparedness activities in the township. He or she shall maintain liaison with
county, state, and federal authorities, and the authorities of adjacent and
nearby political subdivisions so as to ensure the most effective emergency
operations.
   (B)   His or her duties shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Development of plans for the immediate use of all of the
facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of the township for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons or property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and general welfare;
      (2)   Coordinating the recruitment and training of volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the township for
emergency purposes;
      (3)   Through public information programs, educating the civilian
population as to actions necessary and required for the protection of persons
and property in case of a disaster;
      (4)   Conducting practice alerts and exercises to ensure the efficient
operation of the township’s emergency organization and to familiarize residents
of the township with emergency regulations, procedures, and operations;
      (5)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency or disaster relief programs;
      (6)   Negotiating with owners or persons in control of buildings or other
property for the use of the buildings or property for emergency or disaster
relief purposes, and designating suitable buildings as public shelters;
      (7)   Establishing and maintaining administrative control over a local
radiological defense program, to include emergency preparations for both
peacetime radiation incidents and international wartime disasters;
      (8)   Establishing property accountability procedures for federal surplus
property acquired by the township, federal excess property on loan to the
township, or any other property or equipment loaned to the township for use in
disaster or emergency situations; and
      (9)   Coordinating municipal emergency preparedness activities with those
at the county level and adjacent municipalities.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.07 VOLUNTEERS; APPOINTMENTS; RECORDS.
   Each department, commission, board, or other agency of township government
may at any time appoint or authorize the appointment of volunteer citizens to
augment the personnel of the township department, commission, board, or agency
in time of emergency. The individuals shall be enrolled as Emergency Services
Volunteers and shall be subject to the rules and regulations set forth by the
respective department, commission, board, or agency head for the volunteers.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.08 RIGHTS OF TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEES.
   Township employees assigned to duty as a part of the Emergency Services
Forces pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall retain all of the
rights, privileges, and immunities of township employees, and shall receive the
compensation incident to their employment.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.09 NO GOVERNMENTAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is an exercise by the township of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
As such, neither the township nor agents and representatives of the township,
nor any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, nor
trustee, nor any of the agents thereof acting in good faith carrying out,
complying with, or attempting to comply with this chapter shall be liable for
any damage sustained to persons or property as a result of the activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the township the right to inspect,
designate, and use the whole or any part of the real estate or premises for the
purpose of sheltering persons during a disaster or during an authorized
practice disaster exercise, shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any person on or about the real estate or premises under the
license, privilege, or other permission, or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of the person.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.10 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Emergency Services Coordinator is hereby designated as the person
responsible for accepting federal surplus property with the power and full
authority to sign for the surplus property. The Supervisor shall provide a
written statement to appropriate federal officials designating the current name
of the Coordinator as responsible for complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Coordinator is responsible for the accountability and will
maintain the necessary records for all surplus property obtained for emergency
purposes until relieved from accountability by state and federal authorities.
   (C)   The Coordinator is further authorized to direct payment of service
charges for surplus property to complete all transactions.
   (D)   Misappropriation or unauthorized private use of the public property
while still accountable is subject to prosecution under federal and state
statute.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 32.11 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder, or delay
any Emergency Services Forces in the enforcement or accomplishment of any rule
or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter, or to do any act forbidden by
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained in this
chapter. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or
display any emblem, insignia, or other means of identification as a member of
the Emergency Services Forces of the Township of Montrose unless authority to
do so has been granted to the person by proper officials.
(Ord. 77-9, passed 11-28-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Transportation and lodging fee
   
33.02   Expenses related to emergencies
   
33.03   Telecommunications right-of-way
   
33.04   Telephone line surcharge
   
33.05   Land division fee
   
33.06   Adult entertainment application; annual renewal costs
   
33.07   Service charges in lieu of taxes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 TRANSPORTATION AND LODGING FEE.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be entitled and known as the “Transportation
and Lodging Fee Ordinance” of the Charter Township of Montrose.
   (B)   Findings and intent. The Charter Township of Montrose finds that
frequently persons are arrested in the Township for offenses committed in the
Township, which arrests would require that the person be transported to the
Genesee County jail for lodging. The Township further finds that the Genesee
County jail frequently refuses to accept the person for lodging due to
overcrowding and the township must then transport the person to another county
for lodging in an appropriate county jail. It is the intent of this section to
provide for the imposition of a transportation and lodging fee upon those
persons who must be lodged in a jail in a county other than Genesee County
because the Genesee County jail is unable to or refuses to accept the person
for lodging.
   (C)   Imposition of fee. A fee described in this section as a transportation
and lodging fee is hereby imposed upon each person who, after being arrested
for an offense committed in the township, is transported to and lodged in a
jail in another county because the Genesee County jail is unable to or refuses
to accept the person for lodging, and the person shall be the person
responsible for paying the fee. The fee shall be imposed only where all of the
following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   The person must be arrested for an offense for which lodging in the
county jail is provided for by law.
      (2)   The police official of the township who has taken the person into
custody has attempted to have the arrested individual lodged in the Genesee
County jail.
      (3)   The police official of the township who has taken the person into
custody has been advised by the Genesee County jail that the jail is unable or
unwilling to accept the person for lodging.
      (4)   The arrested person is transported to a county jail in another
county where the person is lodged.
      (5)   The county jail providing the lodging for the arrested person
charges the township a fee for the lodging.
   (D)   Amount of transportation and lodging fee. The transportation and
lodging fee charged to the person shall be equal to the additional cost
incurred by the township for lodging the person in the jail in a county other
than Genesee County. The additional cost shall include the following.
      (1)   The fee, if any, charged to the township for the lodging of the
individual in a county jail other than the Genesee County jail.
      (2)   The additional cost to the township of transporting the person to
and from the county jail in another county (including any transportation to and
from the jail and any court). This cost shall cover:
         (a)   The time spent by police personnel in transporting the person to
and from the other county jail over and above 1 hour, that being the time
normally spent in transporting the person to and from the Genesee County jail.
Charges for the time shall be made at the hourly labor cost (including all
fringe benefits) for the police personnel involved in the transportation.
         (b)   A mileage charge in the amount of $.29 per mile for each mile
traveled by police personnel in transporting the person to and from the other
county jail over and above 24 miles, that being the mileage normally traveled
in transporting the person to and from the Genesee County jail.
   (E)   Collection of transportation and lodging fee. Upon determining the
amount of the transportation and lodging fee as provided for in division (C)
above, the township shall send a bill for the amount to the person responsible
therefor. The bill must be sent to the person no later than 6 months following
the last date of providing the transportation and/or lodging to the person. If
a person fails to pay any transportation and lodging fee imposed in accordance
with the terms of this section, the township may bring a civil action in any
court of competent jurisdiction to collect the transportation and lodging fee.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall become effective upon publication.
(Ord. 1994-10, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 33.02 EXPENSES RELATED TO EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The Charter Township of Montrose finds that a significant
number of traffic arrests and traffic accidents in the township involve drivers
who were operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
beverages and/or controlled substances. In addition, the township finds that
there is a greater likelihood of personal injury and property damage in traffic
accidents involving drivers who were operating a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances. As a result, an
additional operational and financial burden is placed upon the township’s
police, firefighting, and rescue services by persons who are operating a motor
vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or controlled
substances.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
         (a)   The providing, sending, and/or utilizing of police,
firefighting, emergency medical, and/or rescue services by the township, or by
a private individual or corporation operating at the request or direction of
the township, to an incident resulting in an accident involving 1 or more motor
vehicles operated by 1 or more drivers who were impaired by or under the
influence of an alcoholic beverage and/or a controlled substance; or
         (b)   The providing, sending, and/or utilizing of police,
firefighting, emergency medical, and/or rescue services by the township, or by
a private individual or corporation operating at the request or direction of
the township, to an incident resulting in a traffic stop and arrest of a driver
who was operating a motor vehicle while impaired by or under the influence of
an alcoholic beverage and/or a controlled substance by a police officer.
      EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs
incurred by the township or by a private person or corporation operating at the
request or direction of the township in the course of emergency response to the
incident, including the costs of providing police, firefighting, emergency
medical, and/or rescue services at the scene of the incident. These costs
further include all of the salaries and wages of township personnel responding
to the incident, all salaries and wages of township personnel engaged in
investigation, supervision, and report preparation, all costs connected with
the administration and preparation of all chemical tests of the driver, blood,
breath or urine, and all costs related to any prosecution of the person causing
the incident.
   (C)   Liability for expense of an emergency response.
      (1)   Person responsible. A person is liable for the expense of an
emergency response, if while impaired by or under the influence of an alcoholic
beverage or controlled substance, or the combined influence of an alcoholic
beverage and a controlled substance, the person’s operation of a motor vehicle
proximately causes any incident resulting in an emergency response.
      (2)   Presumptions. For the purpose of this section, a person is impaired
by or under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance,
or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and controlled substance,
when his or her physical or mental abilities are impaired to a degree that he
or she no longer has the ability to operate a motor vehicle with the caution
characteristic of a sober person of ordinary prudence. Further, it shall be
presumed that a person was operating a motor vehicle while impaired by or under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage if a chemical analysis of his or her
blood, urine, or breath indicates that the amount of alcohol in his or her
blood was in excess of 0.07%.
      (3)   Charge against person. The expense of emergency responses shall be
a charge against the person liable for the expenses under this section. The
charge constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible by the township in
the same manner as in the case of an obligation under an expressed or implied
contract.
      (4)   Cost recovery schedule. The Township Board shall, by resolution,
adopt a schedule of the costs included in an emergency response. The schedule
shall be available to the public from either the Township Clerk or the Police
Department.
      (5)   Billing. The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may, within
10 days of receiving itemized costs, or any part thereof, incurred for an
emergency response, submit a bill for these costs by first-class mail or
personal service to the person liable for the expenses as enumerated under this
section. The bill(s) shall require full payment within 30 days from the date of
service.
      (6)   Failure to pay. Any failure by the person described in this section
as liable to pay the bill for the expense of an emergency response within 30
days of service shall be considered at default. In cause of default, the
township may commence civil suit to recover the expense plus any costs allowed
by law.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall take effect immediately upon
publication hereof.
   (E)   Cost recovery.
      (1)   Purpose. In order to protect the township from extraordinary
expenses resulting from the utilization of township resources in response to
certain public safety or emergency incidents, this division (E) authorizes the
imposition of charges to recover actual costs incurred by the township or any
of it's departments in responding to such incidents, pursuant to the authority
granted to cities by state law, being M.C.L.A. § 41.806(a).
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ASSESSABLE COSTS. Those costs for services incurred by the township
for police, fire, buildings and grounds, building/code enforcement and other
emergency personnel in connection with a response to a public safety or fire
emergency incident, including, but not limited to, the actual labor and
material costs of the township (including, without limitation, employee wages,
fringe benefits, administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of
equipment operation, costs of materials, costs of transportation, costs of
material disposal and costs of contracted labor) whether or not the services
are provided by the township or by a third party on behalf of the township;
service charges and interest; attorneys' fees, litigation costs and any costs,
fines or penalties to the township imposed by any court or state or federal
governmental entities.
         BOMB THREATS. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other
explosive device which as threatened would violate a federal, state or local
law. (M.C.L.A. § 750.411a.)
         CHAIR LIFT and LIFT SERVICES. A request for a chair lift or lift
services that a privately owned and operated ambulance company could have
provided, i.e. C&M Ambulance.
         EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Emergency medical, public safety, police, fire
and civil defense services.
         EXCESSIVE REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises if such location or
premises has requested emergency assistance more than 5 times in the preceding
30 days.
         FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual device designed to request or
summon emergency assistance which device is activated intentionally or
otherwise, in the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The
determination that there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be
made by the most senior person responding to a false alarm. Provided, however,
a false alarm shall not be deemed to have occurred if:
            1.   Caused by an act of God, i.e., a lighting storm; or
            2.   It originates from a motor vehicle alarm system.
         HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY. Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent and where the Fire Chief or his or her designee has
so declared such activity, accident or emergency a hazardous material incident
or emergency.
         HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any materials which are potentially harmful to
the environment or human or animal life, or which create an unreasonable or
imminent risk to life, health or safety or person or property, or to the
ecological balance of the environment as determined by the Fire Chief or the
senior fire official in charge at the scene, including but not limited to
hazardous substances as defined in Act 71 of Michigan Public Acts of 1995,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 et seq., as amended, and any other substances that
have been classified by the local, state or federal government or any of their
departments or agencies to be hazardous or toxic, i.e., elements, substances,
wastes or by-products, including but not limited to, combustible liquid,
flammable gas, explosives, flammables, poisons, organic peroxides, oxidizer,
pyrophorics, unstable reactive matter, water reactive matter, petroleum
products, anti-freeze, polychlorinated biphenyls and asbestos.
         ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in violation
of a federal, state, or local law or township ordinance and shall include an
arson fire and a fire set in violation of a "no burning" ban or order. An
illegal fire does not include an unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of
God, i.e., lightning storm.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on
the public streets, roads and highways to transport passengers or property
which is required to be registered for use upon such public street, roads and
highways and for the purposes hereof all trailers or appurtenances attached to
any motor vehicle.
         PUBLIC SAFETY OR FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
            1.   Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
            2.   False alarms; over three in 30 days;
            3.   A hazardous material incident, emergency or clean-up services;
            4.   An illegal fire, i.e. an unauthorized grass or brush fire; by
the responsible party
            5.   Bomb threats;
            6.   Threats of harm to oneself or others;
            7.   A structure demolition;
            8.   A utility line failure;
            9.   Automobile or truck fire or
            10.   Aircraft fire.
         RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing into
the environment, including, but not limited to the air, soil, groundwater and
surface water.
         RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual or any individual's parent or legal
guardian, in the case of a minor, any firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity that is responsible for a public safety or fire
emergency incident, either actual or threatened, or is an owner, as defined in
Act 71 of Michigan Public Acts of 1995, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 et seq., as
amended, tenant, occupant or party in control of real and personal property
from which, onto which or related to which there is a public safety or fire
emergency incident, and their heirs, estates, successors and assigns.
         STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire
which must in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her designee be promptly
demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
         THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another or another's property which if carried out
would be a violation of federal, state, or local law.
         UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission or service
line, cable, conduit, pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication or electronic signals
(including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals or electronic impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage if
the owner or party responsible for the maintenance of such utility line or
party responsible for the utility line failure does not respond within one hour
to a request to repair or correct such failure.
      (3)   Cost recovery authorization and procedure.
         (a)   The township may recover all assessable costs allowable by law
in connection with a public safety or fire emergency incident from any or all
responsible parties jointly or severally and as specifically allowed for under
M.C.L.A. § 750.41a.
         (b)   The Township Supervisor or his or her designee shall determine
the total costs for the public safety or fire emergency incident and shall in
consultation with other Township personnel involved in responding to a public
safety or fire emergency incident determine whether to assess any, all or part
of such costs against any of the responsible parties. In making such
determination, the following shall be considered:
            1.   The total assessable costs for bomb threats; emergency
assistance; excessive requests for emergency assistance; false alarm; release
of hazardous materials; creating a hazardous material incident or emergency;
illegal fire or other public safety or fire emergency incident;
            2.   The risk the public safety or fire emergency incident imposed
on the township, its residents and their property;
            3.   Whether there was any injury or damage to person, property or
motor vehicle;
            4.   Whether the public safety or fire emergency incident required
evacuation;
            5.   The extent the public safety or fire emergency incident
required an unusual or extraordinary use of township personnel and equipment;
            6.   Whether there was any damage to the environment and who is the
responsible party;
            7.   Whether structure demolition will be required;
            8.   Whether the emergency incident was the result of a utility
line failure; and
            9.   Whether the emergency incident involved the making of threats
of harm to oneself or others.
         (c)   After consideration of the factors in division (b) immediately
above, the Township Supervisor may allocate assessable costs among and between
responsible parties, including allocating all or some of such costs jointly and
severally against more than one responsible party regardless of whether a
responsible party has other legal liability therefore or is legally at fault.
         (d)   If the Township Supervisor determines not to assess all or a
portion of assessable costs against a responsible party, such determination
shall not in any way limit or extinguish the liability of the responsible party
to other parties.
         (e)   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a cost recovery schedule for
assessable costs which may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Billing and collection of assessable costs. After determining to
assess assessable costs against a responsible party, a representative of the
township will mail an itemized invoice to the responsible party at their last
known address. Such invoice shall be due and payable within 45 days of the date
of mailing and any amounts unpaid after such date shall bear a late payment fee
equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the amount due and any
previously imposed late payment fee remains unpaid. If a responsible party
shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to § 25.205 hereof, such costs, if
upheld, in whole or in part, shall be due and payable 30 days from the date of
determination of the appeal and any late payment fees shall apply thereafter.
      (5)   Procedure for appealing assessable costs. Any responsible party who
receives an invoice for assessable costs shall have an opportunity to meet with
the Township Supervisor or his or her designee to request a modification of
assessable costs. The responsible party shall request in writing such meeting
within 7 calendar days of the date of the invoice assessing the assessable
costs. If after meeting with the Township Supervisor or his or her designee the
responsible party is still not satisfied, he or she may appear before the
Township Board of Trustees to further request a modification of assessable
costs. A responsible party who desires to appear before the Township Board of
Trustees and has already met with the Township Supervisor or his or her
designee as provided above, shall file a written request to appear before the
Township Board of Trustees with the Township Clerk. Upon receipt of such
request, the Township Clerk will place the responsible party on the agenda of
the next regularly scheduled township meeting, provided that the request is
received at least 7 calendar days in advance of such meeting. Any filed request
to appear shall specifically identify and explain all reasons why the
responsible party believes the assessed costs should be modified. Any reason,
basis or argument for modification of assessable costs not set forth in the
request to appear shall be deemed waived by the responsible party, unless the
information presented is new matter that was unknown to the applicant at the
time the request to appear before the Board of Trustees was made. Failure to
timely file a written request to appear shall constitute a waiver of the
responsible party's right to appear before the Board of Trustees; and shall
further constitute the responsible party's agreement to pay the assessable
costs invoiced. After a responsible party has been given an opportunity to
appear before it, the Board of Trustees shall promptly determine whether to
confirm, modify or void the payment of assessable costs invoiced.
      (6)   Enforcement of assessable costs. Assessable costs assessed against
a responsible party not paid when due shall entitle the governmental unit to
take any steps allowed by law, including commencing civil litigation, to
collect the same.
      (7)   Other remedies. In addition to the remedy set forth in division (E)
(6) above, the township shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a responsible
party.
      (8)   No limitation of liability. The recovery costs pursuant hereto does
not limit the liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state or
federal law.
(Ord. 1990-4, passed 7-16-1990; Am. Ord. 09-178, passed 4-21-2009; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 33.03 TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The township has been in compliance with the Metro Act from its
inception on 11-1-2002 and will continue to comply with the Metro Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 - 484.3120.
   (B)   The township, pursuant to the Metro Act, modifies any and all fees
applicable to telecommunication providers’ use of the public rights-of-way to
require the telecommunication providers to pay only those fees required under §
8 of the Metro Act; reserving any rights the township may have to fees due for
the period ending 10-31-2002. If § 8 is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, this modification of fees is void from the date of
modification.
   (C)   The township shall not hold a cable television operator in default or
seek any remedy for failure to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay after 11-
1-2002, a franchise fee or other similar fee on that portion of gross revenues
from charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided
through broadband internet transport access services while reserving any right
the township may have to the fees due for the period ending 10-31-2002.
   (D)   The Township Clerk is directed to send a copy of this section to all
telecommunication providers using the public rights-of-way within the township.
(Res. 03-07, passed 12-16-2003)
§ 33.04 TELEPHONE LINE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   In 1997, the voters of Genesee County approved a maximum surcharge of
$2.40 to be levied per month per telephone line to pay for operation of the 911
Emergency Dispatch Center.
   (B)   $1.50 per month per telephone line is currently being levied to pay
for operation of the 911 Emergency Dispatch Center.
   (C)   All of the Police and Fire Departments in Genesee County wish to
improve their radio communication by way of installation of new transmission
towers and radios.
   (D)   The proposed improvements are cost prohibitive to the Genesee County
communities involved.
   (E)   The communities of Genesee County have instructed the 911 Executive
Board to request the Genesee County Board of Directors increase the monthly
surcharge to the maximum of $2.40 to help defray cost of the new communication
system to the communities.
   (F)   At the regularly scheduled Montrose Township Board meeting held 10-16-
2001, a quorum being present, the Board unanimously voted to support an
increase of the monthly surcharge from $1.50 to $2.40 per telephone line per
month to help defray the cost of the new emergency communications systems to
the communities.
(Res. 01-09, passed 11-20-2001)
§ 33.05 LAND DIVISION FEE.
   Montrose Township will be applying a charge of $25 per split according to
the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293 and Land Division
Ordinance.
(Res. 99-5, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 33.06 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT APPLICATION; ANNUAL RENEWAL COSTS.
   Montrose Township will be applying a charge of $1,000 for the adult
entertainment application and $250 for the annual renewal cost.
(Res. 99-3, passed 3-15-1999)
§ 33.07 SERVICE CHARGES IN LIEU OF TAXES.
   (A)   In accordance with the authority vested in the Township of Montrose
pursuant to Public Act 334 of 1968, § 15a(2), as amended by Public Act 109 of
1969, being M.S.A. 16.114(15a)(2), the computation of the service charge is
hereby amended to read as follows.
   (B)   The amount to be paid as a service charge in lieu of taxes shall be
for new construction projects the greater of, and for rehabilitation projects
the lesser of:
      (1)   The tax on the property on which the project is located of the tax
year prior to the date when construction or rehabilitation of the project was
commenced; or
      (2)   Twenty percent of the annual shelter rents obtained from the
project.
(Ord. 45, passed 2-7-1979)
CHAPTER 34: RESERVED
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
35.01   Title
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Establishment
§ 35.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Charter Township of Montrose
Buildings and Grounds Department Ordinance.
(Ord. 160, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS DEPARTMENT. The department of the township responsible
for the operation, maintenance and improvement of township buildings, grounds,
cemetery, parks and recreational facilities.
   FOREMAN. The person responsible for overseeing the maintenance of township
buildings, grounds, cemetery, parks, and recreational facilities and who
supervises department workers and other employees under the direction of the
Buildings and Grounds Department Superintendent.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person responsible for planning, organizing, directing
and supervising all building, grounds, cemetery, parks and recreation
facilities, programs and employees, within the Buildings and Grounds
Department.
(Ord. 160, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 35.03 ESTABLISHMENT.
   By this chapter, the Charter Township of Montrose creates the Montrose
Township Buildings and Grounds Department and hereby merges the Township Park
Department and the Township Cemetery Department into the Charter Township of
Montrose Buildings and Grounds Department. Said Department shall have a
Superintendent and a Foreman and such other workers and employees as
recommended by the Montrose Township Committee for Buildings and Grounds and as
approved by the Montrose Township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 160, passed 9-18-2007)
CHAPTER 36: COST RECOVERY
Section
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Purpose
   
36.03   Definitions
   
36.04   Liability for expenses of an emergency response
   
36.05   Exemptions from liability
   
36.06   Appeal
   
36.07   Cost recovery schedule of charges
   
36.08   Payment and collection
   
36.09   Effective date
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be known and may be cited as the Cost
Recovery Ordinance.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Michigan law, including M.C.L.A. § 41.806
(a), this chapter is adopted for the purpose of providing reimbursement to the
township for cost and expenses of certain emergency responses provided by the
Charter Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS.
      (1)   Those costs incurred by the township and individuals operating at
the request or direction of the Township as a result of responding to an
enumerated incident. These costs shall include reasonable charges for the use
of the fire equipment and vehicles, fire fighting and containment materials
used at the scene of the incident, the salaries and wages including fringe
benefits of the township personnel responding to, investigating, and preparing
reports concerning the incident and reasonably related costs. These costs shall
also include charges for any disposable supplies and materials used during the
incident, the rental or leasing of any special equipment, the replacement cost
of any township supplies and equipment damaged, lost, or destroyed as a result
of the incident, reimbursement for any special consulting, technical service,
or laboratory cost, and any costs associated with the preparation for or actual
evaluation of the area surrounding the incident. The expense of any emergency
response shall also include any costs and fees incurred in collecting those
charges, costs, and fees authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   The direct and reasonable costs incurred by the township or by a
private person or corporation operating at the request or direction of the
township in the course of emergency response to the incident, including the
costs of providing police, firefighting, and emergency medical rescue services
at the scene of the incident. These costs further include all of the salaries
and wages of township personnel responding to the incident, all salaries and
wages of township personnel engaged in investigation, supervision, and report
preparation, all costs connected with the administration and preparation of all
chemical tests of the driver (including blood, breath or urine) and all costs
related to any prosecution of the person causing the incident.
   BOMB THREATS. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which, as threatened, would violate a federal, state, or local law.
   BUILDING (or STRUCTURE). Any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.
   BUILDING/STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a building or structure
damaged by fire which must, in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her
designee, be promptly demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   CHAIR LIFT and LIFT SERVICES. A request for a chair lift or lift service
that a privately owned and operated ambulance company could have provided.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending, or utilizing of fire fighting,
emergency medical, rescue, or related services and personnel by the township,
or by any other municipality, corporation, or individual operating at the
request or direction of the township, to or at an incident which threatens the
public health, safety, welfare, or property within the township.
   EXCESSIVE REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises if such location or
premises has requested emergency assistance more than 5 times in the preceding
30 days.
   FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual devices designed to request or summon
emergency assistance in which the device is activated (intentionally or
otherwise) in the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The
determination that there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be
made by the most senior public safety person responding to a false alarm.
Provided, however, a FALSE ALARM shall not be deemed to have occurred if:
      (1)   Caused by an act of God, e.g., a lightning storm; or
      (2)   It originates from a motor vehicle alarm system.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any material that poses an unreasonable risk to the
health and safety of the public, animal life, environment, or emergency
personnel if not property controlled during handling, storage, manufacture,
processing, packaging, use, disposal, or transportation and shall include, but
not be limited to, explosives, pyrotechnics, flammable gas, flammable
compressed gas, nonflammable compressed gas, flammable liquid, combustible
liquid, oxidizing material, poisonous gases, poisonous liquid, poisonous solid,
irritating material, etiological material, radioactive material, corrosive
material, or liquefied petroleum gas.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY. Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident, or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent and where the Fire Chief or his or her designee has
so declared such activity, accident, or emergency a hazardous material incident
or emergency.
   ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state, or local law or township ordinance and shall include an arson
fire and a fire set in violation of a “no burning” ban or order. An ILLEGAL
FIRE does not include an unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of God,
e.g., lightning storm.
   OWNER. The record titleholder or their purchaser by contract, or a person or
corporation having vested or contingent interest in the premises, container,
building, or vehicle in question.
   PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land (excluding structures) within the
township.
   RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing
into the environment, including, but not limited to, the air, soil, ground
water, and surface water.
   RESIDENT.
      (1)   Any person having legal residency within the Charter Township of
Montrose. Residency may be established by voter registration or similar public
record maintained by the township or by the County of Genesee, State of
Michigan, or any agency or department of the United States Federal Government.
      (2)   The term RESIDENT shall also include any individual, firm,
partnership, or corporation owning real property within the Charter Township of
Montrose subject to the ad valorem public safety millage.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
      (1)   Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity, or other legal
entity responsible for a public safety or fire emergency incident or any owner,
tenant, occupant, or party in control of real and personal property from which,
on to which, or related to which there is a public safety or fire emergency
incident.
      (2)   The owner, lessor, and/or operator of a fixed facility.
      (3)   The owner, lessee, and/or operator of any motor vehicle.
   THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself, another, or another’s property which, if carried out,
would be a violation of federal, state, or local law.
   TRANSPORTATION AND LODGING FEE. A fee imposed upon each person who, after
being arrested for an offense committed in the township, is transported to and
lodged in a jail in another county because the Genesee County jail is unable to
or refuses to accept the person for lodging. The fee shall be imposed only
where all of the following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   The person must be arrested for an offense for which lodging in the
county jail is provided for by law.
      (2)   The police official of the township who has taken the person into
custody has attempted to have the arrested individual lodged in the Genesee
County jail.
      (3)   The police official of the Township who has taken the person into
custody has been advised by the Genesee County jail that the jail is unable or
unwilling to accept the person for lodging.
      (4)   The arrested person is transported to a county jail in another
county where the person is lodged.
      (5)   The county jail providing the lodging for the arrested person
charges the Township a fee for the lodging.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication, electronic signals
(including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals or electronic impulses), water, or sanitary or storm sewage.
   VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed for use on public
streets, roads, and highways to transport passengers or property which is
required to be registered for use upon such public streets, roads, and
highways, and including all trailers or appurtenances attached to any such
vehicle.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.04 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   Unless specifically exempted from liability, the property owner,
occupant, or operator of real or personal property are all individually liable
to the township for the expense of an emergency response. The property owner
remains liable for reimbursing the township for any cost incurred in response
to an incident involving his/her/its property even though the owner has, by
agreement, imposed on an occupant or operator the duty to guard against, insure
against, or indemnify the property owner from any of the charges, costs, or
fees encompassed by this chapter.
   (B)   When a particular response by the Fire Department directly benefits
more than one person or property, the owner of each property so benefitted and
each person so benefitted where property protection is not involved shall be
jointly and severally liable for the payment of the full fee for such service
hereinbefore outlined. The apportionment of costs among and between recipients
of emergency services, interpretation, and application of this subsection is
hereby delegated to the Township Fire Chief or Public Safety Administrator
subject only to the appeal procedures set forth in §
36.06.
   (C)   Traffic accidents, vehicle fires, and medical assistance responses
subject to the exemption provided for Montrose Township residents found at §
36.05(D).
   (D)   Second and all subsequent responses to any premises within the
township required by unauthorized open burning incidents or by violation of the
township’s burning ordinance, as it may be amended.
   (E)   The individual(s) responsible for any intentional false alarm causing
a response by the Montrose Township Fire Department as well as third and all
subsequent responses to any one building within any 12 month period required by
any type of alarm caused by mechanical failure.
   (F)   Releases or threatened releases of hazardous or toxic materials.
   (G)   Downed overhead power, electrical, transmission, telephone, or cable
lines.
   (H)   All municipal entities including the County of Genesee and the State
of Michigan shall be reviewed on an incident basis for all cost recovery
charges; except those services related to releases of hazardous or toxic
materials performed within the Montrose Township boundaries shall not be exempt
from the reimbursement of charges.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM LIABILITY.
   The following properties and services shall be exempt from the reimbursement
of charges:
   (A)   Fires caused by railroad trains which are the specific statutory
responsibility of a railroad company to the extent state statutes exempt them
from liability.
   (B)   Fires involving township property.
   (C)   Fire services performed outside the jurisdiction of the township under
a mutual aid contract; except those services related to specific releases of
hazardous or toxic materials performed outside of the Montrose Township
boundaries shall not be exempt from the reimbursement of charges.
   (D)   Traffic accidents, vehicle fires, and medical assistance responses
where the individual(s) receiving the benefit of the response is a resident of
the Township of Montrose on the date of the response.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.06 APPEAL.
   Any party aggrieved by a charge or an apportionment of charges authorized in
this chapter may appeal the charge or its apportionment as follows:
   (A)   Within the time period for which a bill is payable the party shall
file a written request with the Township Clerk setting forth specific reasons
alleging why the charge is improper.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify the aggrieved party in writing of the time,
place, and date the Township Board will hold a hearing on the appeal.
   (C)   The Township Board may grant relief on appeal if it finds:
      (1)   The service provided was given as the result of false information
or false alarm not caused by the party to whom service was provided.
      (2)   The charges assessed do not comply with the township schedule of
charges or that the apportionment of said charges is in some fashion
inappropriate.
      (3)   The individual assessed is responsible for paying the township wide
ad valorem public service millage.
      (4)   For other good cause with sufficient proof to satisfy the Township
Board.
   (D)   The Township Board may extend the time for payment for a reasonable
period of time not to exceed 1 year.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.07 COST RECOVERY SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   The Montrose Township Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, adopt and
periodically amend a schedule of fees and costs included within the expenses of
an emergency response. The schedule shall include consideration of the actual
cost of township emergency and fire department equipment as well as
consideration of the effective hourly wage schedule for fire and emergency
personnel. This schedule shall be available to the public from the Township
Clerk’s Office.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.08 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The township shall cause a written bill to the property owner,
occupant, and operator for the expenses of the relevant emergency response to
be issued as soon as practical after the incident. The bill shall be due and
payable within 30 days from the date of mailing.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the owner, occupant, or operator to reimburse the
township for the expenses of the emergency response, a lien may be placed upon
the relevant property for the amount of the expenses, which lien may be
collected in the same fashion and manner as real property taxes are collected
within the township.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the township shall be empowered to
maintain proceedings in any court of competent jurisdiction to collect the
expenses of an emergency response as a matured debt of the township.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 36.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall take effect 30 days after publication
thereof in a newspaper circulating within the township.
(Ord. 11-194, passed 10-18-2011)
CHAPTER 37: ETHICS
Section
   
37.01   Intent and purpose
   
37.02   Definitions
   
37.03   Prohibited conduct
 
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the township to uphold, promote and demand the
highest standards of ethics from all its employees and officials, whether
elected, appointed or hired. Township officers and employees (public servants)
shall maintain the highest standards of personal integrity, truthfulness,
honesty and fairness in carrying out their public duties; avoid any
improprieties in their roles as public servants including the appearance of
impropriety; and never use their township position or powers for improper
personal gain.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this chapter to in any way limit the right or
ability of any public servant to exercise his or her discretion in making
legitimate policy decisions which are within their discretion so long as the
action does not provide a special benefit to that person, relieve the public
servant of a particular duty, or treat that person differently than other
similarly situated township resident.
(Ord. 12-195, passed 2-20-2012)
§ 37.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A business entity includes any corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-
employed individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust
or any legal entity organized for profit.
   ELECTED OFFICER. Any person who is elected at a general or special election
to any public office of the township and any person appointed to fill a vacancy
in any office.
   INTEREST. Any right, title or share of something, either personal,
financial, legal or equitable, which is owned, held or controlled, in whole or
in part, directly or indirectly, by a public servant.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.  Every individual appointed, hired or otherwise selected to
an office, position, committee, board, task force or similar multi-member body
with the township, or any subdivision thereof, whether the individual is paid
or unpaid and any person elected or appointed to any public body of the
township. PUBLIC SERVANT includes elected officers.
(Ord. 12-195, passed 2-20-2012)
§ 37.03 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The following shall constitute violations of this section:
   (A)   Improper use of township personnel and property. No public servant
shall employ or use any person under his or her official control or direction
for the personal benefit, gain or profit of the public servant or other. No
public servant shall use township-owned vehicles, equipment, materials, money
or property for personal or private convenience or personal gain. Nothing
herein shall prohibit the use of township equipment or motor vehicles by public
servants in accordance with written policies established by the Township Board,
the Township Supervisor, or the department head concerned, nor shall this
chapter be deemed to prohibit private use of surplus township property legally
disposed of by the township or its departments in compliance with established
procedures.
   (B)   Beneficial interest in business transaction or participation in a
contract. No public servant shall participate or benefit from (monetarily or
personally) in his or her capacity as a public servant in the making of a
contract in which he or she has a financial interest, direct or indirect, or
perform in regard to a contract some function which requires the exercise of
discretion on behalf of the township. No public servant shall participate in
contracts, loans, grants, rate-fixing or issuing permits involving a business
in which he or she has a substantial interest; however this provision shall not
apply in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Contracting with the township where:
         (a)   The contract is awarded pursuant to sealed bids;
         (b)   The public servant is not involved directly or indirectly or
otherwise refrains from participation in the decision on the award of the
contract; and
         (c)   The Township Board, after reviewing the circumstances,
determines the award of the contract would be in the best interest of the
township.
      (2)   Where the interest of the public servant in the business involves
the holding of less than 1% of the securities in a publicly traded business or
less than 5% of privately or closely held business and where the public servant
will not have any involvement in the transaction on behalf of the contracting
business.
   (C)   Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) activities.
      (1)   No public servant having any responsibility or decisionmaking
authority related to Community Development Block Grant activities may obtain
any financial interest in, or benefit financially from any CDBG assisted
activity.
      (2)   No public servant of the township shall participate in the
selection, award or administration of any contract supported by federal funding
where the public servant, or any member of his or her immediate family has a
financial or other interest in any business selected or considered for
selection to provide supplies, equipment, construction or services.
(Ord. 12-195, passed 1-20-2012) Penalty, see § 37.99
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of the chapter may be charged
with a civil infraction and may be subject to a fine of up to $500 for any
violation not resolved.
(Ord. 12-195, passed 1-20-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Public/private utilities
   
50.02   Mobile home parks connected to sewer system
   
50.03   Rental property responsibility
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PUBLIC/PRIVATE UTILITIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREETS. Shall include all highways, alleys, rights-of-way, and public
places within the township.
   TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER. A person or an affiliate of the person each of
which for compensation provides one or more telecommunication services.
   TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. Shall include regulated and unregulated services
offered to customers for the transmission of 2-way interactive communication
and associated usage.
   UTILITY. A public service such as a steam heat, electric, power, gas, water,
telegraph, communications, pipeline, or gas producing company regulated by the
Public Service Commission, whether private, corporate, or cooperative, except a
municipally-owned utility.
   UTILITY COMPANY. Any public or private person, firm, political subdivision
of the State of Michigan, municipality, or corporation whose purpose it is to
transmit and maintain any appurtenance for the use of any transmission of a
utility.
(Ord. 121, passed 5-17-1999)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, political subdivision of
the State of Michigan, municipality or corporation or any of its subdivisions
to use, enter upon, excavate, construct, lay out, or use for the construction
and maintenance, any roadway or street for any telegraph, telephone, or power
lines, pipe lines, wires, cables, poles, conduits, sewers, and like structures
upon, over, across, or under any public road, bridge, street, or public place
in the Township of Montrose; provided that every such telephone, telegraph,
power, and other public and private utility company, person, firm, political
subdivision of the State of Michigan, municipality, or corporation, before any
of the work of the construction or erection shall commence, shall first obtain
a permit from the Township of Montrose authorizing the lines, poles, sewers,
wires, cables, conduits, or such like structures to be constructed and erected.
   (C)   Lines, poles, sewers, wires, cables, conduits, or such like structures
constructed or erected without the necessary permit or in violation thereof,
shall be removed. Lines, poles, sewers, wires, cables, conduits, or such like
structures constructed or erected under terms of the permit shall be removed,
altered, relocated at the expense of the party to whom the permit is issued if
requested by the Township of Montrose to do so.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit 2 sets of complete design plans with proof
of approval of the Genesee County Road Commission to the Township of Montrose,
and upon approval and issuance of a permit by the Township Board, shall display
their County Road Commission permit to any designated official of the county as
the township has hereinafter provided. Ninety days from the date of completion,
the applicant must submit the reproducible finished set of plans of the project
as constructed to the Township of Montrose.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the person, firm, political subdivision of the
State of Michigan, municipality, or corporation, to do the construction,
maintenance, erection, and the like, in a workmanlike manner and that they
shall repair and replace as near as possible the roadway in as near the same
condition as is possible and shall do the work on condition that such shall be
considered as an agreement on the part of the person, firm, political
subdivision of the state, municipality or corporation with the Township of
Montrose to keep the same in good repair and condition at all times during
their control thereof, to indemnify and save harmless the Township of Montrose
from any and all damages actions, claims at law which may arise or be brought
by reason of the control, use, construction, and maintenance of the utility.
   (F)   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the enforcement officer
of this section and it shall be his or her duty to perform all the acts
necessary and appropriate for the enforcement of this section. The Township of
Montrose may designate some other person to serve at the pleasure of the
Township Board as the Building Inspector under this section, in which case, the
person shall act as the enforcement officer for this section, and it shall be
his or her duty to perform all the acts necessary and appropriate for the
enforcement of this section.
   (G)   This section is to take effect on 1-21-1972.
(Ord. 47, passed 12-13-1971) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 MOBILE HOME PARKS CONNECTED TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Montrose township has voted to fix the rate of tap-in fees at $3,000
per first 2 lots or units and $1,500 per lot or unit, thereafter.
   (B)   The parks will have a master meter for water consumed. The minimum
billing will be the Township minimum fee, times the total number of lots or
units in the park, plus other buildings using
water.
   (C)   The township will bill per unit for sewer usage when water is metered.
The cost is $20 minimum for the first 1,250 cubic feet and $1.02 rate per 100
cubic feet after minimum, regardless of meter size.
   (D)   If the parks increase their size, they will have to pay more tap-in
fees, plus minimum billing charge will be increased accordingly.
   (E)   The Township Board hereby approves the rates to the mobile home parks
for the use of the sewer system in Montrose Township.
(Res. 99-07, passed 5-17-1999; Am. Res. 03-04, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 50.03 RENTAL PROPERTY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Whenever the owner of a property serviced by either or both township
sewer and water systems shall have the premises rented or leased to another,
the property owner may file an affidavit of non- responsibility with the
Township Treasurer, together with a deposit which shall be held as a guarantee
of payment of all charges, including shut-off and turn-on fees. Any portion of
the deposit not used for the payment of delinquent charges shall be returned to
the depositor (as reflected in the affidavit of non-responsibility) upon
discontinuance of service to the property, or may be transferred to the credit
of a future occupant by written request to transfer received from the
depositor.
      (1)   Deposits shall not bear interest, and in the event that a deposit
has been made which is unclaimed by the original depositor within 5 years
following discontinuance of service to the tenant(s) reflected on the
affidavit, and the city has not received a written request to transfer the
deposit to a successor tenant, then the township may forfeit the deposit and
transfer the deposit to the water fund or sewer fund of the township.
      (2)   In the event the township is notified of a change of ownership or
occupancy at a premises where an affidavit of non-responsibility has been
filed, the township shall require the successor owner or occupant to place a
new deposit with the township unless the original depositor shall have
transferred the deposit to the owner or successor occupant by a written
transfer. The township shall not be obligated to return an original or
successor owner or occupant's deposit unless the person entitled thereto shall
apply to the Township Treasurer for the return thereof.
   (B)   Effect of filing affidavit.
      (1)   The filing of an affidavit of non-responsibility and deposit shall
preclude the township from placing a lien upon the premises in accordance with
M.C.L.A. § 123.165 for usage charges, although property owners shall, however,
remain liable for all tap-in (connection) charges for the use of the township
water and sewer supply systems and these charges may be entered upon the tax
roll, and shall remain liable for all water and sewer fees during the time(s)
when the property is not occupied by a tenant or an approved affidavit has not
been accepted and is not on file with the township.
      (2)   The filing of an affidavit of non-responsibility shall further have
the effect of waiving liability for usage charges as to the property owner for
that property for so long as the affidavit and deposit remain on file with the
township and all annual fees, if applicable, are paid.
   (C)   An affidavit of non-responsibility shall be in the form as prescribed
by the Township Treasurer and shall, in addition to the signature of the owner,
be executed by the person(s) in possession of the premises and using the
services.
   (D)   Deposit and fees; failure to pay.
      (1)   An affidavit of non-responsibility shall be accompanied by a
deposit initially established at $225. In addition to the deposit the property
owner or tenant shall pay an annual fee to the township initially established
at $45 for the first year, and $30 for each year thereafter that the affidavit
of non-responsibility remains on file with the township. Failure to pay the
annual fee will cause the affidavit of non-responsibility to become null and
void immediately and without notice to the property owner or to the tenant.
      (2)   Whenever an affidavit of non-responsibility shall be properly filed
with the required deposit and affidavit fee, then the township will read the
water meter of the premises monthly. The township will further submit monthly
billings to the tenant at the subject premises and discontinue waster service
if the bill is not paid in full after 30 days from its due date in accordance
with the procedure established in §§ 51.07 through 51.10.
(Ord. 19-234, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of §
50.01 shall be, upon the conviction thereof, a fine of $100 or imprisonment in
the county jail not to exceed 90 days, or both the fine and imprisonment at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 47, passed 12-13-1971)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water Supply System
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of system to comply with regulations
   
51.03   System to serve all future land developments within water supply
district
   
51.04   Inspection and approval fee
   
51.05   Connection or availability fee
   
51.06   Number of units assigned to premises
   
51.07   Charges for water supply services; no free service; bills
   
51.08   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.09   Delinquent charges; tax lien
   
51.09A   Right of termination; notice; nuisance; outstanding invoice
   
51.09B   Billing; delinquent payment; discontinued service
   
51.10   Fiscal year of system
   
51.11   Supervision of system
   
51.12   Enforcement
   
51.13   Effective date
   
51.14   Equipment damage due to neglect; owner responsibility
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Township Board of the Township of Montrose, the legislative and
governing body thereof.
   CHARGES FOR WATER SUPPLY SERVICES or CHARGES. The amount charged to each
premises in the township for water supply services.
   CONNECTION FEE or AVAILABILITY FEE. The amount charged at the time and in
the amount hereinafter provided, to each premises in the township for
connecting directly or indirectly to the system.
   COUNTY. The County of Genesee, Michigan.
   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE. The amount charged to each applicant by the
district at the time an application is made to the county to connect the
premises in the township to the system to cover the cost of the water meter,
the cost of installing the line from the main to the curb box, the cost of
inspecting and approving the physical connection from the curb box to the meter
and the issuance of a connection permit.
   SYSTEM. The water supply system as now or hereafter established and
construed by the county with the consent of the township to serve the residents
of the Township of Montrose.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Montrose, Michigan.
   UNIT. Any premises or portion of premises to which there is available or
delivered that quantity of water ordinarily used in or needed for the occupancy
of a residence building by a single family.
   WATER SUPPLY DISTRICT or DISTRICT. Genesee County Water Supply District in
Montrose Township, as shown on Exhibit “A” attached to Ordinance 18.
   WATER SUPPLY SERVICES. The transportation, metering, pumping, and delivery
of potable water to the properties now hereafter connected directly or
indirectly to the water supply system.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The Genesee County Water Supply System in Montrose
Township, established and construed by the county under agreement with the
township dated 10-1-1979 and all extensions, enlargements, and improvements
thereto in the area served by the system in Montrose Township.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.02 USE OF SYSTEM TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   The system shall be used for the transportation and delivery of potable
water only. Connections to the system, directly or indirectly, and the use of
the water therefrom for all purposes shall be only in compliance with this
subchapter and with the standards and regulations of the county and the
township applicable thereto, all of which shall apply.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 SYSTEM TO SERVE ALL FUTURE LAND DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN WATER SUPPLY
DISTRICT.
   Land within the water supply district subdivided and platted and permits to
improve parcels of land within the district after the effective date hereof,
shall not be approved or issued on behalf of the township and none of the lots
or parcels shall be improved by the erection of a building thereon unless water
mains and lines to serve all of the lots or parcels and to connect same to the
system are available as part of the system or shall be installed at private
cost or by special assessment (except in roadside plats, wherein for each lot
there shall be deposited in escrow, with the township a sum of money equal to
the connection fee and inspection and approval fee to be paid to the water
supply district at the time water is there available) in compliance with the
ordinances of the township and the statutes of the State of Michigan regulating
and requiring improvements on land not covered or any amendments to the
ordinances.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.04 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE.
   (A)   Owners of premises within the township in which water is used, and for
which direct connection to the system is available as of the date of September
1, 2007, shall pay inspection and approval fee to the county in the amounts set
and established by the county, at the time application is made for a permit to
connect the premises to the system. The county shall transmit to the township
an amount to be determined by resolution of the Township Board from the amount
of collection for each permit issued.
   (B)   Any owner of premises within the district for which direct connection
to the system is available, but in which water is not now used, as of the
effective date hereof, who thereafter improves the same by erection of a
dwelling thereon shall pay an inspection and approval fee as set forth above.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979; Am. Ord. 161, passed 10-16-2007 )
§ 51.05 CONNECTION OR AVAILABILITY FEE.
   (A)   Owners of premises within the district in which water is used or who
thereafter improve the same by the erection of a dwelling thereon shall pay, at
the time a connection permit or construction permit is issued, a connection or
readiness to serve fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of
the Township Board.
   (B)   Fees shall be computed on the basis of unit factors.
      (1)   Each single-family residence connected directly to a public water
main installed at public expense, other than by special assessment against the
benefitted property, shall pay a connection fee as shall be from time to time
established by resolution of the Township Board.
      (2)   Where the premises are connected directly to a water main, which
water main has been installed at the expense of the owner or by special
assessment, or at the expense of the subdivider or developer from whom the
owner purchased and not at the expense of the township or county, and where the
water main and necessary easement for maintenance, service and replacement by
dedication to and accepted by the township or the other government agency as
directed by the township, then the connection fee shall be in accordance with a
rate schedule which shall be from time to time established by resolution of the
Township Board.
      (3)   Where a connection to the public water main shall be a single
connection serving more than 1 unit as herein defined (including the
connections as apartment or multi-family units, trailer parks, commercial
establishments, or other) the connection fee shall be in accordance with a rate
schedule as shall from time to time be established by the Township Board.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979; Am. Ord. 161, passed 10-16-2007 )
§ 51.06 NUMBER OF UNITS ASSIGNED TO PREMISES.
   The number of units to be assigned to any particular premises used for any
purpose or purposes shall be determined on the basis of the Table of Unit
Factors, attached to Ordinance 18. If the circumstances justify, more than 1
unit may be assigned to a single-family dwelling. No less than 1 unit shall be
assigned to each premises but units in excess of 1 may be computed and assigned
to the nearest tenth. If subsequent changes in use or a premises increase or
decrease, the unit classification, the number of units assigned to the premises
may be increased or decreased. No change in subsequent use of any premises
shall result in a decrease of unit assignment to less than 1.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.07 CHARGES FOR WATER SUPPLY SERVICES; NO FREE SERVICE; BILLS.
   (A)   Charges for water supply services to each premises within the township
connected with the water supply system shall be in accordance with the water
use schedule as shall be from time to time established by Township Board.
   (B)   No free services shall be furnished by the system to the township or
to any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency
or instrumentality. The township shall pay for all water used by it at the
foregoing rates, except for fire hydrants. Charges for services furnished by
the system to any premises shall be monthly.
   (C)   Bills shall be rendered monthly. The first such charges for each
premises shall be due and payable on the first day of the first full month
after the date the premises are connected to the system, or on the first day of
the first full month after the effective date of the resolution, and successive
charges shall be due and payable on the first day of each month thereafter.
Charges shall be billed at least 15 days before their due date.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979; Am. Ord. 110, passed 4-20-1998; Am. Ord. 133,
passed 5-15-2001; Am. Ord. 136, passed 4-16-2002; Am. Res. 03-05, passed 5-20-
2003; Am. Ord. 161, passed 10-16-2007 )
§ 51.08 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   When it becomes necessary for the township to discontinue utility service to
a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after all
bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge as shall
from time to time be established by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979; Am. Res. 03-06, passed 5-20-2003; Am. Ord. 161,
passed 10-16-2007)
§ 51.09 DELINQUENT CHARGES; TAX LIEN.
   Charges for services furnished by the system to any premises shall be a lien
thereon as of the due date thereof, and on June 1 of each year the Township
Treasurer shall certify the charges which have been delinquent 90 days or more,
plus penalties and interest accrued, to the Supervisor who shall enter the same
upon the next tax roll against the premises to which the services shall have
been rendered and the charges, with penalties and interest accrued thereon,
shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as
provided in respect to taxes assessed upon the roll. In addition to the lien,
the township may order the county to discontinue further service to the
premises and may, at the option of the township, direct the county to refuse
recommencement of service until all past bills have been paid plus a reasonable
deposit for its future.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.09A RIGHT OF TERMINATION; NOTICE; NUISANCE; OUTSTANDING INVOICE.
   (A)   Termination notice. The township shall have the right to discontinue
water service to any premises within the township for any violations of this
section and §§
51.09B and
51.14.
   (B)   Service to public nuisance. The township shall have the right to
terminate water service to any premises declared to be a public nuisance or
public hazard and in situations of noncompliance with other township
regulations or code or ordinance violations.
   (C)   Moved with outstanding invoice. The township shall have the right to
refuse or discontinue water service to any person if that person has failed to
pay an outstanding invoice at a previous premises.
(Ord. 17-227, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 51.09B BILLING; DELINQUENT PAYMENT; DISCONTINUED SERVICE.
   (A)   If any charges are not paid on or before the due date as set forth in
§
51.07, then a penalty of 10% may be added.
   (B)   The township may terminate water service in accordance with the
following procedure:
      (1)   Services may be discontinued in the event any charges are not paid
within 90 days after the due date.
      (2)   The township shall mail notice of water shut off to the occupant
not less than 14 days prior to the scheduled shut off date. However, failure of
the township to mail such notice shall not delay service termination as set
forth in division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   In the event of demonstrated hardship a property owner or occupant
responsible for payment of the water bill may apply to the Treasurer for an
extension of time to pay an outstanding bill. The Treasurer may grant such an
extension, or set up payments on the account, but in no event shall an account
be forgiven or reduced unless there has been a demonstrated error in the
calculation of the bill.
   (C)   Service so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums due and
owing, including penalties, shall be paid in full plus a shut off processing
fee, pursuant to the Township Schedule of Fees, applicable at the time of the
issuance of the shut-off order and irrespective whether or not service was
actually terminated and water turn-on fee pursuant to the Township Schedule of
Fees, which Schedule may hereafter be amended from time to time by resolution
of the Township Board.
(Ord. 17-227, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 51.10 FISCAL YEAR OF SYSTEM.
   The system shall be operated upon the basis of a fiscal year beginning on
January 15 of each year and ending on December 31 of the same year.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.11 SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance, and management of the county water supply system
in the township shall be under the immediate supervision and control of the
township. The township may delegate the same to the county as its agent. The
county, if so appointed as the agent, acting through its duly designated agency
shall collect the connection fee or availability fee payment pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforceable through the bringing
of appropriate action for injunction, mandamus, or otherwise, in any court
having jurisdiction. Any violation of this subchapter is deemed to be a
nuisance per se.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter to become effective on 11-1-1979.
(Ord. 18, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 51.14 EQUIPMENT DAMAGE DUE TO NEGLECT; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any damage which occurs to any building, machinery, pipes, mains, fittings,
curb stop boxes, fire hydrants, water meters, or apparatus, or other fixtures
connected with the system resulting from attempted illegal alteration or
carelessness of the owner, agent, or tenant, or from neglect of either of them
to properly secure and protect the meter, as well as any damage which may be
wrought by frost, hot water or steam backing up from a boiler, shall be paid by
the owner of the property to the township upon presentation of the bill; and in
cases where the bill is not paid, the water shall be shut off and it shall
remain off until all charges have been paid to the township.
(Ord. 17-227, passed 9-19-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Purpose; adoption of County Sewer Use Ordinance (2008)
   
52.03   General provisions
   
52.04   Public sewers and connections
   
52.05   Building sewers and connections
   
52.06   Inspection and protection of sewers
   
52.07   Sewer connection charge
   
52.08   Sewage treatment charges
   
52.09   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Table of Unit Factors
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of the township or the legislative and governing body
thereof.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil and waste pipes inside the walls
of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 5 feet outside
of the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CHARGES FOR SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SERVICES or CHARGES. The amount
charged to each premises in the township for sewage collection and disposal
services.
   COUNTY. The County of Genesee, Michigan.
   COUNTY AGENCY. The Genesee County Drain Commissioner.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial, manufacturing,
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. May is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group, public or private.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works. The complete sewage disposal,
transportation and treatment system of Genesee County, Michigan.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in sewers
and no particle greater than ½-inch in any dimension.
   QUARTER. A consecutive 3-month period and shall coincide with the water
billing period for the premises if furnished water by a public supply.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES. The collection, transportation, treatment, and
disposal of sanitary sewage emanating from properties now or hereafter
connected directly or indirectly to the system.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE. The amount charged to each applicant by the
township at the time an application is made to the township to connect the
premises to the system to cover the cost of inspecting and approving the
physical connection to the system and the issuance of a connection permit.
   SHALL. Shall is mandatory.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface water
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM. The sanitary sewer system of the township.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Montrose, Genesee County, Michigan.
   UNIT. With respect to charges for a particular premises, shall be deemed to
be the equivalent of a household. Unless otherwise provided, the number of
units assigned to a particular premises shall be as provided in the ordinances
governing the Genesee County Sewage Disposal District No. 5 where not provided
for in the ordinances, as established by resolution of the Township Board.
   USER. Any premises connected to a public sewer and includes appurtenant land
and improvements.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE; ADOPTION OF COUNTY SEWER USE ORDINANCE (2008).
   The Genesee County Sewer Use Ordinance is adopted as follows:
   (A)   The Ordinance establishes uniform requirements for discharges by users
located within the Township of Montrose to the Genesee County POTW, and to
enable the Township of Montrose and the County Agency to comply with applicable
state and federal laws as required by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(also known as the "Clean Water Act"), as amended, 33 USC 1251, et seq.; the
General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR part 403); Part 31 of Act 451 of the
Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., as amended
("Water Resources Protection"); and the rules, Michigan Administrative Code, R,
§§ 323.2301 et seq., as amended, promulgated pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3103,
324.3106 and 324.3109, as amended.
   (B)   The Ordinance prohibits the discharge of pollutants from within the
Township of Montrose into the Genesee County POTW that do not meet applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements; that would interfere with the
operation of the POTW; that would pass through the POTW into the receiving
waters or the atmosphere, the environment, or otherwise be incompatible with
the POTW; that would inhibit or disrupt the POTW's processing, use, or disposal
of sludge; that would cause health or safety problems for POTW workers; or that
would result in a violation of the POTW's NPDES permit or of other applicable
laws and regulations.
   (C)   The Ordinance is intended to improve the opportunity to recycle and
reclaim wastewaters and sludges from the Genesee County POTW, as required by
law.
   (D)   The Ordinance regulates the discharge of wastewater and/or pollutants
to the POTW, and provides the authority to enforce the requirements of the
Ordinance through the issuance of permits and other means as provided by the
Ordinance.
   (E)   The Ordinance authorizes and requires all inspection, monitoring,
reporting and enforcement activities as necessary to insure compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements and other applicable laws
and regulations.
   (F)   The Ordinance provides for the equitable distribution and recovery of
costs from users of the Genesee County POTW sufficient to administer regulatory
activities, and to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement
and replacement of the POTW.
   (G)   The Ordinance applies to any person that discharges to the Genesee
County POTW from within the Township of Montrose. The Ordinance also applies to
any person owning, using, constructing or maintaining any private system or
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage or wastewater within the
Township of Montrose.
   (H)   The Ordinance designates, empowers and authorizes the Genesee County
POTW to act as the agent and representative of the Township of Montrose for
purposes of administering and enforcing the Ordinance within the Township of
Montrose. This includes, but is not limited to, the power and authority of the
POTW, as deemed necessary by the POTW, to immediately and independently
investigate, enforce, and prosecute (administratively or judicially, and
civilly or criminally) any violation of the Ordinance or of any notice, order,
permit, decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the POTW under
the Ordinance, and to otherwise implement the requirements of the Ordinance.
   (I)   The Ordinance makes it unlawful for any person to discharge any
wastewater or pollutant to the POTW or to any storm sewer or natural outlet
within the Township of Montrose, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Township of Montrose, except in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance
and other applicable laws and regulations. If any user discharges or proposes
to discharge wastewaters or pollutants that are prohibited or limited by the
Ordinance, the POTW may take any action as provided by the Ordinance or other
applicable laws or regulations to assure and require compliance with the
provisions of the Ordinance.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All premises in the township upon which there exists presently or at
any time hereafter, a building or structure in which water is used or is
available for use, shall be connected to a public sewer if the public sewer is
available to the premises. The connection shall be made, in the case of
premises upon which such a building or structure presently exists, within 18
months after the effective date of this chapter or the date when the public
sewer becomes available to the premises, whichever is the later date. The
connections shall be made, in the case of future improvement of the premises so
as to require connection to a public sewer as above provided, prior to
occupancy or use of the building or structure. A public sewer shall be deemed
to be available to any premises if it is located in a right-of-way, easement,
highway, street, or public way which crosses, adjoins, or abuts upon the
premises and which right-of-way, easement, highway, street, or public way
passes not more than 200 feet distance from the building or structure on the
premises in which water is used or is available for use.
   (B)   No person shall perform the work of making house connections or
building sewer connections unless he or she shall be a State of Michigan
licensed contractor and unless he or she shall post a bond in the sum of $1,000
with sureties approved by the Township Board. This requirement shall in no way
limit an owner from doing his or her own sewer connection work.
   (C)   Compliance by any owner of any premises or by any other person with
any requirements or regulations of the County Agency or with the terms of any
permit issued by the County Agency shall not relieve the owner nor other person
of the obligation of complying with all requirements and regulations of the
township even though the latter may be more restrictive than those of the
County Agency.
   (D)   No premises, public or private, shall be exempt from payment of the
connection charges and sewage disposal and treatment charges hereinbefore
established. The township shall pay all the charges with respect to the
township property connected to public sewers.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.04 PUBLIC SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Neither the township nor any other person shall connect any public
sewer or system of public sewers to any county sewer, or to any township sewer
which is connected directly or indirectly to any county sewer without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the county and no other person, other than the
township shall connect any public sewer or system of public sewers to any
county sewer or to any township sewer without first obtaining written approval
therefor from the township. Each connection permit shall show the location and
extent of the work, information regarding the owner, the contractor, and the
engineer, and any other pertinent information as shall be determined to be
necessary. The county permit shall be obtained from the office of the County
Agency at G-4610 Beecher Road, Flint, Michigan, from which a fee will be
charged by the county except where the connection is made to verify the results
of an infiltration test.
   (B)   A test for water infiltration and air pressure testing of the public
sewer or system of public sewers shall be performed by the owner or contractor,
after completion thereof, in accordance with the procedures established by the
County Agency. When the party has determined that the sewer or system meets the
following requirements for maximum infiltration and air pressure testing, then
he or she shall arrange for the results of the tests to be verified by the
County Agency. Ground water infiltration at any time shall not exceed 250 U.S.
gallons per inch of pipe diameter per mile of sewer per 24-hour period. Air
pressure testing limits shall be as found in County Standard Specifications. It
shall be the responsibility of the township or other party constructing the
sewer or sewer system to make whatever corrections may be necessary to the same
to meet the infiltration requirements prior to using the county sewers or the
township sewers to which connection is made. If, in the opinion of the County
Agency, ground water conditions at the time of the test would not provide a
conclusive test of the extent of infiltration, then an exfiltration test shall
be required. If an exfiltration test is determined to be necessary, the maximum
exfiltration rate shall be the same as that permitted for infiltration.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No building sewer shall be directly connected to any sanitary sewer by
any person without first obtaining a permit therefor from the township. The
party to whom the permits are issued shall be responsible for notifying the
county at least 24 hours in advance of the date and time when such a connection
is to be made so that proper inspection of same can be made.
   (B)   All connections to sanitary sewers shall be made in a workmanlike
manner and in accordance with the procedures established by the County Agency
and the township.
   (C)   Building sewers from the lateral sewer in the street or easement to
within 5 feet from the house shall be:
      (1)   Four-inch or 6-inch diameter C-200 vitrified sewer pipe with tylox
(TypeB) wedglock (Types 2 and 3) or amvit joints or other County Agency
approved joint;
      (2)   Four-inch or 6-inch diameter, service strength, cast-iron soil pipe
with hot poured lead joint, or approved equal. All joints shall be tight and
when tested for infiltration, shall not exceed 250 U.S. gallons per inch of
diameter, per mile, per 24 hours. All sewer lines within 50 feet of a private
well and 75 feet of a semi-public well shall be cast-iron soil pipe with hot
poured lead joints or approved equal;
      (3)   Four-inch or 6-inch PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride), meeting the standards
CS 272 and ASTM 3665 and listed with the National Sanitation Foundation with
wall thickness not less than Schedule 40. Only approved solvent cements,
fittings, and transitions shall be used. The pipe shall bear the "hall-mark"
(nsf-DWV); and/or
      (4)   The transition joints shall be sealed by an approved adapter and
encased in concrete to provide a watertight seal. The building sewer inside the
building shall be plugged and remain plugged and watertight until the time as
the plumbing is carried on to the first floor, the basement backfilled and roof
is on the building, thereby providing that no water from the excavated basement
will enter the sanitary sewer.
   (D)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without being
licensed to do the work by the township and without first obtaining a written
permit from the township.
   (E)   All cost and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
county or the township from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   (G)   The size, slope, alignment, material of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the regulations and
standard specifications of the county and other applicable rules and
regulations of the State of Michigan and the township.
   (H)   Whenever possible, the building sewer should be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   All excavation for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the county and the township.
§ 52.06 INSPECTION AND PROTECTION OF SEWERS.
   (A)   The County Agency and other duly authorized employees of the County
Agency or the township bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the duly authorized employee of the county or the
township, shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the owner or proprietor, who shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the employee and the county or the township shall indemnify the owner or
proprietor against loss or damage to his or her property by the employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the owner or proprietor and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such as may be caused by negligence or failure of
the owner or proprietor to maintain safe conditions as required herein.
   (C)   No unauthorized persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the county or the township
system.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.07 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Each user whose premises are hereafter connected directly to a
township sanitary sewer shall pay the township its sewer connection charge
based on the Township Schedule of Fees and pay the county based on its Table of
Unit Factors established by the Genesee County Drain Commissioner's Office.
      (1)   Where the premises are connected directly to a public sewer or
sewer extension installed solely by special assessment or solely at the expense
of a subdivider or developer, the sewer connection charge, per unit, from the
time this chapter is passed shall be determined by the Township Board.
      (2)   In any event, every connection shall be charged on the basis of at
least 1 unit.
      (3)   In addition to the charges listed above, there shall be an
inspection fee for each connection to the public sewer as determined by the
county.
      (4)   The connection (tap-in) fee for each unit shall be, from time to
time, established by resolution of the Township Board.
      (5)   The monthly readiness to serve and commodity charges are
established by the county using its rates as set forth in its Table of Unit
Factors and as determined by the Genesee County Drain Commissioner's Office,
which may be amended from time to time. In addition, the township readiness to
serve and commodity charges are established by the Township Board and set forth
in the Township Schedule of Fees, which may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The foregoing connection charges on new construction shall be paid
prior to the issuance of a connection permit which may be issued by the
township or the county prior to issuance of building permit.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.08 SEWAGE TREATMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   Each user whose premises are heretofore or hereafter connected to a
public sewer shall pay the township a monthly charge for sewage disposal and
treatment as provided in this section.
   (B)   Where the premises are served by water, which is metered, the monthly
charge shall be invoiced to the user at a rate to be determined from time to
time by resolution of the Township Board. The monthly charge for water usage
shall be based upon consumption. Provided, however, that there shall be a
monthly ready to serve charge for each connection regardless of usage, and as
shall be determined from time to time and kept on file in the office of the
Clerk.
   (C)   Where the premises are not served by water which is metered, the
monthly charge shall be at the minimum rate based on county factors and as
determined by the Township Board.
   (D)   The foregoing charges shall be billed and collected as the Township
Board shall determine.
   (E)   The foregoing charges, including penalties, payable for sewage
disposal and treatment service to any premises shall be a lien on the premises
and on May 1 of each year, the person or agency charged with the collection of
the charges shall certify to the Township Treasurer any charges which have been
delinquent for 6 months or more, who shall enter the same upon the next tax
roll against the premises.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provision of this chapter shall be enforceable through the bringing of
appropriate action in any court having jurisdiction. Any violation of this
chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se, and each day of violation is deemed
to be a separate violation.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of disposing of sewage in a
manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subjected to a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for a
period not exceeding 90 days or both, the fine and imprisonment is at the
discretion of the court together with costs of the prosecution.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS
   The Appendix remains unchanged and is incorporated by reference as it set
out in full herein. A copy of Table of Unit Factors is in file in the Township
Clerk's Office at the Montrose Township Hall, 11444 N. Seymour Road, Montrose,
Michigan 48457 during regular business hours.
(Ord. 17-228, passed 9-19-2017)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Disposal
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   License
   
53.04   Renewal
   
53.05   Revocation and non-renewal
   
53.06   Inspection
   
53.07   Standards
   
53.08   Fees
   
53.09   Effective date
Collecting/Transporting Solid Waste
   
53.20   Purpose
   
53.21   Definitions
   
53.22   License
   
53.23   Standards for operation
   
53.24   Effective date
Costs Associated With Landfills
   
53.40   Purpose
   
53.41   Definition
   
53.42   Imposition of impact fees
   
53.43   Collection of fees
   
53.44   Use of funds collected
   
53.45   Effective Date
   
53.99   Penalty
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The Township of Montrose finds that the presence of Solid Waste Disposal
Areas located within the township have the potential, if not properly
maintained and operated, to have serious detrimental effects on the health,
welfare, and safety of the citizens of the township. These detrimental effects
can include: the potential for generation of blowing debris, dust, and odors;
facilitation of the breeding and propagation of vectors and pest animals; and
the potential for degradation of drinking water aquifers, soils and surface
water. The township further finds that, although Solid Waste Disposal Areas are
currently regulated by an “Act 641 Plan” adopted for Genesee County pursuant to
Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as amended, there
is a need for supplemental regulation to protect the health, welfare, and
safety of the public. It is the intent of the Township Board to exercise
supplemental local jurisdiction over facilities regulated by this subchapter in
a manner consistent with Act 451 and other relevant legislative enactment’s and
pursuant to the powers vested in it by the State of Michigan. Therefore, as a
means to provide for the public health, welfare, and the safety of persons and
property located within the township, the township deems it necessary to carry
out inspections to ensure that the Solid Waste Disposal Areas located in the
township are maintained and operated in the manner provided for in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, association,
corporation, public or private, organized or existing under the laws of this
state or any other state including a federal corporation, this state or an
agency department of this state, a municipality in this state, or a county in
this state.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residue, street cleanings,
municipal and industrial sludges, solid commercial and solid industrial waste,
and animal waste. SOLID WASTE does not include the following:
      (1)   Human body waste;
      (2)   Liquid waste;
      (3)   Ferrous or nonferrous scrap directed to a scrap metal processor or
to a reuser of ferrous or nonferrous products;
      (4)   Slag or slag products directed to a slag processor or to a reuser
of slag or slag products;
      (5)   Materials approved for emergency disposal by the DNR;
      (6)   Fly ash or other ash produced from the combustion of coal when used
in a manner enumerated under Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq.; and
      (7)   Other wastes regulated by statute.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AREA. An area of greater than 1 acre in size where
solid waste, as defined in this subchapter, is deposited. This includes any
area licensed as a disposal area under Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 324.11501 et seq.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a Solid Waste Disposal
Area in the township after 2-1-1992, without first obtaining a license for the
purpose from the township. It is a condition of the acceptance of the license
that the licensee shall be deemed to have granted permission for the township
or it’s duly authorized agent, to enter onto any property used as a Solid Waste
Disposal Area at all reasonable times for the purpose of conducting any
inspection required under this subchapter. Further, acceptance of a license
shall constitute acceptance that the licensee will comply with the standards
contained in §
53.07.
   (B)   Application for a license under this subchapter shall be made by
filing with the Township Clerk, together with the license application fee
provided for herein, an application for same on forms provided by the Township
Clerk. The applicant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The full name, address, and telephone number of the applicant. If
the application is a partnership or a corporation, the application shall
include the name, address, and telephone number of the general partner or the
registered agent of the partnership or corporation and/or the person having the
authority and responsibility for management of the applicant;
      (2)   The names and addresses of each and every person having an
ownership interest in excess of 5% in the applicant; and
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of an individual designated
as the agent of the applicant for purposes of communication with the township
in connection with all matters relating to the maintenance and operation of the
Solid Waste Disposal Area.
   (C)   Within 5 days after receipt of an application under this subchapter,
the Township Clerk shall request that the Township Supervisor and the Township
Building Inspector review the application and make a determination of the
ability of the applicant to meet the requirements of this subchapter. The
Township Supervisor and Building Inspector shall, within 20 days of receipt of
the application, make a written recommendation to the Township Clerk for
approval or denial of the license application, stating the reason for the
recommendation. Within 30 days of receipt of an application, the Township Clerk
shall refer the application, together with the recommendations of the Township
Supervisor and Building Inspector, to the Township Board for action at the
Township Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting. Notice of the time and place
of the meeting shall be given to the applicant by regular mail sent to the name
and address designated in the application as a designated agent of the
applicant at least 5 days prior to the meeting at which the Township Board will
consider the application. A copy of the recommendations of the Township
Supervisor and Building Inspector shall be sent to the applicant together with
the notice. Receipt of the notice and the recommendations may be waived by the
applicant in writing.
   (D)   No license application shall be disapproved for issuance by the
Township Board unless and until the applicant has received notice of the
proposed disapproval and the reasons therefor, and has been provided with an
opportunity to be heard with respect thereto at or before the meeting at which
the Township Board disapproves the application. If the license is approved, the
license shall be issued for a 1-year period.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 RENEWAL.
   A license issued under this subchapter may be renewed annually by filing
with the Township Clerk a new application as provided in §
53.03 and payment of the fees as required in §
53.08. The application for renewal shall be filed with the Township Clerk by
the thirty-first day of the tenth month of the current license.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.05 REVOCATION AND NON-RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any license issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the
Township Board and renewal of a license may be denied, based upon any false
statements made in the application for a license or renewal. The revocation or
non-renewal may also be made for the licensee’s failure to comply with the
provisions of any ordinance, law, or regulation, any 1 of which results in or
reflects the inability on the part of the licensee to maintain and operate a
Solid Waste Disposal Area in a safe and healthy manner.
   (B)   Before any license shall be revoked or its renewal denied, written
notice shall be given to the licensee stating the time and place for a hearing
before the Township Board, and further stating that the license may be revoked
or renewal denied, and setting forth the alleged grounds for the consideration.
At the hearing, an opportunity shall be given to the licensee to be heard by
the Township Board and to produce evidence and witnesses as the licensee may
choose.
   (C)   In the event of the revocation or non-renewal of any license issued
under this subchapter, the Township Board shall specify in the minutes of the
hearing the reasons for the revocation or non-renewal, and shall cause a copy
of the minutes to be mailed or given to the licensee.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.06 INSPECTION.
   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, the
township shall cause all Solid Waste Disposal Areas to be inspected on a weekly
basis in order to ensure compliance with the standards contained in §
53.07 and to ensure that the disposal of solid waste is being conducted in a
manner designed to minimize any detrimental impact upon the health, welfare,
and safety of the residents of Montrose Township and the public in general.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.07 STANDARDS.
   Any person operating a Solid Waste Disposal Area under this subchapter shall
comply with all of the following:
   (A)   The operation of the Solid Waste Disposal Area shall be conducted in a
manner such that no offensive odors shall be detectable at the property
boundary of the Solid Waste Disposal Area;
   (B)   The operation of the Solid Waste Disposal Area shall be conducted in a
manner which is not conducive to the breeding and propagation of vectors, pest
animals, and rodents;
   (C)   The operation of the Solid Waste Disposal Area shall be conducted in a
manner which is not conducive to the dispersal of solid waste from the Solid
Waste Disposal Area;
   (D)   The operation of the Solid Waste Disposal Area shall be conducted in a
manner which is not conducive to the dispersal of airborne soil particles from
the Solid Waste Disposal Area;
   (E)   The operation of the Solid Waste Disposal Area shall be conducted in
such a manner so as to minimize possible contamination of the surface waters;
   (F)   The operation of the Solid Waste Disposal Area shall be conducted in
such a manner so as to minimize any detrimental impact on drinking water supply
aquifers.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 FEES.
   At the time of submitting an application for a new license or renewal of an
existing license pursuant to this subchapter, the applicant shall pay to the
township a license application fee in an amount to be determined from time to
time and kept on file in the office of the Clerk during the entire term of that
license and any renewal thereof, the holder of any license shall pay to the
township a license fee an amount to be determined from time to time and kept on
file in the office of the Clerk. The license fees collected pursuant hereto
shall be used to offset the cost of administering this subchapter, including,
without limitation, the cost of any engineering, legal, and other professional
services necessary to monitor and inspect the operation of any facility
regulated under this subchapter to ensure that it is being operated in a manner
in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
COLLECTING/TRANSPORTING SOLID WASTE
§ 53.20 PURPOSE.
   The Township of Montrose finds that the activity of solid waste collection
and transportation can have a substantial adverse impact on the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the residents of the township. The township
further finds that, in order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare
of the public, and to prevent nuisances, it is necessary to regulate the
collection and transportation of solid waste and to require any person engaged
in the activity to do so only after first having obtained a license from the
township.
(Ord. 1992-3, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, association,
corporation, public or private, organized or existing under the laws of this
state or any other state, including a federal corporation, this state or an
agency or department of this state, a municipality in this state, or a county
in this state.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, municipal and industrial sludges, solid commercial and solid
industrial waste, and animal waste. SOLID WASTE does not include the following:
      (1)   Human body waste;
      (2)   Liquid waste;
      (3)   Ferrous or nonferrous scrap directed to a scrap metal processor or
to a reuser of ferrous or nonferrous products;
      (4)   Slag or slag products directed to a slag processor or to a reuser
of slag or slag products;
      (5)   Materials approved for emergency disposal by the DNR;
      (6)   Fly ash or other ash produced from the combustion of coal when used
in a manner enumerated under Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq.; and
      (7)   Other wastes regulated by statute.
   SOLID WASTE HAULER. Any person engaged in the activity of collecting and
transporting solid waste within Montrose Township, whether or not the activity
is conducted for profit.
   SOLID WASTE HAULER LICENSE. A license issued to a solid waste hauler
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-3, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 53.22 LICENSE.
   (A)   Licensure requirements.
      (1)   From and after the March 1, 1992, no person shall engage in or
conduct the activity of collecting and transporting solid waste within the
township, without first obtaining a solid waste hauler license as provided in
this subchapter. It shall be an express condition of each solid waste hauler
license that the waste hauler shall comply with all provisions of this
subchapter and any ordinance the township may adopt pertaining to the
collection and transportation of solid waste.
      (2)   Application for a license under this subchapter shall be made to
the Township Clerk by filing, together with the license fee, an application on
forms provided by the Township Clerk providing the following information:
         (a)   The full name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the application shall include
the name, address, and phone number of the general partner or the registered
agent of the partnership or corporation and/or the person having the authority
and responsibility for management on behalf of the applicant;
         (b)   The names and addresses of each and every person having an
ownership interest in excess of 5% in the applicant;
         (c)   The name, address, and telephone number of an individual
designated as the agent of the applicant for purposes of communication with the
township in connection with all matters relating to the licensure and operation
of the solid waste collection and transportation activities carried on in the
township;
         (d)   A description of the equipment, personnel, and procedures to be
utilized in the proposed business of collecting and transporting solid waste,
including a description of each vehicle and other items of equipment used in
the activity. The applicant shall include an affidavit specifying that each
vehicle meets all requirements mandated under any applicable federal, state,
and local laws, statutes, rules, and regulations, including, but not limited
to, Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., and
administrative rules promulgated thereunder, and that the vehicle has all
applicable governmental licenses and permits;
         (e)   A description of the geographic areas within the township in
which the applicant proposes to collect solid waste;
         (f)   The number of households in the township in which the applicant
proposes to serve;
         (g)   The number of non-residential premises located in the township
which the applicant proposes to serve, and a brief description and location of
each non-residential premises served;
         (h)   The percentage of the waste collected in Montrose Township in
relation to the total amount of solid waste the applicant collects;
         (i)   The name and address of each and every site to which the
applicant proposes to transport solid waste, and the percentage of the total
solid waste collected that will be transported to each site; and
         (j)   Maps showing all collection and transportation routes conducted
or utilized in the township, with the day and time the routes are conducted or
utilized.
      (3)   Within 5 days after receipt of an application under this
subchapter, the Township Clerk shall request the Township Police Chief and the
Township Building Inspector to review the application and the ability of the
applicant to meet the requirements of this subchapter. The Township Supervisor,
Police Chief, and Building Inspector shall, within 20 days of their receipt of
the application, provide the Township Clerk with a written recommendation for
approval or denial of the license application, stating the reasons for the
recommendation. Within 30 days of receipt of the application, the Township
Clerk shall refer the application, together with the recommendations of the
Township Supervisor, Police Chief, and Building Inspector, to the Township
Board for action at the Township Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
Notice of the time and place of the meeting shall be given to the applicant by
regular mail sent to the name and address given by the applicant in the
application at least 5 days prior to the meeting at which the Township Board
will consider the application. A copy of the recommendations of the Township
Supervisor, Police Chief, and Building Inspector shall be sent to the applicant
together with the notice. The notice and receipt of the recommendation may be
waived by the applicant in writing.
      (4)   The Township Board shall approve the application and issue the
license unless it appears that the public health, safety, or general welfare of
the township might be jeopardized, taking into consideration the following
standards:
         (a)   Whether the applicant’s vehicles meet the standards set forth in
this subchapter;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has submitted all the information required
under this subchapter, and the information has been verified as truthful and
accurate;
         (c)   Whether the applicant will be able to collect and transport
solid waste in a safe and healthy manner in compliance with the standards set
forth in this subchapter; and
         (d)   Whether there is any specific basis for concluding that grant of
the application would result in the creation of a nuisance or health hazard to
the township.
      (5)   No license application shall be denied by the Township Board unless
the applicant has received notice of a recommendation for disapproval provided
in division (A)(3) above, and has been provided with an opportunity to be heard
with respect thereto at the meeting at which the Township Board considers the
application.
      (6)   The solid waste hauler license shall, if approved under division
(A)(4) above, be issued. All licenses issued under this subchapter shall be for
1 year from June 1 of the year of issuance through May 31 of the following
year.
   (B)   Renewal. A solid waste hauler license issued under this subchapter may
be renewed annually by filing with the Township Clerk a new application as
provided in this section, and payment of the fee as required below. The
application for renewal shall be filed with the Township Clerk by the thirty-
first day of March for the year beginning the following June 1.
   (C)   Revocation and non-renewal.
      (1)   Any solid waste hauler license issued under this subchapter may be
revoked by the Township Board and renewal of a license may be denied if it is
found that the licensee made any false statements in the application for a
license or for renewal. The revocation or non-renewal may also be made for the
licensee’s failure to comply with the provisions of any ordinance, law, or
regulation, which demonstrates the inability of the licensee to provide solid
waste collection in a safe and healthy manner.
      (2)   Before any solid waste hauler license shall be revoked or its
renewal denied, written notice shall be given to the licensee stating the time
and place for a hearing before the Township Board, and further stating that the
license may be revoked or renewal denied, and setting forth the alleged grounds
for the action. At the hearing, an opportunity shall be given to the licensee
to be heard by the Township Board and to produce evidence and witnesses as the
licensee may choose.
      (3)   In the event of the revocation or non-renewal of any solid waste
hauler license, the Township Board shall specify in the minutes of the hearing
the reasons for the revocation or non-renewal, and shall cause a copy of the
minutes to be mailed or given to the licensee.
   (D)   License fees. At the time of submitting an application for a new
license or renewal hereunder, the applicant shall pay a license fee in an
amount as established from time to time by resolution of the Township Board.
The license fee shall be utilized for the purpose of offsetting the cost of
administration of this subchapter. The fee shall be returned to an applicant
whose application is not approved.
(Ord. 1992-3, passed 1-13-1992) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23 STANDARDS FOR OPERATION.
   (A)   All solid waste collected or transported by a licensee, employee of,
agent of, or contractor hired by licensee, shall be transported directly to the
transfer facility, processing plant or disposal area listed in the licensee’s
application. The transfer facility, processing plant, or disposal area must be
duly licensed and/or authorized in accordance with applicable law. No licensee,
employee of, agent of, or contractor hired by licensee shall create a nuisance
or permit solid waste to be transported or delivered to public or private
property which is not duly designated for the purpose under applicable law.
   (B)   For identification purposes, any vehicle used in the business of
licensee within the township shall display in a conspicuous place and manner
the licensee’s name and telephone number in letters 4 inches in height and
spaced to be legible from 50 feet.
   (C)   No licensee, employee of, agent of, or contractor hired by licensee
shall knowingly collect or deliver hazardous waste, as defined under applicable
law, to any transfer facility, processing plant, or disposal area.
   (D)   The licensee shall limit the collection and transportation of solid
waste within Montrose Township to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and
shall not collect or transport solid waste within Montrose Township on Sundays
or legal holidays.
   (E)   The licensee shall provide its employees, agents, or contractors with
training in all safety standards imposed by law or regulation in order to
minimize any detrimental effects of the process of waste collection and
transportation on the land or residents of the township, including spill
management.
   (F)   The licensee shall maintain its trucks in a neat and orderly
appearance, including keeping them well painted and washed at all times.
   (G)   The licensee shall ensure that all solid waste transporting units are
equipped with a broom and shovel for collection of spilled wastes.
   (H)   Licensee shall ensure that all its vehicles are free of mud, dirt,
clay, refuse, or other debris which may fall from the vehicle before entering
on any public road in the township.
   (I)   Licensee shall choose, within reason, routes leading to transfer
facilities, processing plant, or disposal areas, that minimize impacts on
bordering residential areas. Licensee shall give preference to paved roads in
formulating its haul routes. Licensee shall instruct its employees, agents, or
contractors hired by it, when operating their vehicles on dirt roads, to do so
in a manner which minimizes the creation of dust.
   (J)   While operating on any road, street, alley, or passageway, licensee
shall observe all traffic ordinances. Licensee shall operate its vehicles so
that a smooth traffic flow is maintained. The licensee shall conduct its
operations in a manner that will cause the least inconvenience and annoyance to
the general public and to property owners.
   (K)   A solid waste transporting unit shall not be parked in a residential
area in Montrose Township during the collection process longer than necessary
to collect refuse, unless it is parked more than 500 feet from adjacent
residential structures.
   (L)   If a licensee shall allow, cause, or permit solid waste to fall,
spill, be dumped, deposited, or come to rest upon a place which is not
designated for the purpose, the licensee shall immediately cause the solid
waste to be removed and transported to a site duly designated for the purposes.
(Ord. 1992-3, passed 1-13-1992) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 1992-3, passed 1-13-1992)
COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH LANDFILLS
§ 53.40 PURPOSE.
   The Charter Township of Montrose finds that it incurs considerable costs
associated with the operation of landfills located within the township. These
costs include damage to roads caused by transportation of solid waste to
landfills, decreased property values near landfill locations, and various
environmental aspects associated with the operation of landfills such as noise,
blowing paper, dust, odors, vectors, and pest animals. The township finds that
since it does not benefit monetarily from the operation of landfills within its
borders, it is left to bear the costs incurred by the presence of these
landfills. Therefore, as a means to generate adequate revenue to cover those
costs, the township deems it necessary to impose an impact fee on any solid
waste or municipal incinerator ash disposed of in a landfill located within
Montrose Township.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 53.41 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, municipal and industrial sludges, solid commercial and solid
industrial waste, and animal waste. SOLID WASTE does not include the following:
      (1)   Human body waste;
      (2)   Liquid waste;
      (3)   Ferrous or nonferrous scrap directed to a scrap metal processor or
to a reuser of ferrous or nonferrous products;
      (4)   Slag or slag products directed to a slag processor or to reuser of
slag or slag products;
      (5)   Sludges and ashes managed as recycled or nondetrimental materials
appropriate for agricultural or silvicultural use pursuant to a plan approved
by the DNR;
      (6)   Materials approved for emergency disposal by the DNR;
      (7)   Source separated materials;
      (8)   Site separated materials;
      (9)   Fly ash or other ash produced from the combustion of coal when used
in a manner enumerated under Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq.; and
      (10)   Other wastes regulated by statute.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 53.42 IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEES.
   An impact fee of $.10 per cubic yard shall be and is hereby assessed on all
solid waste or municipal incinerator ash that is accepted for disposal at any
landfall in Montrose Township which landfill is utilized by the public and used
to dispose of solid waste collected from 2 or more people. This impact fee
shall be assessed uniformly on all applicable wastes accepted for disposal. The
township reserves the right to enter into an agreement with an owner or
operator of a landfill to establish a higher fee than the amount referred to
above, which higher fee will supercede the fee imposed by this subchapter
during the time the agreement is in effect.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 53.43 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of a landfill located in the
township to collect the impact fees imposed under this subchapter. Unless a
more frequent payment schedule is provided for by a written agreement with the
township, the owner or operator shall pay the collected fees to the township by
the thirtieth day after the end of each calendar quarter of the township’s
fiscal year, which runs from January 1 to December 31. Thus, the collected fees
must be received by the township on or before April 30, July 30, October 30,
and January 30 of each year.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 53.44 USE OF FUNDS COLLECTED.
   All revenue collected under this subchapter shall be deposited in the
township’s general fund to be used for any purpose that promotes the public
health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of Montrose Township.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 53.45 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon publication hereof.
(Ord. 67, passed 6-18-1990)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person convicted of operating or maintaining a Solid Waste Disposal
Area in the township without obtaining a valid license therefor as required by
§§
53.01 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 and/or by imprisonment in the
county jail for up to 90 days.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-13-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Michigan Motor Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.02   Michigan Motor Carrier Safety Act adopted
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   The Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq., together with all subsequent amendments thereto, is
hereby adopted by reference.
      (2)   The township specifically adopts M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(c) of the
Michigan Motor Vehicle Code by reference.
   (B)   References in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code to "local authorities"
shall mean the "Township of Montrose."
(Ord. 140, passed 12-16-2003; Am. Ord. 12-196, passed 4-17-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 MICHIGAN MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption of the Act. The Charter Township of Montrose hereby adopts by
reference the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1963, Public Act 181 of 1963, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 480.11 - 480.21, as amended, and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   Notice to be published. The Township Clerk shall publish this section
in a manner required by law and shall at the time publish a supplementary
notice setting forth the fact that a complete copy of the Motor Carrier Safety
Act of 1963 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder is available
at the office of the Clerk for inspection by the public at all times.
   (C)   Effective date. This section, as amended, shall take full force and
effect upon publication.
(Ord. 1992-17, passed 10-19-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code are
adopted by reference, provided, however, that the penalty, except as provided
in division (B)(2) below, shall not exceed a period of incarceration in excess
of 93 days.
      (2)   A violation of M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(c) of the Michigan Motor
Vehicle Code as adopted in § 70.01 shall be punishable by 1 or more of the
following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 360 hours;
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days;
         (c)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Ord. 140, passed 12-16-2003; Am. Ord. 12-196, passed 4-17-2012)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   DISABLED VEHICLES
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE OPERATION
      
93.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   FIRE CONTROL
      
97.   PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
98.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 90: DISABLED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Disabled motor vehicles regulated
   
90.02   Definition
   
90.03   Disabled motor vehicle prohibited on streets
   
90.04   Disabled motor vehicle residential areas
   
90.05   Authorized township official
   
90.06   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED.
   No person shall permit any disabled motor vehicle, as hereinafter defined,
to be parked, placed, or allowed to remain within the Township of Montrose in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle which is dismantled, in whole or in part, and/or
which is mechanically unable to operate as the result of a mechanical defect or
malfunction. The absence of minor and non-essential parts such as antennae,
ornaments, hub caps, and the like, shall not cause a vehicle to be deemed
dismantled and thereby disabled. Any vehicle which is not currently licensed or
is not capable of being licensed for operation on the rights-of-way of the
streets, alleys, or highways of the township shall be deemed disabled.
      (2)   An unlicensed vehicle in operating order owned by a duly licensed
new or used car dealer and located on the regular premises of the dealer for
the purpose of its sale or delivery shall not be deemed to be a disabled motor
vehicle for the purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   An unlicensed vehicle or vehicle which is mechanically unable to
operate is permitted to be stored in the commercially zoned areas of the
township where the property owner operates a licensed auto repair shop and the
property has all zoning approvals necessary. All vehicles stored in accordance
with this section regarding licensed auto repair shops must be stored in
completely enclosed buildings or behind fences at least 7 feet high and so
arranged as to keep the disabled vehicles from the view of persons on public
streets, on rights-of-way and from view by occupants of adjacent dwellings, if
any.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995)
§ 90.03 DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED ON STREETS.
   Disabled motor vehicles, as herein defined, shall not be permitted on the
rights-of-way of the streets, alleys, or highways or other public places of the
township; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to the
towing or similar transportation of the vehicles; and provided, further, up to
48 hours from the time of disability shall be permitted for the removal or
servicing of the disabled vehicle in an emergency caused by an accident or
sudden breakdown of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995)
§ 90.04 DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a disabled motor vehicle
or any parts of a motor vehicle shall not be parked or stored in the front,
side, or rear yards of any parcel of land in the township which is zoned
residential unless exempted by §
90.02.
   (B)   On any parcel of land in the township which is zoned residential, a
disabled motor vehicle or parts of motor vehicles may be kept in an entirely
enclosed structure; provided, however, that the tearing down, stripping, or
junking of a motor vehicle shall not be permitted in the entirely enclosed
structure except for 1 such motor vehicle which is titled in the name of the
property owner or, if the property is leased, in the name of the lessee.
   (C)   On any parcel of land in the township which is zoned residential, 1
disabled motor vehicle or parts of motor vehicles may be kept on the property
and not in an entirely enclosed structure under the following conditions:
      (1)   The disabled motor vehicle is licensed;
      (2)   The disabled motor vehicle is titled in the name of the property
owner or, if the property is leased, in the name of the lessee;
      (3)   The disabled motor vehicle is in the process of being repaired;
      (4)   The repairs are being actively pursued;
      (5)   There is no entirely enclosed structure on the property in which
the disabled motor vehicle can be parked or stored while the repairs are being
made; and
      (6)   The disabled vehicle is parked or stored in such a place on the
property as to make the vehicle hidden from public view as much as reasonably
possible.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL.
   The Township Building Inspector, the Township Zoning Administrator, and the
Township Code Enforcement Officer, if any, are, in addition to any police
officer of the township, authorized township officials as defined in Ordinance
1995-2 for purposes of enforcing this chapter and issuing municipal civil
infraction citations and municipal civil infraction violation notices for
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995)
§ 90.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 6-26-1995.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter or of any lawful order
of the administrative official, board of appeals or the Township Board issued
in pursuance of this chapter, in addition to any action available to abate a
nuisance in circuit court, shall be deemed a civil infraction and punishable by
a fine of up to $500 and/or any other equitable relief as ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) above, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the provisions of this
code, or any ordinance, shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day
that the condition continues to exist.
(Ord. 1995-6, passed 6-9-1995; Am. Ord. 135, passed 1-16-2002; Am. Ord. 22-001-
90.99, passed 6-22-2022)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definitions of cemetery burial spaces and lots
   
91.03   Sale of burial spaces or lots; resident and non-resident
   
91.04   Cemetery fees
   
91.05   Headstones and memorials
   
91.06   Interment, disinterment, and reinterment regulations
   
91.07   Cemetery maintenance and care
   
91.08   Repurchase of cemetery spaces or lots
   
91.09   Records
   
91.10   General regulations
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Charter Township of Montrose
Cemetery Ordinance”.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS OF CEMETERY BURIAL SPACES AND LOTS.
   (A)   An adult burial space consists of land 4 feet wide and 8 feet long. An
adult burial is any burial that involves a burial box greater than 4 feet in
length.
   (B)   A stillborn, infant, or child burial space consists of land 4 feet
wide and 4 feet long. A stillborn, infant, or child burial is any burial that
involves a burial box 4 feet or less.
   (C)   A cremains burial space consists of land 4 feet wide and 4 feet long.
A cremains burial is the burial of ashes of a cremated body.
   (D)   A cemetery lot shall consist of space sufficient to accommodate 1, 2,
or 4 burial spaces.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 91.03 SALE OF BURIAL SPACES OR LOTS; RESIDENT AND NON-RESIDENT.
   (A)   Resident cemetery burial spaces or lots shall be sold only to
residents of Montrose Township, at the current resident rate, and non-resident
burial spaces or lots may be sold to anyone at the current non-resident rate.
If an individual is not satisfied with the decision of the Township Clerk, then
that person may appeal to the Township Board.
   (B)   All sales shall be recorded on a form approved by the Township Board.
The form grants only the right of burial and does not convey any other right to
the lot or burial space sold. The Township Clerk’s office shall complete the
form. The re-sale or transfer of burial lots is not allowed, except for estate
settlements. Only the township has the right to re-purchase a burial lot. The
price to be paid by the township to the purchaser for the burial lot is the
same price that the purchaser paid to buy the burial lot.
   (C)   Burial rights may only be changed if the Township Clerk assigns a new
burial permit to replace an original, endorses the new permit, and officially
records the transaction. At this time, the Clerk’s office should issue the new
permit to the assignee and cancel the original permit.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 154, passed 3-21-2007; Am. Ord. 10-185,
passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-191, passed 5-17-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 CEMETERY FEES.
   (A)   All fees shall be established and amended from time to time by
Resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   The opening and closing of any burial space, before or after a burial,
including the interment of cremains, shall have a Monday through Friday fee and
an increased fee for Saturdays and Sundays. No holiday burials.
   (C)   Fees shall be paid to the Treasurer’s Department and deposited by the
Township Treasurer in the appropriate account.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 91.05 HEADSTONES AND MEMORIALS.
   (A)   All permanent headstones and other memorials must be made of stone or
metal and must be located upon an approved foundation, constructed by the
Township and paid for by the owner of the burial site.
   (B)   Only 1 headstone and up to 2 flush mounted memorials shall be allowed
per burial space.
      (1)   The headstone location shall be at the head of the burial space,
parallel to the head of the burial space line and shall not exceed:
         (a)   Overall height not to exceed 48 inches;
         (b)   Overall width not to exceed 16 inches;
         (c)   Overall length not to exceed 60 inches; and
         (d)   Base not to exceed 8 inches high by 16 inches wide by 60 inches
long.
         (e)   Headstones shall not exceed the dimensions of the burial space
or lot (including the foundations).
      (2)   No flush mounted memorials shall exceed the boundaries of the
burial space or lot.
   (C)   No mausoleum shall be erected.
   (D)   Any headstone or memorials whether permanent or temporary must not be
offensive or improper, as judged by the Township Board. The owner of any such
headstone or memorial will be responsible for all expenses for removal.
   (E)   If a headstone or other memorial becomes unsafe in the opinion of the
cemetery sexton, notice of the condition will be sent to the last known address
of the owner, and the structure will be removed or repaired at the owner’s
expense.
(Ord. 146, passed 03-21-2006; Am. Ord. 154, passed 03-21-2007; Am. Ord. 10-185,
passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-191, passed 5-17-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 INTERMENT, DISINTERMENT, AND REINTERMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereafter provided only 1 body may be buried in a burial
space.
      (1)   A parent may be buried with 1 infant child;
      (2)   Two children may be buried in one space.
      (3)   A single cremation container may be placed over an existing vault.
   (B)   A maximum of 2 cremains shall be allowed to be placed in 1 burial
space, unless permission is otherwise granted by the Township Board.
   (C)   The cemetery sexton shall receive at least 36-hour notice of the time
of a funeral to allow for the opening of the burial space.
   (D)    The appropriate permit for the burial space and appropriate
identification of the person to be buried, where necessary, shall be presented
to either the cemetery sexton or the Township Clerk prior to interment. If a
permit has been lost or destroyed, the Township Clerk shall be satisfied, from
his or her records, that the person to be buried in the space is so authorized
before starting any interment.
   (E)   All burial spaces shall be located in an orderly and neat-appearing
manner within the confines of the space involved.
   (F)   All burials shall be within a standard vault made of concrete,
fiberglass, or other material approved by the County Health Department.
   (G)   No burial shall take place unless the burial space fee, the fee for
services required to open and close the grave, and all other fees have been
paid in full.
   (H)   No burial spaces shall be opened or closed except under the direction
and control of the cemetery sexton. This provision shall not apply to
proceedings for the removal and reinterment of bodies and remains; this matter
is under the control of the local Health Department.
   (I)   The township assumes no responsibility for errors in opening graves
when the errors are caused by others.
   (J)   Scattering cremains over a family lot or anywhere in the cemetery is
prohibited.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CEMETERY MAINTENANCE AND CARE.
   (A)   No grading, leveling, or excavating upon a burial space shall be
allowed without permission from the cemetery sexton.
   (B)   All flowers shall be planted within 18 inches of the marker or
monument. No shrubs, trees of any type may be planted. Any of these items
planted without approval may be removed by the cemetery sexton.
   (C)   The Township Board reserves the right to remove or trim any tree,
plant, or shrub located within the cemetery in the interest of maintaining
proper appearance and the use of the cemetery.
   (D)   Mounds which hinder the free use of a lawn mower or other lawn-care
device are prohibited.
   (E)   The cemetery sexton shall have the right and authority to remove and
dispose of any and all growth emblems, displays, or containers that have become
unsightly, a source of litter, or a maintenance problem, as determined by the
cemetery sexton.
   (F)   Surfaces other than earth or sod are prohibited.
   (G)   Dried flowers, wreaths, papers, flower containers, and all other
refuse must be removed or deposited in containers located within the cemetery.
   (H)   Cemetery care only includes seeding, top dressing, cutting and
trimming grass, shrubs, and trees, and the general upkeep of the cemetery.
Cemetery care does not include the maintenance of markers, monuments, or other
memorials.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 REPURCHASE OF CEMETERY SPACES OR LOTS.
   Upon written request by an owner, an owner’s heirs, or an owner’s legal
representative, the township will repurchase any cemetery lot or burial space
from the owner for the original price paid to the township.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 91.09 RECORDS.
   The Township Clerk’s office shall maintain records concerning all burials,
issuance of burial permits. Perpetual care funds shall be administered by the
Township Treasurer. The records shall be open to the public during reasonable
business hours.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 91.10 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The cemetery hours shall be determined by the Montrose Township Board.
   (B)   No one shall be permitted in the township cemetery at any other time,
unless he or she has permission of the Township Board or cemetery sexton.
   (C)   Domestic animals, except service animals, are not permitted in the
cemetery.
   (D)   No person shall obstruct any drive, walk, or alley.
   (E)   No person shall injure, deface, or destroy any burial space, marker,
monument, building, fence, seat, flower, tree, shrub, or other item in the
cemetery.
   (F)   Alcohol consumption is not permitted in the cemetery.
   (G)   No vehicles should drive faster than 5 mph on cemetery roads.
   (H)   Driving off the established roads is prohibited.
   (I)   Except as hereafter provided no person shall discharge firearms on
cemetery property which may be dangerous to human safety, unless otherwise
provided by law.
      (1)   Sworn police and law enforcement officials in performance of their
lawful duty shall be permitted to discharge firearms upon cemetery property.
      (2)   Members of official veteran’s organizations shall be permitted to
discharge firearms for ceremonial observances of federal holidays.
   (J)    Additional rules and regulations established by the Montrose Township
Board shall also apply and be posted at the cemetery.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 10-185, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-
191, passed 5-17-2011)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A 15-day notice of violation and correction order will be sent by the
Clerk’s office to the owner of record of the burial plot upon which the
violation occurs for any violation of this chapter. If no owner of record can
be determined, then a sign noting the violation may be placed on the burial lot
for 30 days. If no one contacts the township, then the Township Cemetery Sexton
will precede with divisions (C) and (D) herein.
   (B)   The Township of Montrose Cemetery Sexton may remove such violation and
if possible retain the personal property for 15 additional days, and then may
dispose of the same, for any violation not corrected within 15 days after
notice of violation and correction order.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
the chapter may be charged with a civil infraction and may be subject to a fine
of up to $500 for any violation not resolved by divisions (A) and (B) herein
above.
   (D)   Each day that a violation continues to exist may constitute additional
penalties.
(Ord. 146, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 154, passed 3-21-2007; Am. Ord. 10-185,
passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 11-191, passed 5-17-2011)
CHAPTER 92: OFF-ROAD VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
92.01   Purpose and intent
   
92.02   Designation
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   ORV operation
   
92.05   Revenue
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter is adopted to allow operation of ORVs on public highways within
the Township of Montrose, with the powers, duties, and limitations provided by
M.C.L.A. 324.81131 et seq. and subject to the terms and conditions of this
chapter and any future amendments thereto.
(Ord. 59-003-2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 92.02 DESIGNATION.
   This chapter shall be known as the Off-Road Vehicle Operation Ordinance.
(Ord. 59-003-2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. An operator's or chauffeur's license or permit issued to
an individual by the Secretary of State under Chapter III of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. 257.301 to 257.329, for that individual to
operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are attached to the license or
permit.
   FAR RIGHT OF THE MAINTAINED PORTION OF THE COUNTY ROAD. Indicates the
shoulder of the road when the roadway is improved by pavement, tar and chips,
concrete, or other similar material or indicated the extreme right of the open
portion of the right-of-way when the roadway is not improved by pavement, tar
and chips, concrete or other similar materials.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and be in actual physical control of the
operation of an ORV.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of an ORV.
   ORV. A motor driven off-road recreational vehicle capable of cross-country
travel without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. ORV or vehicle includes but is
not limited to, a multitrack or multi-wheel vehicle, an ATV, a motorcycle or
related 2-wheel, 3-wheel, or 4-wheel vehicle, an amphibious machine, a ground
effect air cushion vehicle or other means of transportation deriving motive
power from a source other than muscle or wind. ORV or vehicle does not include
a registered snowmobile, a farm vehicle being used for farming, a vehicle used
for military, fire, emergency, or law enforcement purposes, a vehicle owned and
operated by a utility company or an oil or gas company when performing
maintenance on its facilities or on property over which it has an easement, a
construction or logging vehicle used in performance of its common function, or
a registered aircraft.
   ROAD or COUNTY ROAD. A county primary road or local road as described in
section 5 of 1951 PA 51, being M.C.L.A. 247.655.
   SAFETY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued pursuant to 1994 PA 451 as amended,
M.C.L.A. 324.81129, or a comparable ORV safety certificate issued under the
authority of another state or a province of Canada.
   VISUAL SUPERVISION. The direct observation of the operator with the unaided
or normally corrected eye, where the observer is able to come to the aid of the
operator.
(Ord. 59-003-2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 92.04 ORV OPERATION.
   An ORV may be operated only with the flow of traffic on the far right of the
maintained portion of the county roads or local roads as described in Section 5
of 1951 PA 51, M.C.L.A. 247.655; provided that:
   (A)   A person shall not operate an ORV at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour, or lower if posted, and in no event shall an ORV be operated in a manner
that interferes with traffic on a road or street or at a speed greater than
conditions allow.
   (B)   A person possesses a license as defined in Section 25 of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Act 300, Michigan Public Acts of 1949; M.C.L.A. 257.25.
   (C)   Any ORV operated in the allowed portion of the road shall travel
single file, except when passing or being overtaken by another ORV.
   (D)   A person shall not operate an ORV on roads described herein unless
displaying a lit headlight and lit taillight.
   (E)   No person under the age of 18 may operate an ORV on roads described
herein, unless that person is in possession of a valid driver's license or
under the direct supervision of a parent or guardian and the person has in his
or her immediate possession an ORV safety certificate issued pursuant to Part
811 of the Act (M.C.L.A. 324.81131 et seq.), or a comparable certificate issued
under the authority of another state, or a province of Canada.
   (F)   No person under the age of 12 may operate an ORV on any road described
herein.
   (G)   Any person and any passenger in or on the ORV shall wear on his or her
head a crash helmet and protective eyewear approved by the United States
Department of Transportation. This division does not apply if the vehicle is
equipped with a windshield and a roof or roll bar that meets or exceeds
standards for a crash helmet and the operator and each passenger is wearing a
properly adjusted and fastened safety belt.
   (H)   Any ORV operated on a right-of-way shall be fitted with a throttle so
designed that when the pressure used to advance the throttle is removed, the
engine speed will immediately and automatically return to idle.
   (I)   The ORV is equipped with a spark arrester type United States Forest
Service approved muffler in good working order and in constant operation.
   (J)   The ORV is equipped with a braking system that may be operated by hand
or foot, capable of producing declaration at 14 feet per second on level ground
at a speed of 20 miles per hour; a brake light, brighter than a taillight,
visible when the brake is activated to the rear of the vehicle when the vehicle
is operated during the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset and 1/2 hour before
sunrise.
   (K)   The ORV is operated pursuant to noise emission standards defined by
law.
   (L)   The ORV shall not be operated on any state trunk line right-of-way or
on any street within the township unless allowed by township ordinance.
(Ord. 59-003-2020, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 REVENUE.
   All revenue derived from enforcement of this chapter shall be deposited into
the ORV fund, as described in section 5.2 of the Genesee County Off-Road
Vehicle Ordinance, and shall be distributed consistent with the authorizing
statute, M.C.L.A. 324.81131, as amended, as follows:
   (A)   Fifty percent to the Montrose Township Police Department for ORV
enforcement and training.
   (B)   Fifty percent to the County Road Commission. This revenue shall be
used for repairing damage to streets, county roads, or highways and the
environment that may have been caused by ORVs and for posting signs indicating
ORV speed limits or indicating whether streets, county roads, or highways are
open or closed to the operation of ORVs under this section.
(Ord. 59-003-2020, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter shall be responsible for a civil
infraction, and shall pay a fine of up to $500, and in addition may be charged
with and ordered to pay the cost of full restitution for damages to the
environment, a road, or other property resulting from that persons operation of
an ORV.
(Ord. 59-003-2020, passed 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 93: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Duty
   
93.03   Responsibility for costs
   
93.04   Collection and assessment
   
93.05   Effective date
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS. Any substance which is
spilled, leaked, or otherwise released from its container, which, in the
determination of the Fire Chief/Fire Marshal or his or her authorized
representative, is dangerous or harmful to the environment or human or animal
life, health, or safety, or is obnoxious by reason of odor, or as set forth in
the regulations of the Office of Hazardous Material Transportation, Research
and Special Programs Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, to
constitute a danger or threat to the public health, safety, or welfare; and
shall include, but not be limited to, substances such as chemicals and gases,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents, flammables, and corrosives.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 8-17-1992; Am. Ord. 123, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 93.02 DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of any person or any other entity which causes or
controls a leakage, spillage, or any other dissemination of dangerous or
hazardous substances or materials on any public or private property to
immediately remove the leakage or spillage and clean up the area of the leakage
or spillage in such manner as to restore the area involved to its condition
before the leakage or spillage. If the person or entity fails to perform the
cleanup, the township may do so, and may enter upon private property for such
purpose, after first giving the responsible person or entity notice of its
intent to perform the cleanup and to charge the person or entity for the cost
thereof.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 8-17-1992) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   Any person or entity who fails to comply with §
93.02 shall be liable to and shall pay the township for the costs and expenses
incurred by the township, including any costs paid by the township to any party
which it engages to perform any part of the abatement, cleanup, and restoration
of the affected area. Costs incurred by the township shall include, but shall
not necessarily be limited to, the following: actual labor costs of the
township personnel, including compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, cost of equipment operation, cost of materials
obtained directly by the township, the cost of any contract labor and/or
materials and any legal fees.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 8-17-1992; Am. Ord. 123, passed 6-21-1999)
§ 93.04 COLLECTION AND ASSESSMENT.
   If any person or entity fails to reimburse the township as above provided,
the township may bring any action in a court of competent jurisdiction to
recover the costs. In addition, if the leakage or spillage occurs on private
property and the person or entity responsible for the costs is the owner of the
property on which the leakage or spillage and the cleanup occurs, the township
shall have the right and power to add any and all costs of the cleanup and
restoration to the tax roll for the property, and to levy and collect the costs
in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection of real property
taxes.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 8-17-1992)
§ 93.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon the date of its publication
following its final passage.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 8-17-1992)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, corporation, or other legal entity who
violates this chapter shall, in addition to any financial responsibility
provided for herein, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not
more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the
fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 8-17-1992)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Noise
    
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Anti-noise regulations
   
94.03   Effective date
Storage of Junk/Garbage
   
94.15   Legislative findings
   
94.16   Definitions
   
94.17   Unlawful acts
   
94.18   Exceptions
   
94.19   Prima facie proof
   
94.20   Effective date
Excavation Sites; Sanitary Landfills
   
94.35   Definitions
   
94.36   Purpose
   
94.37   Generally
   
94.38   Effective date
Noxious Weeds and Grass Control
   
94.50   Title
   
94.51   Definition
   
94.52   Enforcement
   
94.53   Duties of owners
   
94.54   Noxious weeds and grass growth prohibited
   
94.55   Noncompliance; means of eradication by township
   
94.56   Notice requirements
Offensive Odors
   94.70   Purpose
   94.71   Offensive odor defined
   94.72   Prohibition
   94.73   Exceptions
   94.74   Odor nuisance determination
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances per se created by outdoor uses in connection with Class C liquor-
licensed establishments, see §
111.07(BB)
NOISE
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Township Anti-Noise
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 1988-12, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 94.02 ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General regulations. No person, firm, or corporation shall cause or
create any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud noise or disturbance, injurious
to the health, peace, or quiet of the residents and property owners of the
township.
   (B)   Specific violation. The following noises and disturbances are hereby
declared to be a violation of this subchapter, provided, however, that the
specification of the same is not thereby to be construed to exclude other
violations of this subchapter not specifically enumerated:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television, or other
electronic or mechanical sound-producing device, including any musical
instrument in such manner or with such volume as to unreasonably upset or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of other persons;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, or singing on the public streets
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school or church;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl, which emanates frequent
or extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or
repose of an person in the vicinity; such as allowing or permitting any dog to
bark repeatedly in an area where the barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property; and
      (5)   The operation of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded or constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other unreasonable noise including the noise
resulting from exhaust, which is clearly audible from nearby properties and
unreasonably disturbing to the quiet, comfort, or repose of other persons. The
modification of any noise abatement device on any motor vehicle or engine or
failure to maintain same so that the noise emitted by the vehicle or engine is
increased above that emitted by the vehicle as originally manufactured shall be
in violation of this section.
(Ord. 1988-12, passed 12-19-1988) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on 1-18-1989, being 30 days after
publication.
(Ord. 1988-12, passed 12-19-1988)
STORAGE OF JUNK/GARBAGE
§ 94.15 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   It is hereby determined that there exists on privately-owned parcels of land
within Montrose Township accumulations of junk and/or garbage and that the
accumulation of junk and/or garbage constitute a hazard to the public health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of Montrose Township for the reasons that
they provide a habitat conducive to breeding and nesting of rats, mice, and
other vermin and also that they contain objects with sharp edges and other
hazards which could injure small children who would be attracted to play
thereon without appreciating the danger thereof, and that the regulations
contained in this subchapter are the minimum regulations required to eliminate
the foregoing undesirable condition and protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985)
§ 94.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of trash, refuse, or litter, specifically
including, but not limited to, containers once containing edible, drinkable, or
usable materials, as well as dead animals (or parts thereof) and discarded
edible or drinkable items.
   JUNK. Any unused or unusable building materials, furniture, machinery,
appliances, or parts thereof, including inoperable motor vehicles which,
because of mechanical condition or missing parts, cannot be driven.
   RUBBISH. Waste paper, tinware or aluminum ware, tin or aluminum cans, tin or
aluminum cuttings, boxes, glass, straw, shavings, barrels, lumber, paper
cartons, brush, lawn cuttings, and hedge trimmings.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985)
§ 94.17 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Storing of junk. No owner, occupant, or possessor of land within
Montrose Township shall keep or permit to be kept at any time on the parcel any
accumulation of junk thereof, unless the same is within a completely enclosed
building.
   (B)   Storing of rubbish and garbage. No owner, occupant, or possessor of
land in Montrose Township shall keep or permit to be kept at any time on the
parcel any rubbish or garbage unless the same is kept within a closely covered
can or other metal, plastic, or rubber container designed for same and
sufficient to prevent entry by rats, mice, and other vermin.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to inventory on premises occupied by a
merchant licensed under M.C.L.A. § 205.53 and conducting a lawful business or
to the property of patrons of a lawful motor vehicle repair facility, furniture
or appliance repair facility, or gasoline service station, if left on the
premises of either for purposes of service or repair, nor does this subchapter
apply to junk yards which can be regulated under Public Act 12 of 1929, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 445.451 - 445.453.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985)
§ 94.19 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   In any litigation arising under this subchapter, testimony that any
furniture, machinery, appliance, or parts thereof have been observed in the
same place on at least 2 separate dates at least 4 days apart within any
calendar month shall constitute prima facie proof that the machinery,
appliance, or parts thereof are inoperable, unused, or unusable as defined in §
94.16. Likewise, in any litigation arising under this subchapter, testimony
that any motor vehicle, or parts thereof have been observed in the same place
for a period of 30 consecutive days shall constitute prima fade proof that the
motor vehicle or parts thereof are inoperable, unused, or unusable as defined
in §
94.16.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985)
§ 94.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 8-2-1985, being 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985)
EXCAVATION SITES; SANITARY LANDFILLS
§ 94.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCAVATION SITE. A site within the Township of Montrose where an annual
permit is presently in effect as issued by the Montrose Township Planning
Commission based upon the provisions of the Montrose Township Zoning Ordinance
being
Chapter 153, §§
153.255 through
153.261 of this code, as amended.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. Any parcel of land within the Township of Montrose used
for the disposal of solid wastes and operated in accordance with Public Act 451
of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 4-6-1983)
§ 94.36 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is declared necessary for the preservation of public peace,
health, safety, and welfare, in that it preserves, to the nearby residents,
peace and tranquility during the late evening and early morning hours, plus
Sundays and holidays, as well as eliminating excess noises and undesirable
disturbances during all hours of the day and night.
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 4-6-1983)
§ 94.37 GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator of any excavation site
or landfill to:
      (1)   Keep all access areas to the premises free of debris and litter;
      (2)   To prevent excess noises and undesirable disturbances; and
      (3)   To maintain the public health, safety, and welfare on the premises.
   (B)   All excavation sites and sanitary landfills, as defined above, shall
not be open or operated between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. during the
days of Monday through Saturday. Further, the excavation sites and sanitary
landfills shall not be open or operated during any hours on Sundays or
holidays, being: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day.
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 4-6-1983) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.38 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 5-11-1983, at 12:01 a.m., being 30
days following the publication thereof in the Tri County Citizen, a newspaper
circulating within the township, in its issue of 4-12-1983.
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 4-6-1983)
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASS CONTROL
§ 94.50 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Montrose Township Noxious
Weeds and Grass Subchapter.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 94.51 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Include Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders (any species of
Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis) hoary alyssum (Berteroa
incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior 1) and poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron),
poison sumac (toxicodendron vernix), common grasses and brush growing in height
exceeding 10 inches, together with all other noxious plants that in the opinion
of the Township Board and coming under the provisions of the Noxious Weeds Act,
Public Act 359 of 1941, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 247.61 et seq.), is regarded as
a common nuisance.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 94.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Township Supervisor, Township Building Official and the Township Code
Enforcement Officer, if any, are authorized township officials as defined in §
34.01 for purposes of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter and issuing
municipal civil infraction citations and municipal civil infraction violation
notices for violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 94.53 DUTIES OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, owners or occupants of land within the
township to cut and remove or destroy by lawful means all noxious weeds, grass
or other noxious plants as often as may be necessary to prevent weeds from
becoming a detriment to public health.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 94.54 NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASS GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying any land within the township shall
permit or maintain any growth of noxious weeds; or any growth of grass or other
rank vegetation to a height greater than 10 inches on the average, either:
      (1)   Within platted subdivisions in which buildings have been erected
upon 60% or more of the lots; or
      (2)   On non-platted parcels of land along improved streets or private
drives, in common usage within the township, to a depth of 165 feet or the
depth of the lot, whichever is the lesser.
   (B)   All persons owning or occupying land within the township shall destroy
said weeds before they reach a seed-bearing stage, and to prevent said weeds
from perpetuating themselves and from becoming a detriment to public health.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to weeds or grasses in fields
devoted and used for agricultural purposes including but not limited to growing
any small grain crop such as wheat, oats, barley or rye; nor shall it apply to
any flower or vegetable gardens.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.55 NONCOMPLIANCE; MEANS OF ERADICATION BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   The township may enforce this subchapter by the issuance of a
municipal civil infraction as defined in § 34.01 and be subject to a fine as
provided for in §
94.99, together with all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the township
has been put in connection with the infraction, including the cost of
prosecution, whenever the noxious weeds and grass exceed the standards set
forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the owner and or occupant of any land notified to abate a nuisance
resulting from a violation of the provisions of §
94.54, fails to abate the nuisance within 7 days from being put on notice of
such violation, the township may enter upon such land and destroy by cutting
with or without mechanical equipment any such noxious weeds or grass.
   (C)   All expenses incurred in connection with the cutting and removal of
any noxious weeds or grass, plus an administrative cost, as approved in a
Schedule of Fees, adopted and amended from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board, shall be paid by the owner or owners of such land. The township
shall have and place a lien upon the land for such expenses; such lien to be
enforced in the manner prescribed by the general laws of the state providing
for the enforcement of tax liens.
   (D)   The township shall keep an accurate account of all expenses incurred
with respect to each parcel of land entered upon in carrying out the provisions
of this subchapter and shall make a sworn statement of the account.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007; Am. Ord. 13-204, passed 6-18-2013)
§ 94.56 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General notice. The Township Clerk shall on or before May 15 of each
year give notice of the requirements and provisions of this subchapter by
publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the
township.
   (B)   Individual notice. Notice regarding the cutting and removal of noxious
weeds or grass from individual property shall be served by one of the following
ways for each occurrence:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
notice at the owners residence, office, or place of business with some person
of suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by regular first class mail, to the owner as
listed on the current assessment roll for the township;
      (3)   If the owner is unknown, by posting such notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises for 7 days prior to taking any action to abate the
nuisance.
(Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007)
OFFENSIVE ODORS
§ 94.70 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the township by prohibiting offensive odors,
protecting citizens from harmful air quality, and preserving the comfortable
and enjoyable use of property.
(Ord. 21-002-94.70 et seq., passed 8-17-2021)
§ 94.71 OFFENSIVE ODOR DEFINED.
   An odor is any smell, condition or thing that is foul or offensive to the
senses of a reasonable person; it is a nuisance if it unreasonably interferes
with the proper enjoyment of the property of others; an offensive odor includes
but is not limited to odors caused by:
   (A)   Animals;
   (B)   Stagnant pools or garbage;
   (C)   Chemicals or industrial activities;
   (D)   Burning garbage, rubber, and/or other materials or substances; or
   (E)   Growth, cultivation, and/or excessive use or consumption of marihuana.
(Ord. 21-002-94.70 et seq., passed 8-17-2021)
§ 94.72 PROHIBITION.
   Except as listed in §
94.73, a person is prohibited from causing or allowing the transmission or
emission of an odor from his or her property that:
   (A)   A reasonable person would consider an offensive odor;
   (B)   Endangers the public health or welfare; or
   (C)   Unreasonably interferes with another person's health, safety, peace,
comfort, or enjoyment of property.
(Ord. 21-002-94.70 et seq., passed 8-17-2021)
§ 94.73 EXCEPTIONS.
   Offensive odors do not include ordinary odors associated with:
   (A)   Cooking or preparing food; or
   (B)   Sanitary landfills and water/sewer treatment plants/facilities when
operated in accordance with federal, state, and local laws.
(Ord. 21-002-94.70 et seq., passed 8-17-2021)
§ 94.74 ODOR NUISANCE DETERMINATION.
   An authorized code official or his/her authorized designee may determine
that an odor violates §
94.72 by detecting an odor that he or she determines is exceedingly pungent or
foul and of such intensity that it does any of the following:
   (A)   Potentially causes distress, discomfort, or injury to a person with
ordinary sensibilities;
   (B)   Substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of residential
dwellings by a person of ordinary sensibilities; or
   (C)   Has the propensity to induce nausea in a person of ordinary
sensibilities.
(Ord. 21-002-94.70 et seq., passed 8-17-2021)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter or of any lawful order
of the administrative official, Board of Appeals or the Township Board issued
pursuant to this chapter, in addition to any action available to abate a
nuisance in circuit court, shall be deemed a civil infraction and punishable by
a fine of up to $500 and/or any other equitable relief as ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A), above, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the provisions of this
code, or any ordinance, shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day
that the condition continues to exist.
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 4-6-1983; Am. Ord. 1985-3, passed 7-5-1985; Am. Ord. 1988-
12, passed 12-19-1988; Am. Ord. 153, passed 1-16-2007; Am. Ord. 21-002-94.70 et
seq., passed 8-17-2021; Am. Ord. 21-004-94.99, passed 9-21-2021)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Montrose Township Five Year Parks and Recreation Plan adopted
Parks
   
95.15   Short title
   
95.16   Purpose
   
95.17   Definitions
   
95.18   Seasons of use and house of operation
   
95.19   Reservations; fees; charges and insurance
   
95.20   Unlawful acts or conduct
   
95.21   Enforcement
   
95.22   Reward
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 MONTROSE TOWNSHIP FIVE YEAR PARKS AND RECREATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Montrose Township Board hereby adopts the Montrose Township Five Year
Parks and Recreation Plan.
(Res. 00-8, passed 6-19-2000)
PARKS
§ 95.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Montrose Township
Park Subchapter.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 95.16 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the letter and spirit of Public Act 157 of 1905, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 41.421 - 41.425, as amended, known as Township Parks and Places of
Recreation, it is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate and control the
use of township-owned property designated for use as township parks.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006 ; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 95.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beer, wine, liquor or other beverage for human
consumption containing alcohol.
   BOARD. The Montrose Township Board.
   CAMPING. The overnight lodging or sleeping of a person or persons on the
ground or in any manner or in a sleeping bag, tent, trailer-tent, trailer
coach, vehicle camper, motor vehicle, or in any other conveyance erected,
parked, or placed within any park.
   FIREWORKS. As defined in Section 243a of Act 358 of the Public Acts of 1968,
being M.C.L.A. § 750.243, as amended.
   LITTER. All rubbish, debris, waste material, garbage, offal, paper, glass,
cans, bottles or any other foreign substances of every kind and description.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled by any means whatever,
including all devices in, upon, or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn, excluding wheelchairs or other ambulatory assistance
devices or devices moved exclusively by human power.
   PARK, PARK PROPERTY, and TOWNSHIP PARK PROPERTY. Any and all parks or
recreation areas now or hereafter established for the use by the public and
owned by the township.
   PARKING. Permitting a vehicle to remain standing, whether paved or not,
which is designated for public parking.
   PARKING AREA. Any off-street area, whether paved or not, which is designated
for public parking.
   PERSON. Any natural person and any corporation, partnership or other legal
entity.
   RECREATION COMMITTEE. That certain Committee established now or hereafter by
the Montrose Township Board to supervise, regulate and manage township parks.
In the absence of an established Committee, the Township Board shall be the
Committee.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 95.18 SEASONS OF USE AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Seasons of use. The parks shall be open for use by the public year
round. This schedule may be modified from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board. In the event of an emergency, the Township Supervisor may order
a park closed.
   (B)   Hours of operation. The parks shall be open on each day of the year
from dawn to dusk. The schedule of hours may be modified from time to time by
resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 95.19 RESERVATIONS; FEES; CHARGES AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Reservations for use and permits.
      (1)   Applications for a permit for reserved park space or facilities
shall be made upon forms to be furnished by the township.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by such fee as shall be
required by the township.
      (3)   In the event more applications for reserved space or facilities are
received than space is available, the applications shall be considered in the
chronological order received.
      (4)   Local organized athletic programs, leagues or other sport
activities, upon written request to the Township Board may be granted exclusive
use of a particular portion of a park during certain hours on specified dates,
all in order to facilitate and promote properly sponsored and supervised
recreational programs within the township.
   (B)   Insurance policy. Each person who may be granted such permission for
such exclusive use shall furnish a copy of an insurance policy minimally
providing $500,000 per person, $1,000,000 per incident and $100,000 property
damage, which policy shall name the township as an additional insured.
   (C)   Fees and charges. Fees and charges may be assessed for the use of any
park facility, land area, or program in accordance with the adopted fee
schedule by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 18-230, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 95.20 UNLAWFUL ACTS OR CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the park rules or
regulations as established by the Township Board and as amended from time to
time by resolution; or to violate any of the rules or provisions of this
subchapter. The Township Board, by written request, may modify or waive any
unlawful act or conduct for a special event held on park property.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 14-213, passed - -; Am. Ord. 18-230, passed 9-
18-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department and any other such
person as designated by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006 ; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 95.22 REWARD.
   The township offers a reward to any person who provides information leading
to the arrest and conviction of any person for the theft of park property, the
malicious destruction or damage to park property or the operation of
unauthorized motor vehicles on the township park pathways. The reward to the
individual shall not exceed $500 as determined by resolution of the Township
Board of Trustees for any incident that is of public concern or safety.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006 ; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found violating the provisions of §§
95.15 through
95.22 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, at
the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation shall continue is to
constitute a separate offense. Provisions of §§
95.15 through
95.22 may also be enforced by suit for injunction, damages or other appropriate
legal action.
(Ord. 149, passed 12-19-2006 ; Am. Ord. 10-183, passed 2-16-2010; Am. Ord. 10-
187, passed 9-21-2010)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Title
   
96.02   Definition
   
96.03   Permit
   
96.04   Fire regulations
   
96.05   Effective date
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Montrose Township Fire Control
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 22, passed 2-14-1966; Am. Ord. 10-186, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 96.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN FIRE. Any fire upon any woodlands, grasslands, field, or public right-
of-way within the township not wholly contained within an incinerator, outside
fireplace, grill, or other receptacle constructed for and suitable to the
purpose of the burning of combustibles and any fire which has been allowed
deliberately, negligently, or carelessly to spread from an incinerator, outside
fireplace, grill, or other receptacle constructed for and suitable to the
purpose of the burning of combustibles, upon any woodlands, grasslands, field,
or public right-of-way within the township.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-14-1966; Am. Ord. 10-186, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 96.03 PERMIT.
   No person shall start or have any open fire without first obtaining a yearly
permit as authorized and issued by the Fire Chief or his/her designee. The
permit shall state the address where the fire is to be started, the name of the
owner of the premises involved, the person starting the fire, and the person(s)
responsible for attending the fire. There will be no charge for the permit.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-14-1966; Am. Ord. 10-186, passed 7-20-2010)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 FIRE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall start or have any open fires upon any woodlands,
grasslands, field, or public right-of-way within the township whenever there is
danger of the fire spreading beyond the control of the person so starting or
having the open fire so as to injure, damage, or endanger the life, limb, or
property of another. Also, no person shall leave the open fire unattended by a
person of mature years until the fire shall have been completely extinguished.
   (B)   No person shall leave any open fire unattended until such time as the
open fire shall be completely extinguished. Further, open fires shall be
attended at all times by at least 1 of the individuals indicated on the burn
permit.
   (C)   No person shall start or have an open fire which because of smoke, ash
or odor shall be a nuisance or hazard to surrounding residents, property or
vehicular traffic.
   (D)   No person shall burn any noxious construction material, household
trash or any toxic or chemical material, such as by way of example tires,
paint, plastics or any construction material brought from off site.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable by up to 90 days in
the county jail, a fine of not more than $500, or both.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-14-1966; Am. Ord. 10-186, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 14-208,
passed 7-15-2014) Penalty, see §
96.99 
§ 96.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on 3-15-1966.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-14-1966; Am. Ord. 10-186, passed 7-20-2010)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished by a fine of not
more than $100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding 90 days, or
both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court; provided,
however, that the court may, in its discretion, suspend any sentence imposed
under this chapter and grant probation to any person convicted of a violation
thereof and the court may further, in its discretion, condition the probation
and/or suspension of sentence upon reimbursement to the township of any cost
and expense suffered or incurred by the township in extinguishing or attempting
to extinguish any fire started or had in violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-14-1966; Am. Ord. 10-186, passed 7-20-2010)
CHAPTER 97: PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   No marihuana establishments
   
97.99   Violations and penalties
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 18-232, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 97.02 NO MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Montrose Township hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments within the
boundaries of the township pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333
et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 18-232, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 97.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes allows or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of
the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
township to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper
remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the township incurs in connection with the
municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the township may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Enforcement
Officer of the township or by such other person(s) as designated by the
Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. 18-232, passed 12-18-2018)
CHAPTER 98: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Prohibition of dangerous buildings
   
98.04   Notice of dangerous building; hearing
   
98.05   Dangerous building hearing officer; duties; hearing; order
   
98.06   Enforcement hearing before the Township Board
   
98.07   Implementation and enforcement of remedies
   
98.08   Sanction for nonconformance with order
   
98.09   Appeal of Township Board decision
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Charter Township of Montrose
Dangerous Buildings Ordinance”.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure, residential or otherwise,
that has 1 or more of the following defects or is in 1 or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit which
does not conform to the approved fire code, and or the approved Michigan
Building Code, and or the approved Michigan Residential Building Code in which
the building or structure is located.
      (2)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment, vandalism, or other cause so that
the structural strength or stability of the building or structure is
appreciably less than it was before the damage and does not meet the minimum
requirements of the Housing Law of Michigan, Public Act 167 of 1917, as
amended, (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq.), or the Township's Building Code for a
new building or structure, purpose or location.
      (3)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse, and injure persons or damage property.
      (4)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure
have materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by the Housing Law of Michigan, Public Act 167 of 1917, as
amended, (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq.), or the Township's Building Code.
      (5)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fall
or give way.
      (6)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
      (7)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood, or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a harbor
for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful or immoral act.
      (8)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, or for other reasons, is unsanitary
or unfit for human habitation, is in a condition that the Health Officer of the
township or county determines is likely to cause sickness or disease, or is
likely to injure the health, safety or general welfare of people living in the
dwelling.
      (9)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and open at a door
or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
      (10)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Article 25 of the
Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, (M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2401 to 339.2518),
or is not publicly offered for sale by the owner. This division does not apply
to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies the Montrose Township Police Department that the
building or structure will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive
days. The notice shall be given to said Police Department by the owner or agent
not more than 30 days after the building or structure becomes unoccupied.
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with this chapter and the Housing Law of
Michigan, Public Act 167 of 1917, as amended, (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq.), or
the Township's Building Code.
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies the
Montrose Township Police Department that the dwelling will remain unoccupied
for a period of 180 consecutive days or more each year. An owner who has given
the notice prescribed by this division shall notify said Township Police
Department not more than 30 days after the dwelling no longer qualifies for
this exception. As used in this division, "secondary dwelling" means a
dwelling, including, but not limited to, a vacation home, hunting cabin or
summer home, that is occupied by the owner or a member of the owner's family
during part of year.
   ENFORCING AGENCY. The Charter Township of Montrose, through the Township
Building Official and/or such other official(s) or agency as may be designated
by the Montrose Township Board to enforce this chapter.
   TOWNSHIP BUILDING CODE. The building code administered and enforced in the
township pursuant to the Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code
Act, Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.).
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.03 PROHIBITION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or part thereof which is a dangerous building as defined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.04 NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDING; HEARING.
   (A)   Notice requirement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, if a building or structure is found to be a dangerous building, the
enforcing agency shall issue a notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building.
   (B)   Parties entitled to notice. The notice shall be served on each owner
of or party in interest in the building or structure in whose name the property
appears on the last local tax assessment records of the township.
   (C)   Contents of notice. The notice shall specify the time and place of a
hearing on whether the building or structure is a dangerous building and state
that the person to whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity at
the hearing to show cause why the Hearing Officer should not order the building
or structure to be demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (D)   Service of notice. The notice shall be in writing and shall be served
upon the person to whom the notice is directed either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records. If a notice is served upon a
person by certified mail, a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a
conspicuous part of the building or structure. The notice shall be served upon
the owner or party in interest at least 10 days before the date of the hearing
included in the notice.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.05 DANGEROUS BUILDING HEARING OFFICER; DUTIES; HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   Appointment of Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed
by the Township Supervisor to serve at his or her pleasure. The Hearing Officer
shall be a person who has expertise in housing matters, including, but not
limited to, an engineer, architect, building contractor, building inspector, or
member of a community housing organization. An employee of the enforcing agency
shall not be appointed as a Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Filing dangerous building notice with Hearing Officer. The enforcing
agency shall file a copy of the notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building with the Hearing Officer.
   (C)   Hearing testimony and decision. At a hearing prescribed by this
chapter, the Hearing Officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency, the
owner of the property, and any interested party. Not more than 5 days after
completion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall render a decision either
closing the proceedings or ordering the building or structure demolished,
otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (D)   Compliance with Hearing Officer order. If the Hearing Officer
determines that the building or structure should be demolished, otherwise made
safe, or properly maintained, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order that
specifies what action the owner, agent, or lessee shall take and sets a date by
which the owner, agent or lessee shall comply with the order. If the building
is a dangerous building under § 98.02(J) of this chapter, the order may require
the owner or agent to maintain the exterior of the building and adjoining
grounds owned by the owner of the building including, but not limited to, the
maintenance of lawns, trees and shrubs.
   (E)   Noncompliance with Hearing Officer order/request to enforce order. If
the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses to comply
with the order issued under § 98.05(D) of this chapter, the Hearing Officer
shall file a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Township
Board not more than 5 days after noncompliance by the owner and request that
necessary action be taken to enforce the order. The Hearing Officer shall file
the report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Township Board and
request that necessary action be taken to enforce the order. A copy of the
findings and order of the Hearing Officer shall be served on the owner, agent
or lessee in the manner prescribed in §
98.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.06 ENFORCEMENT HEARING BEFORE THE TOWNSHIP BOARD.
   The Township Board shall fix a date not less than 30 days after the hearing
prescribed in §
98.05(C) of this chapter for a hearing on the findings and order of the Hearing
Officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent or lessee in the manner
prescribed in §
98.04(D) of this chapter of the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing,
the owner, agent or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show cause why the
order should not be enforced. The Township Board shall either approve,
disapprove or modify the order. If the Township Board approves or modifies the
order, said Township Board shall take all necessary action to enforce the
order. If the order is approved or modified, the owner, agent or lessee shall
comply with the order within 60 days after the date of the hearing under this
section. In the case of an order of demolition, if said Township Board
determines that the building or structure has been substantially destroyed by
fire, wind, flood deterioration, neglect, abandonment, vandalism or other cause
and the cost of repair of the building or structure will be greater than the
state equalized value of the building or structure, the owner, agent or lessee
shall comply with the order of demolition within 21 days after the date of the
hearing under this section. If the estimated cost of repair exceeds the state
equalized value of the building or structure to be repaired, a rebuttable
presumption that the building or structure requires immediate demolition
exists.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.07 IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REMEDIES.
   (A)   Implementation of order by township. In the event of the failure or
refusal of the owner or party in interest to comply with the decision of the
Township Board, the Township Board may, in its discretion, contract for the
demolition, making safe or maintaining the exterior of the building or
structure or grounds adjoining the building or structure.
   (B)   Reimbursement of costs. The costs of the demolition, or making the
building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure, incurred by the Township to bring
the property into conformance with this chapter shall be reimbursed to the
Township by the owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
The cost of demolition, or making the building safe, or the maintaining of the
exterior of the building, structures or adjoining grounds includes, but is not
limited to, fees paid to hearing officers, cost of title searches or
commitments used to determine the parties in interest, recording fees for
notices and liens filed with the register of deeds, demolition and dumping
charges, court reporter attendance fees, and costs of the collection of the
charges authorized under this chapter.   
   (C)   Notice of costs. The owner or party in interest in whose name the
property appears upon the last local tax assessment records shall be notified
by the township assessor of the amount of the costs of the demolition, or of
making the building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building,
structure, or grounds adjoining the building or structure, by first class mail
at the address shown on the township records.
   (D)   Lien for unpaid costs. If the owner or party in interest fails to pay
the costs within 30 days after mailing by the assessor of the notice of the
amount of the cost, the Township shall have a lien for the costs incurred by
the Township to bring the property into conformance with this chapter. The lien
shall not take effect until notice of the lien has been filed or recorded as
provided by law. A lien provided for in this subsection does not have priority
over previously filed or recorded liens and encumbrances. The lien for the
costs shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for
property tax liens under the General Property Tax Act, Public Act 206 of 1893,
as amended, (M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 to 211.157).         
   (E)   Court judgment for unpaid costs. In addition to other remedies under
this chapter, the Township may bring an action against the owner of the
building or structure for the full cost of the demolition, of making the
building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure. The township shall have a lien on
the property for the amount of a judgment obtained pursuant to this subsection.
The lien provided for in this division shall not take effect until notice of
the lien is filed and recorded as provided for by law. The lien does not have
priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
   (F)   Enforcement of judgment. A judgment in an action brought pursuant to §
98.07(E) of this chapter may be enforced against assets of the owner other than
the building or structure.
   (G)   Lien for judgment amount. The township shall have a lien for the
amount of a judgment obtained pursuant to §
98.07(E) of this chapter against the owner's interest in all real property
located in this state that is owned in whole or in part by the owner of the
building or structure against which the judgment is obtained. A lien provided
for in this division does not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or
recorded as provided by law, and the lien does not have priority over prior
filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.08 SANCTION FOR NONCONFORMANCE WITH ORDER.
   Any person or other entity who fails or refuses to comply with an order
approved or modified by the Township Board, under §
98.06 of this chapter within the time prescribed by that section is responsible
for a municipal civil infraction as defined by Michigan law and subject to a
civil fine of not more than $500, plus costs, which may include all direct or
indirect expenses to which the Township has been put in connection with the
violation. A violator of this chapter shall also be subject to such additional
sanctions, remedies, and judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law.
Each day a violation of this chapter continues to exist constitutes a separate
violation.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 98.09 APPEAL OF TOWNSHIP BOARD DECISION.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Township Board,
under § 98.06 of this chapter may appeal the decision or order to the circuit
court by filing a petition for an order of superintending control within 20
days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. 19-233, passed 4-16-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   License fee exemption
   
110.03   Prohibited activities
   
110.04   License application
   
110.05   License fee
   
110.06   Revocation
   
110.07   Miscellaneous
   
110.08   Effective date
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, partnership, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of
soliciting the sale of, selling, peddling, or hawking any goods or services of
any kind, or taking orders for the sale of any goods or services of any kind
for delivery in the future or otherwise, from door to door, from a vehicle, or
by calling at or upon residences or by approaching persons on public streets or
in public places within the township limits without first obtaining a license
therefor from the Township Code Enforcement Officer and review and
certification by the Township Police Department that the person, partnership,
firm, or corporation has not been convicted of a crime which would present a
danger to the health, safety, and welfare of the public if such a person,
partnership, firm, or corporation were granted a license hereunder.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEE EXEMPTION.
   The following classes of persons, partnerships, firms, or corporations shall
be exempt from the license fee requirements of this chapter, but shall be
subject to all other requirements herein:
   (A)   Persons, partnerships, firms, or corporations selling on their own
premises only products produced, grown, or manufactured by their own labor on
their premises; and
   (B)   Boy scouts, girl scouts, schools, churches, and other charitable
nonprofit organizations.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 110.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person, partnership, firm, or corporation licensed hereunder shall:
   (A)   Allow his or her vehicle to remain standing in 1 place on any road or
public place for a period longer than 10 minutes in any 1 mile, while
conducting any activities under the license issued hereunder;
   (B)   Use any weighing or measuring device in the conduct of the business
licensed hereunder, or have in his or her possession any weighing or measuring
device unless the weighing or measuring device shall have been approved by the
appropriate official of weights and measures;
   (C)   Sell or offer for sale any goods purporting to be in quantities of
standard weight or measure, whether in original or other packaging, unless the
same shall be actually of the weight or measure purported; and
   (D)   Sell or offer for sale any unsound, unripe, or unwholesome food, or
defective, faulty, incomplete, or deteriorated goods, unless the food or goods
are so represented to customers.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A person, partnership, firm, or corporation desiring a license hereunder
shall make out an application for game on forms to be provided by the Township
Clerk, which forms shall, at a minimum, require the following information:
   (A)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant, or the applicant’s
owner(s) if the applicant is not a natural person;
   (B)   Any other name, address, and phone number of the applicant, or the
applicant’s owner(s) if the applicant is not a natural person, which the
applicant or owner has used within the last 10 years;
   (C)   Description of the goods or services to be sold;
   (D)   The manner in which the applicant plans to sell the goods or services
or solicit the sale thereof;
   (E)   The area of the township in which the applicant plans to sell the
goods or services or solicit the sale thereof; and
   (F)   Whether the applicant, or the applicant’s owner(s) if the applicant is
not a natural person, has ever been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor and
a description of each such felony or misdemeanor, the date and jurisdiction of
the conviction.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 110.05 LICENSE FEE.
   No license shall be issued hereunder until the applicant first pays the
license fee therefor as established from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 110.06 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the Township Board upon a
violation of any
of the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 110.07 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The holder of any license issued hereunder shall display a copy of the
license in a prominent location in the place where the business is conducted. A
copy of the license shall be prominently displayed in each vehicle from which
the applicant’s business is conducted and each person conducting the
applicant’s business on foot shall carry a copy of the license with him or her
and shall show the license to any person upon request.
   (B)   The license issued hereunder is not transferable in any way.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon publication.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation convicted of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty, in the discretion of
the court, of up to 90 days in jail or a fine of up to $500, or both.
(Ord. 1994-8, passed 8-15-1994)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose; compliance required
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Requirements and procedure for quota licenses
   
111.04   Transfer of licenses
   
111.05   Fees
   
111.06   Inspections
   
111.07   Outdoor uses in connection with Class C liquor-licensed establishments
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   This chapter is established in order to provide an orderly procedure for the
review and consideration by the township of any and all requests for licenses,
including requests for new licenses, transfers of existing licenses, placing
licenses in escrow, adding or deleting owners and other matters relating to the
sale or dispensation of alcoholic beverages within the township. All persons
shall strictly comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any intoxicating beverage for sale or dispensation that
is subject to licensure by the laws of the State of Michigan.
   PERSON. Any person or legal entity of whatsoever kind or nature.
   QUOTA LICENSE. A Class C liquor license that has yet to be assigned to any
person for which the township has authority to issue and assign. QUOTA LICENSE
shall also mean any license that may  be issued by the township, pursuant to
the Liquor Control Code of 1998, as amended, and any license transfer from
outside the township.
   TRANSFER LICENSE. An existing Class C, Class B, Private Club, SDD or SDM
license or other associated permit with any such license that has previously
been issued and is owned by an existing person, and which is subject to a
proposed transfer, placement in escrow, or the adding or deleting of names or a
change of ownership, except licenses from outside the township.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 111.03 REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE FOR QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring a quota license shall fully complete
an application, upon a form as prescribed by the township, which shall include,
at minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Type of license desired;
      (3)   Address and legal description of subject property;
      (4)   Educational background of the applicant and any individual having
any ownership interest or management responsibilities for the applicant;
      (5)   Employment history of the applicant and any person having ownership
interest or management responsibilities for the applicant;
      (6)   Previous liquor-licensed establishment experience for the applicant
and any person having ownership interest or management responsibility for the
applicant;
      (7)   Any criminal charges or convictions involving the applicant or any
person having ownership interest or management responsibilities for the
applicant;
      (8)   Any civil actions and/or judgments involving the applicant or any
person having ownership interest or management responsibilities for the
applicant;
      (9)   Credit history and any history of bankruptcy associated with the
applicant and any person having ownership interest or management
responsibilities for the applicant;
      (10)   The source of all funding, including verification through
furnishing bank records;
      (11)   Detailed plans, including a site plan and interior layout, showing
bar and seating locations, and an architectural elevation, with such plans
drawn to scale;
      (12)   Total construction costs for all improvements made to the
property;
      (13)   Detailed summary of prospective employees, including job
descriptions and names, addresses and birth dates of any employees, if known;
      (14)   The date any and all construction or other improvements will
commence;
      (15)   The date any and all construction or improvements will be
completed and business operations will commence.
   (B)   Application submittal. The application and all accompanying documents
shall be submitted to the Township Clerk, and the application fee shall be
fully paid at the time of submittal.
   (C)   Investigation and release of documentation.  
      (1)   Police Department investigation.
         (a)   The Police Department shall conduct an investigation, which
shall be completed within 60 days from the date of receipt of the application,
unless additional time is required.
         (b)   In the event additional time is required, the applicant shall be
notified in writing, as soon as reasonably practicable, with a new proposed
date for completion set forth.
         (c)   Additional requests for time may be made in the same manner.
      (2)   Release of documentation to Police Department. Upon request, the
applicant shall execute any and all necessary releases and furnish additional
documentation as requested by the Police Department, including but not limited
to, permitting release of employment records, medical records, financial
records, arrest and criminal records. Applicant shall promptly execute and
submit all releases requested.
      (3)   Building Department inspection of property and buildings. The
Building Department shall conduct an inspection of the property and buildings
to be used for compliance with all state and local building codes and
ordinances, and shall submit the report to the Township Board, within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the application, unless additional time is required
in the same manner as listed above.
   (D)   Recommendation. A recommendation for approval or denial shall be made.
Such recommendation for approval shall refer solely to the question of whether,
in the opinion of the Police Department, the applicant appears to have adequate
character and fitness and, in the opinion of the Building Official, the
property and all buildings comply with all state building codes and the
township code of ordinances. Such recommendation shall not mean that applicant
is entitled to the issuance of any license.
   (E)   Tentative approval. Upon recommendation of the Police Department, the
Board of Trustees shall consider the application. The Board may grant or deny
tentative approval. If tentative approval is granted, applicant shall be
entitled to the issuance and transfer of a license, provided the
representations made in the application and to the Township Board are fully
complied with, including but not limited to, representations made with regard
to the construction, commencement of construction, scope of the project, and
any other matters set forth in the application.
   (F)   Final approval. Upon request of the applicant having received
tentative approval, the Board of Trustees may consider whether to issue final
approval. Final approval shall be granted in the event that all the
representations and conditions, if any, of tentative approval have been
fulfilled, as determined by the Board of Trustees. After final approval and up
until the actual issuance of a license by the Liquor Control Commission of the
State of Michigan, the Township Board may rescind final approval in the event
of any of the following:
      (1)   Any misrepresentations or inaccuracies on the application.
      (2)   Failure to timely commence or complete construction or improvements
to the establishment, or failure to comply with the plans for the establishment
submitted with the application, unless plan changes have been expressly
authorized and approved by the Board of Trustees as part of the application
process.
      (3)   Conviction of a crime or the filing of any bankruptcy proceedings.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The transfer of licenses shall follow the same procedure as set forth
for quota licenses, except that any approval issued by the Board of Trustees
shall be considered final approval.
   (B)   SDD, SDM and drop and add space, transfer and issuance applications
shall be submitted to the Police Department.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 FEES.
   (A)   Fees shall be established by resolution of the Board of Trustees
periodically and incorporated into the fee schedule ordinance pursuant to the
provisions of such ordinance. All fees are payable upon application in full and
are non-refundable. Fees for escrow, transfer, addition or deletion of persons
or entities to a license, or change of names shall be the same amount as
provided for transfer. Relocation of an existing license to a new site shall be
pursuant to the fee set forth herein.
   (B)   The following initial fees are established:
      (1)   Class B, Class C, Tavern, Private Club   $1,000 per application
      (2)   SDD License    $500 per application
      (3)   SDM License    $500 per application
      (4)   Dance/entertainment   $150 per application
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall inspect periodically all liquor
establishments in the township licensed under the Liquor Control Act of the
State of Michigan, and report the results periodically to the Township Board
and, where appropriate under the Michigan Liquor Control Act, to the Michigan
Liquor Control Commission, for appropriate proceedings against a violator.
   (B)   Members of the Police Department shall carry an appropriate card
issued by the Police Chief or Township Clerk, clearly identifying them as
members of the Police Department and, as such, a Liquor Control Inspector, and,
when making an inspection, they shall present such cards upon demand for
identification by the owner or manager of every place inspected.
   (C)   Members of the Police Department shall have the right to inspect any
place in the township where alcoholic liquor is manufactured, sold, offered for
sale, kept for sale, possessed or transported, or where the member suspects the
same is being thus manufactured, sold, offered for sale, kept for sale,
possessed or transported. Whenever possible, all inspection reports shall be
made on liquor law inspection forms furnished by the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission, or on similar forms otherwise obtained by the Police Department and
approved by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 OUTDOOR USES IN CONNECTION WITH CLASS C LIQUOR-LICENSED
ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate outdoor uses in
connection with Class C liquor-licensed establishments, in order to provide for
the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the township, including but
not limited to, the protection of patrons of Class C liquor-licensed
establishments, the avoidance of blight upon surrounding properties, the
preservation of harmonious, aesthetic appearances, and the elimination of
conditions interfering with the peaceful enjoyment of surrounding properties. 
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DECK. Any structure constructed primarily of wooden materials that is
attached to and immediately abutting, for the entire perimeter on at least 1
side, the principal structure in which the Class C liquor-licensed
establishment is situated. The term DECK shall include any structure that is
not fully enclosed upon all sides at all times during use, including what are
commonly known as either screened or open porches.
      PATIO. Any structure consisting primarily of materials other than wood,
which, upon the entire perimeter on 1 side, is attached to and immediately
abutting the structure in which the Class C liquor-licensed establishment is
located. The term PATIO shall include any structure, as previously described,
that is not fully enclosed upon all sides at all times during use, including
but not limited to, both open and screened porches.
      TENT. Any temporary-style structure, consisting of a frame and/or poles
and a cloth-like material covering, which is attached to and immediately
abutting, along the entire perimeter on 1 side, the structure within which is
the Class C liquor-licensed establishment is located.
   (C)   Permitted outdoor areas. Service and consumption of alcoholic
beverages and the permitted areas for patron assembly shall be confined to the
permanent, fully approved structure primarily housing the Class C liquor-
licensed premises and decks, patios and tents, in compliance with the
provisions of this section and other township ordinances, and for which an
approved permit has been issued.
   (D)   Michigan Liquor Control Commission approval; conflict with Michigan
Liquor Control Commission Regulations. All license applicants shall fully
comply with all laws, rules and regulations of the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission, and shall procure all permits required by the Commission. Any
validly issued Michigan Liquor Control Commission law, regulation or order
shall be held to prevail over any conflicting provision of this section.
   (E)   Permit required; application; issuance. Application forms, as
prescribed by the Office of the Township Clerk, shall be fully completed and
returned to the Township Clerk, and a permit shall be issued prior to the
construction and/or use of any deck, patio or tent.
   (F)   Permit fee. A non-refundable application fee of $300 shall be paid.
This fee shall be subject to modification by resolution of the Township Board,
effective upon publication of any change in fees.
   (G)   Permit application site plan. A site plan shall be submitted, which
shall include the following:
      (1)   A scale of not less than 1 inch equals 50 feet.
      (2)   The date, north point and scale.
      (3)   Dimensions of all lot lines and property lines, showing the
relationship of the subject property to abutting properties, and describing and
identifying all structures and their uses within 300 feet of the proposed deck,
patio or tent. A note describing the location and distance of the nearest
residential area should be set forth.
      (4)   The locations, the dimensions and the nature of the uses of all
existing and proposed structures on the subject property.
      (5)   Existing site features, including but not limited to, trees,
drains, parking, trash receptacles, lighting and utility poles and lines.
      (6)   An area map or vicinity sketch showing the general location of the
site in relation to section lines or thoroughfare intersections, and
identifying residential areas.
      (7)   The name, address and telephone number of the architect, planner,
designer, engineer or person responsible for the preparation of the site plan.
      (8)    The existing location of all drives and parking areas.
      (9)    The location of any and all sidewalks and road rights-of-way.
      (10)   Scale drawings and dimensions for any and all easements situated
within 30 feet of the proposed deck, patio or tent, including a description of
the nature of the easement.
   (H)   Application review and approval by department heads. The Police Chief,
or his or her designee, the Fire Chief, or his or her designee, and the
Building Official and or Inspector, or his or her designee, shall review and
approve the permit application.
   (I)   Capacity of facilities.  
      (1)   Each proposed deck, patio or tent shall be rated and posted for
capacity by the Building Official and/or Fire Chief, or their designees, which
capacity shall not be exceeded.
      (2)   Any increase in the capacity from the deck, patio or tent would
require a review for the number of required exits, as per the state building
codes.
      (3)   If no additional exits are provided, a portion or portions of the
permanent structure shall be closed for patron use proportional to the
increased capacity resulting from the deck, patio or tent.
      (4)   A sufficient number of signs shall be placed in the area closed for
use to reasonably alert patrons that the area is closed while the deck, patio
or tent is being used.
   (J)    Maximum floor area for decks, patios and tents. No deck, patio or
tent, or combination thereof, shall be permitted that exceeds 50% of the gross
floor area of the fully enclosed permanent structure in which the Class C
liquor-licensed premises are located.
   (K)   Height restrictions.  
      (1)   No deck or patio, or attachment or appurtenance thereof, shall
exceed a height of 1 story.
      (2)   No floor area in any deck or patio shall be located other than
equal to or less than the elevation of the lowest floor elevation for the first
floor situated in the permanent structure in which the Class C liquor-licensed
establishment is situated.
      (3)   No tent shall be located with a ground level other than at the
grade level for the site.
      (4)   No attachment or appurtenance shall exceed 1-1/2 story in height at
its highest point.
   (L)   Pictorial or written representations. No deck, patio or tent shall
include, incorporate or have attached to it any photographic representations,
emblems, signs, or any form of pictorial or written communication.
   (M)   Flags, balloons and banners. No flag, balloon, banner or other similar
attachment shall be affixed to any deck, patio or tent.
   (N)   Parking. Additional adequate parking for rated occupancy, providing 1
space for each 35 square feet of gross floor area for the deck, patio or tent,
shall be provided, unless a portion or portions of the building is closed as
stated in division (I) of this section.
   (O)   Proximity to residential property. No deck, patio or tent shall be
permitted within 750 feet of residentially zoned property or property currently
used for residential purposes, as measured from a point nearest to the
residential use.
   (P)   Proximity to vehicle area. There shall be a minimum of 20 feet between
any deck, patio or tent and any hard-surface areas, maneuvering lanes, and
service drives.
   (Q)   Noise levels. Noise levels at all times, as measured at any of the
property perimeters, shall not exceed 70 decibels for any sustained period of 2
minutes or more. Noise levels shall not exceed 85 decibels, at any property
perimeter at any time for any period of time.
   (R)   Entertainment; music. Live entertainment and the playing of music
shall only be permitted from 12:00 noon to 10:00 p.m., exceptions to these
permitted hours may be granted on an individual request from the Township
Board.
   (S)   Fire ratings. All decks, patios and tents, and their materials and
appurtenances, shall conform fully to all applicable building and or fire
codes, and any regulations issued by the Building Official and/or Fire Chief or
the Township Board.
   (T)   Windstorm resistance. All decks, patios and tents, and any attachments
or appurtenances thereof, shall be certified, either through manufacturer
specifications or the opinion of a licensed architect or engineer, with seal
attached, to be suitable for withstanding winds of up to 100 miles per hour, as
constructed.
   (U)   Vehicle and site access. No deck, patio or tent shall be located so as
to interfere with the ingress and egress of emergency vehicles, including but
not limited to, fire apparatus, sanitation vehicles for refuse pick-up, and
vehicles in parking lot areas, reasonably avoiding vehicles and pedestrian
interaction.
   (V)   Size for ingress and egress. All decks, patios and tents shall have a
sufficient size and number of locations for ingress and egress as determined by
the Building Department and the Fire Department.
   (W)   Use during weather advisories and inclement weather. No deck, patio or
tent shall be used during any tornado watch, tornado warning or thunderstorm
warning, as reported by the National Weather Service, nor shall the same be
occupied during any thunderstorm or period of excessive winds.
   (X)   Board approval required; standards for approval. All applications
shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the Township Board. The Township
Board may request recommendations from Township departments. The applicant
shall have the opportunity to be present, to present information and to be
heard by the Township Board in connection with a review of the application by
the Township Board. The Township Board may issue reasonable conditions and
restrictions, in addition to those set forth in this section, which shall be
considered as minimum requirements. In acting upon a request for a permit, the
following information and standards shall apply:
      (1)   Compliance with fire codes, building codes and other laws and
ordinances of the township.
      (2)   The amount and nature of recorded police calls within the preceding
12-month period during ownership by the current liquor licensee.
      (3)   The nature of the anticipated use of the deck, patio or tent,
including anticipated crowd size, the provisions of entertainment, and the
anticipated noise levels associated with music to be played or entertainment to
be provided.
      (4)   Whether the safety and convenience of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic within the site and in relation to the access thoroughfares are likely
to be maintained.
      (5)   Whether a satisfactory and harmonious relationship is likely to be
maintained between the proposed site and existing and prospective development
of contiguous land and adjacent neighborhoods.
      (6)   Whether noise, light, odors and/or visual appearance from the
proposed deck, patio or tent are likely to have a detrimental effect upon the
quiet and peaceful enjoyment of surrounding properties, or upon their value or
the likelihood of development.
      (7)   Whether the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
township are furthered by the proposed deck, patio or tent.
   (Y)   Variances. 
      (1)   Variances shall be permitted from the minimum requirements of this
section by the Township Board, upon application and a demonstration of undue
hardship, practical difficulty, and the fact that the proposed variance will
not have a deleterious effect on the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Variance applications must be separately made, and a fee in the
amount of $300, or as established by Township Board resolution and published in
a newspaper of general circulation, shall be paid.
   (Z)   Revocation and suspension of permits.  
      (1)   Upon notice to the permit holder, and following a hearing before
the Township Board, any permit issued under this section may be revoked or
suspended, or may have additional conditions or restrictions added thereto.
      (2)   Reasons for action by the Township Board shall include, but are not
limited to: violations of this section or other township ordinances; the
existence of conditions meriting action upon the application of standards set
forth in division (X)(4) through (7) of this section; or upon the
recommendation of the Police, Fire, and Building Department, as a result of
public health, safety, and welfare concerns.
   (AA)   Preexisting decks, patios and tents. 
      (1)   Any preexisting decks, patios, tents, or other area for outdoor
service of alcoholic beverages shall be abated in use, or modified to comply
with all terms of this section, and an appropriate application and permit shall
be procured within 6 months from the date of adoption of this section.
      (2)   Such structures and uses shall be permitted as preexisting only if
a building permit and other appropriate permits, including electrical and/or
plumbing permits, are shown to pre-exist on the effective date of this section.
   (BB)   Nuisances per se. Any person, including but not limited to, a natural
person, a corporation, a partnership or other liquor licensee, or any person in
charge of such premises, who causes or permits any violation of this section
shall be deemed as permitting a nuisance per se. The costs of an action to
abate such nuisance, including actual attorney fees, shall be recoverable by
the township.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 94
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of
the court. Each day that a violation shall continue is to constitute a separate
offense. Provision of this chapter may also be enforced by suit for injunction,
damages or other appropriate action.
(Ord. 166, passed 5-20-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CRIMINAL CODE
      
131.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
      
132.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
133.   ANIMALS
      
134.   ASSAULT
      
135.   DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY
      
136.   DRUGS
      
137.   FIREARMS, DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND HUNTING
      
138.   FIREWORKS
      
139.   LARCENY
      
140.   LITTERING
      
141.   MINORS
      
142.   PUBLIC NUISANCES; MORALS
      
143.   MOTOR VEHICLES
      
144.   NOISE
      
145.   RAILROADS
      
146.   RESISTING ARREST AND OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
      
147.   TRESPASS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY
CHAPTER 130: CRIMINAL CODE
Section
   
130.01   Criminal code adoption; construction
   
130.02   Cost recovery
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTION; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The township hereby adopts the Criminal Code of the Township which
contains certain provisions to regulate conduct within the township to further
the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the township.
   (B)   The masculine gender as used throughout this code shall be deemed to
refer also to the feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   All criminal ordinances previously adopted by the township, and not
specifically repealed herein, shall remain in full force and effect and shall
not be repealed by the failure to re-adopt that ordinance herein.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.02 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The sentencing judge or magistrate shall have the authority to impose
court costs upon the conviction or the finding of responsibility for any
misdemeanor conviction or civil infraction violation.
   (B)   Costs imposed by a sentencing judge or magistrate shall reflect the
amount of actual costs incurred in the connection with a defendant's or a
respondent's case.
(Ord. 14-209, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful,
or the doing of an act is required, or the failure to do an act is declared to
be unlawful where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of
such provision shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by
both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Whenever in the Code any act which is prohibited or required and that
act or the failure to act is designated as a municipal civil infraction, that
act shall be punishable as provided in
Chapter 131.
   (C)   Any person who shall attempt to commit an offense prohibited by the
terms of this title and in the attempt shall do any act towards the commission
of the offense, but shall fail in the perpetration, or
shall be intercepted or prevented in the execution of the same, shall upon
conviction be punished by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a term
not exceeding 45 days, or by a fine not exceeding $250, or by both the fine and
imprisonment.
   (D)   No person shall combine, conspire, or agree with another or other
persons to commit any act outlawed by this title, or to commit any act which is
innocent in itself, but which becomes unlawful when done by the concerted
action of the conspirators.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 131: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Commencement of civil infraction action
   
131.03   Citations; issuance and service
   
131.04   Citations; contents
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Act No. 12 of the Public Acts of 1994, as amended.
   AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. A Montrose Charter Township police officer,
Township Building Inspector, Fire Administrator, Zoning Administrator, Code
Enforcement Official, or any other township employee specially designated in
writing by the Supervisor to issue municipal civil infraction citations.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which a defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized township official directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of 1 or more municipal civil infraction
violations by the person cited.
   TRAILWAY MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. A municipal civil infraction involving
the operation of a vehicle on a recreational trailway at a time, in a place, or
in a manner prohibited by any municipal ordinance.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 131.02 COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance of a
municipal civil infraction citation by an authorized township official with
respect to an ordinance violation designated a civil infraction directing the
alleged violator to appear in court.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 131.03 CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized township officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the First
Division of the 67District Court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the state court administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. Copies of that citation shall be retained by the
township and issued to the alleged violator as provided by the Act.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
township official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: “I declare under penalties of perjury that the
statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge, and
belief.”
   (E)   An authorized township official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and any required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized township official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction,
and if the Township Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
township official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (G)(2) of this section, an
authorized township official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon
the alleged violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building, or other structure a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building, or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner
of the land, building, or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 131.04 CITATIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do 1 of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail, in person, or by representation by the time specified for
appearance; and/or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the township;
or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That, if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      (2)   That, if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation.
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or by the township.
      (4)   That, at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
      (5)   That, at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in bold-faced type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in the entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator
on the municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If a defendant is determined to be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction the judge or district court magistrate making the determination of
responsibility may order the defendant to pay a civil fine not to exceed the
sum of $500, and, if applicable, in addition to the civil fine, the judge or
magistrate may order the payment of damages and expenses incurred as authorized
by § 8733 of the Act regarding the commission of a trailway municipal civil
infraction.
   (B)   If a defendant is ordered to pay a civil fine, the judge or magistrate
shall summarily determine the township’s costs of the action and tax the costs.
The township’s costs shall not necessarily be limited to the costs taxable in
ordinary civil actions and may include all expenses, direct and indirect, to
which the township has been put in connection with the municipal civil
infraction, up to the entry of the judgment. Costs of not less than $9 nor more
than $500 shall be ordered.
   (C)   In addition to the imposition of civil fines and costs as set forth in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the district court judge may exercise
his or her equitable jurisdiction as provided by § 8302 of the Act and issue
and enforce injunctive orders, order the recession or reformation of a
contract, and/or issue and enforce any judgment, writ, or other necessary order
to enforce the ordinance violated, and to issue any such orders necessary to
abate nuisances.
   (D)   In the order of judgment finding the defendant responsible for the
violation of a municipal civil infraction, the judge or district court
magistrate may grant a defendant permission to pay the civil fine, costs,
damages, and/or expenses imposed within a specified period of time or in
specified installments. In the event no period of time is specified and no
specified installments are set forth in the judgment all of the fines, costs,
damages, and expenses are due immediately.
   (E)   A failure to pay a civil fine, costs, damages, or expenses may result
in the township’s obtaining a lien against the land, building, or structure
involved in the violation in accordance with § 8731 of the Act, and may
subsequently be enforced and discharged as provided. A failure to pay a civil
fine, costs, damages, or expenses may further result in the court’s issuance of
an order to show cause requiring the defendant to show cause why the defendant
should not be held in civil contempt, or may further result in the court’s
issuance of a bench warrant of arrest for the defendant’s appearance.
   (F)   A defendant who fails to answer a citation for a municipal civil
infraction is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500,
or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a term not exceeding 90 days,
or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 132: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Minor in possession of alcoholic beverages
   
132.03   Furnishing alcoholic beverages to minors
   
132.04   False identification
   
132.05   Age restrictions for entry into establishments serving alcoholic
beverages
   
132.06   Public consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
132.07   Frequenting
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. As provided under Public Act 140 of 1957, as amended.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 132.02 MINOR IN POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Any person less than 21 years of age who purchases or attempts to purchase
alcoholic liquor, consumes or attempts to consume alcoholic liquor, or
possesses or attempts to possess alcoholic liquor within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the township shall be responsible for a civil infraction.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 18-229, passed 6-19-2018) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 132.03 FURNISHING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS.
   No person shall give or furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under
21 years of age, except upon authority of and pursuant to a prescription of a
duly licensed physician. Further, persons in charge of any establishment where
alcoholic beverages are sold or furnished for consumption, either on or away
from the premises, shall have the right at any time to demand of any person
offering to buy or drinking any alcoholic beverage proof that the person has
attained the age of 21 years.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years of age shall falsely represent
himself or herself to be 21 years of age or over for the purpose of purchasing
or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage.
   (B)   No person shall present false or altered identification to the
proprietor or agent or employee of a business licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages within the township.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 AGE RESTRICTIONS FOR ENTRY INTO ESTABLISHMENTS SERVING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   Except as may be provided by law, no person under the age of 18 years of age
shall be permitted to enter or remain in any dance hall, saloon, barroom, or
any place where alcoholic beverages are sold,
given away, or furnished, unless that person is accompanied by parent or legal
guardian. Further, no proprietor, keeper, or manager of any such place shall
permit any person under the age of 18 years to enter or remain in any such
dance hall, saloon, barroom, or any place where alcoholic beverages are sold,
given away, or furnished, unless that person is accompanied by parent or
guardian.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.06 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverage shall be consumed on any public street, park, or
any other public place, or private place open to the public, including stores,
drive-in restaurants, or other establishments not licensed by the state and
authorized to permit on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in any public dance
hall, toilet, cloak room, or appendage to any such dance hall unless the
premises are duly licensed by the State Liquor Control Commission. Further, no
person, co-partnership, or corporation engaged in the business of operating or
managing any public dance hall shall knowingly allow, permit, or suffer to be
consumed any alcoholic beverage upon the premises unless the premises are duly
licensed. Further, any owner or proprietor of such an establishment shall be
held criminally liable for knowingly permitting the acts of his or her manager,
servant, agent, or employee in violation of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 FREQUENTING.
   No person shall knowingly attend or frequent a house, room, or place where
intoxicating liquors are illegally sold, given, dispensed, or permitted
contrary to state law or local ordinance.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: ANIMALS
Section
   
133.01   Cruelty to animals
   
133.02   Noise
   
133.03   Running at large
   
133.04   Allowing animals to remain at large
   
133.05   Creating unsanitary conditions
   
133.06   Possession of exotic species
§ 133.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate, or
cruelly kill, or cause or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal. Further, no person
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall
inflict unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or willfully fail to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather. The
cropping of dogs’ ears shall be considered to be a mutilation or cruelty to an
animal within the meaning of this section, unless the cropping is performed by
a registered veterinary surgeon, while the dog is under anesthetic.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 NOISE.
   The following noises and disturbances are hereby declared to be a violation
of this section; provided, however, that the specification of the same is not
thereby to be construed to exclude other violations of this section not
specifically enumerated: the keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which
emanates frequent or extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet,
comfort, or repose of any persons in the vicinity, such as allowing or
permitting any dog to bark repeatedly in an area where that barking can be
clearly heard from nearby residential property.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring, or
having charge of a dog or cat to suffer or permit the dog or cat to run at
large.
   (B)   A dog or cat shall be deemed to be running at large when the dog or
cat shall wander unrestrained on any street, alley, park, or public place or
upon any private property without the landowner’s authorization. A dog or cat
shall be considered restrained if the animal is on a leash no longer than 8
feet and that leash is held by a person of sufficient size to control the dog
or cat.
   (C)   It shall be lawful for any police officer of the Montrose Charter
Township to seize any dog or cat running at large in the township in violation
of this section.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.04 ALLOWING ANIMALS TO REMAIN AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of any farm animal (including, but not limited to,
cattle, horses, mules, sheep, swine, goats, and chickens) shall allow such
animal to run at large upon the highway or other public place or upon any
unenclosed land within the Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.05 CREATING UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring, or
having charge of any dog or cat to collect, confine, keep, or harbor such
animal in a structure, pen, coop, yard, or otherwise so as to create an
unsanitary, unwholesome, malodorous, or other obnoxious or unclean condition.
   (B)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having charge of any dog or
cat shall keep the yard, pen, shelter, or building provided and maintained for
the confinement of such dog or cat or that is used for housing, harboring, or
keeping such animal clean by removing from the premises all manure and waste
matter from which odors may arise or which may act as vermin harborage. The
cleaning shall occur as needed to maintain sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.06 POSSESSION OF EXOTIC SPECIES.
   No person may possess as a “pet” any member of the felidae family (large
cats), including their hybrids, any bear species, nor any wolf-hybrid unless
the animal was possessed prior to July 7, 2000.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: ASSAULT
Section
   
134.01   Assault, battery
   
134.02   Domestic assault
   
134.03   Stalking
   
134.04   Ethnic intimidation
   
134.05   Threats made by computer, telephone or other telecommunication device
§ 134.01 ASSAULT, BATTERY.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall intentionally assault another by the unlawful offer
of corporal injury under such circumstances as to create a well-founded fear of
imminent peril.
      (2)   No person shall attempt to commit the crime of battery upon
another.
   (B)   Battery. No person shall forcefully, violently or offensively touch
another person or something closely connected with the person of another with
or without any resultant injury provided that the touching was intentional.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 13-205, passed 12-17-2013) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 134.02 DOMESTIC ASSAULT.
   No person shall assault and batter his or her spouse or former spouse, an
individual with whom he or she had a child in common, a resident or former
resident of his of her household, or an individual with whom he or she has had
a dating relationship.
   (A)   The term DATING RELATIONSHIP shall be defined as:
      (1)   Frequent, intimate associations primarily characterized by
affectional involvement or the expectation thereof.
      (2)   This term does not include a casual relationship or an ordinary
fraternization between two individuals in a business or social context.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section of the Montrose Township Criminal
Code is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93
days or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 134.03 STALKING.
   (A)   No person shall stalk another person.
   (B)   STALKING means a willful course of conduct involving repeated or
continuing harassment of another individual that would cause a reasonable
person to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed, or
molested and that actually causes the victim to feel terrorized, frightened,
intimidated, threatened, harassed, or molested.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, and with specific intent to intimidate,
harass another person because of that person’s race, color, religion, gender,
or national origin, or do any of the following:
      (1)   Cause physical contact with another person; or
      (2)   Damage, destroy, or deface any real or personal property of another
person.
   (B)   No person shall threaten, by word or act, to do an act described in
divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, if there is reasonable cause to
believe that an act described in such subsections will occur.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.05 THREATS MADE BY COMPUTER, TELEPHONE OR OTHER TELECOMMUNICATION DEVICE.
   No person shall maliciously use a computer or any service provided by a
communications common carrier with intent to terrorize, frighten, intimidate,
threaten, harass, molest, or annoy any other person, or disturb the peace and
quiet of any other person by any of the following:
   (A)   Threatening physical harm or damage to any person or property;
   (B)   Falsely and deliberately reporting that any person has been injured,
has suddenly taken ill, has suffered death, or has been the victim of a crime
or of an accident; or
   (C)   Using any vulgar, indecent, obscene, or offensive language or
suggesting any lewd or lascivious act.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 135: DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY
Section
   
135.01   Destruction of property
   
135.02   Graffiti; removal
   
135.03   Throwing missiles at devices or equipment
   
135.04   Property damage by discharge of firearms
   
135.05   Damage to or tampering with vehicle
   
135.06   Cutting, breaking, tapping, connecting line, wire or cable
   
135.07   Preparation to burn property
   
135.08   Arson
§ 135.01 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously mark, deface, mutilate,
injure, or destroy the personal or real property of another.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of $500 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than 93 days.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 135.02 GRAFFITI; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The existence of graffito and/or graffiti on any township-owned
property and on any non-township-owned property within the boundaries of the
township is expressly declared to be a public nuisance.
      (1)   Graffito or graffiti existing on property within the township is
subject to removal in accordance with the procedures of this ordinance or as
may otherwise be provided by law.
      (2)   It is the duty of both the owner of the property to which the
graffito and/or graffiti has been applied, and any person who may be in
possession or has the right to possess that property, to, at all times, keep
the property clear and free of graffito and/or graffiti.
   (B)   No person shall use any paint, spray paint, pigment, or similar means
to injure, deface, or destroy any public or private property including the
making of any drawing, inscription, design, scribbling, model, picture,
pictorial, graph, or other making commonly referred to as graffito or graffiti.
      (1)   Any person applying graffito or graffiti within the boundaries of
the township shall have the duty to remove the same forthwith. Any person
applying graffito or graffiti shall be responsible for the removal or for the
payment therefor. Failure of any person to so remove graffito or graffiti or
pay for its removal is a violation of this section. Where graffito or graffiti
is applied by an un-emancipated minor, the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) or
any other person legally responsible for the actions of that minor shall also
be responsible for the removal or for the payment therefor pursuant to M.C.L.A.
§ 600.2913; M.S.A. 27A.2913; and otherwise provided herein and by law.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any property marked
or defaced as defined in this section to remove or paint over the markings
after discovery of their existence so as to minimize the addition of further
markings and other blight upon the property. Any owner removing markings
pursuant to this section may be entitled to restitution in an amount determined
by the Court for the cost of removing these markings. That restitution is to be
paid by any person found responsible under this section for graffito and/or
graffiti.
      (3)   Property owners shall remove the graffiti, weather permitting, not
later than 10 days from receipt of a notice from the township, which notice
shall be in writing and delivered by first class mail addressed to the owners
of the property as shown on the latest tax roll at the address shown on that
roll. Notification may also be made by personal service.
   (C)   Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner so notified to
properly remove or paint over the graffito or graffiti after receipt of the
notice provided above, the township or its authorized representatives are
hereby empowered to enter upon the property for the purpose of accomplishing
abatement of the nuisance by removal or elimination of the graffito or graffiti
by the township.
      (1)   The costs incurred by the township in the abatement of the
nuisance, including a reasonable cost of administration, shall be billed to the
owner of the affected property.
      (2)   In the event that the costs of the abatement of the nuisance are
not paid by the owner within 90 days of the submission of the statement by the
township, the amount so billed shall be added to the annual real property tax
bill for the affected property and collected in the manner provided for the
collection of ad valorem real property taxes.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.03 THROWING MISSILES AT DEVICES OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall throw any stone, brick, or other missile at any motor
vehicle, train, building, street light, traffic control device, or outdoor
mechanical equipment belonging to another.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.04 PROPERTY DAMAGE BY DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall carelessly, recklessly, negligently, or willfully cause or
allow any firearm under his or her control to be discharged so as to destroy or
injure the property of another, real or personal.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.05 DAMAGE TO OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Intentionally, and without authority from the owner, start or cause to
be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or maliciously shift or change the
starting device or gears of a standing motor vehicle to a position other than
that in which it was left by the owner or driver of the motor vehicle;
   (B)   Intentionally cut, mark, scratch, or damage the chassis, running gear,
body, sides, top covering, windows, or upholstery of any motor vehicle being
the property of another, or intentionally cut, mash, mark, destroy, or damage
such a motor vehicle or any of the accessories, equipment, appurtenances, or
attachments thereof, or any spare or extra parts thereon being or thereto
attached, without the permission of the owner thereof; nor
   (C)   Intentionally release the brake upon any standing motor vehicle, with
intent to injure that machine or cause the same to be removed without the
consent of the owner; provided that this section shall not apply in case of
moving or starting of motor vehicles by the police under authority of local
ordinance or by members of fire departments in case of emergency in the
vicinity of a fire.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.06 CUTTING, BREAKING, TAPPING, CONNECTING LINE, WIRE OR CABLE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, break, tap, make any
connection with, read, or copy in any unauthorized manner any message from any
communication or transmission line, or make unauthorized use of the same.
   (B)   No person shall willfully and maliciously prevent, obstruct, or delay
by any means or contrivance whatsoever the sending, conveyance, or delivery in
Montrose Charter Township of any authorized communication or transmission.
   (C)   No person shall willfully and maliciously aid, agree with, employ, or
conspire with any other person or persons to do any of the acts prohibited in
this section.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 135.07 PREPARATION TO BURN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously prepare, arrange, place,
devise, or distribute a flammable, combustible, or explosive material, liquid,
substance, or device in or near property, owned by himself or herself or
another person, intending such property to be burned.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 135.08 ARSON.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously burn any personal property,
owned by himself or herself or another.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the County
Jail for not more than 93 days.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 136: DRUGS
Section
   
136.01   Possession or transportation of marijuana
   
136.02   Unlawful obtainment or sale of prescription drugs
   
136.03   Drug tools and paraphernalia
§ 136.01 POSSESSION OR TRANSPORT OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   A person who commits any of the following acts, and is not otherwise
authorized by this section or by state law to conduct such activities, may be
punished only as provided in this section and is not subject to any other form
of punishment or disqualification, unless the person consents to another
disposition authorized by law.
   (B)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in M.C.L.A. §
333.27954, a person who possesses not more than the amount of marijuana allowed
pursuant to state statute, cultivates not more than the amount of marijuana
allowed pursuant to state statute, delivers without receiving any remuneration
to a person who is at least 21 years of age not more than the amount of
marijuana allowed pursuant to state statute, or possesses with intent to
deliver not more than the amount of marijuana allowed pursuant to state
statute, is responsible for a civil infraction and may be punished by a fine of
not more than $100 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (C)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in M.C.L.A. §
333.27954, a person who possesses not more than twice the amount of marijuana
allowed pursuant to state statute, cultivates not more than twice the amount of
marijuana allowed pursuant to state statute, delivers without receiving any
remuneration to a person who is at least 21 years of age not more than twice
the amount of marijuana allowed pursuant to state statute:
      (1)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and forfeiture of the
marijuana;
      (2)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and forfeiture of the
marijuana;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and forfeiture of the
marijuana.
   (D)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described by M.C.L.A. §
333.27954, a person under 21 years of age who possesses not more than 2.5
ounces of marijuana or who cultivates not more than 12 marijuana plants:
      (1)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished as follows:
         (a)   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 or community service, forfeiture of the marijuana, and
completion of four hours of drug education or counseling; or
         (b)   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not more
than $100 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
      (2)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished as follows:
         (a)   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 or community service, forfeiture of the marijuana, and
completion of eight hours of drug education or counseling; or
         (b)   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not more
than $500 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (E)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in M.C.L.A. §
333.27954, a person who possesses more than twice the amount of marijuana
allowed pursuant to state statute, cultivates more than twice the amount of
marijuana allowed pursuant to state statute, or delivers without receiving any
remuneration to a person who is at least 21 years of age more than twice the
amount of marijuana allowed pursuant to state statute, shall be responsible for
a misdemeanor, but shall not be subject to imprisonment unless the violation
was habitual, willful, and for a commercial purpose or the violation involved
violence.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 13-201, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 22-
004-136.01; 136.03, passed 9-20-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.02 UNLAWFUL OBTAINMENT OR SALE OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Attempt to obtain a prescription drug by giving a false or fictitious
name to a pharmacist or other authorized seller, prescriber, or dispenser;
   (B)   Falsely represent himself or herself to be a lawful prescriber,
dispenser, or licensee, or, acting on behalf of any of them, obtain a
prescription drug;
   (C)   Falsely make, utter, publish, pass, alter, or forge a prescription;
   (D)   Knowingly possess a false, fictitious, forged, or altered
prescription;
   (E)   Knowingly attempt to obtain, obtain, or possess a drug by means of a
prescription for other than a legitimate therapeutic purpose or as a result of
a false, fictitious, forged, or altered prescription;
   (F)   Possess or control for the purpose of resale, or sell, offer to sell,
dispense, or give away a drug, pharmaceutical preparation, or chemical which
has been dispensed on prescription and has left the control of a pharmacist, or
has been damaged or subjected to damage by heat, smoke, fire, water, or other
cause and which is unfit for human or animal use;
   (G)   Prepare or permit the preparation of prescription drugs except as
delegated by a pharmacist; or
   (H)   Sell at auction drugs in bulk or in open packages unless the sale has
been approved in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.03 DRUG TOOLS AND PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, use, attempt to
possess, or attempt to use drug tools or paraphernalia.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COCAINE SPOON. A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for
which it is designed is to hold or administer cocaine, and which is so small as
to be unsuited for the typical and customary use of a spoon or baby spoon.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug enumerated in Public Act 368 of 1978, §§
7210 - 7220, as amended (commonly known as the Public Health Code).
      DRUG TOOL. Includes cocaine spoons, marijuana pipes, hashish pipes, roach
clips, or other implements or devices primarily designed or adopted for the
illegal administration or use of controlled substances.
      PERSON. Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, or
association. The term PERSON shall not include licensed medical technicians,
technologists, hospitals, clinical laboratories, or public officers or
employees engaged in the performance of their official duties.
      ROACH CLIP. A device used to facilitate the smoking of a marijuana
cigarette by attachment to the butt of such a cigarette.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011; Am. Ord. 16-221, passed 11-10-2016; Am. Ord.
22-004-136.01; 136.03, passed 9-20-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 137: FIREARMS, DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND HUNTING
Section
   
137.01   Careless handling of firearms
   
137.02   Discharge of firearms restricted
   
137.03   Pointing firearm at persons prohibited
   
137.04   Prohibited weapons in public places; exceptions
   
137.05   Firearms in vehicles
   
137.06   Devices releasing electrical current or the like prohibited
§ 137.01 CARELESS HANDLING OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly or heedlessly or willfully or wantonly use,
carry, handle, or discharge any firearm without due caution and circumspection
for the rights, safety, or property of others.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties elsewhere applicable for the violation of
this chapter and section, the court may suspend the hunting privileges of any
person convicted of violating this section for a period of not to exceed 3
years from the date of conviction.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Hunting. It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer in the
discharge of his or her duties, to draw, flourish, or fire any firearms in the
township within 450 feet of any occupied or unoccupied dwelling, house,
outbuilding, school property, church property, or business establishment.
   (B)   Target practice. Nothing herein shall prohibit the drawing,
flourishing, or firing of firearms at a duly licensed firing range, shooting
gallery, or on private property. Stationary target practicing shall be allowed
where there is a distance of at least 100 feet of any neighboring residence and
the firing is being done into a manmade device that shall not allow the passage
through or deflection of any firearm being used. Firearms firing shot at a
launched target shall require a clear shot fall area of at least 450 feet.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARMS. Includes weapons from which a dangerous projectile may be
propelled by using explosives, gas, or air as a means of propulsion; it shall
also include any type of bow and arrow, slingshot, or other similar mechanical
device.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.03 POINTING FIREARM AT PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally, without malice, point or aim any firearm, as
defined in §
137.02 above, at or toward any other person.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 PROHIBITED WEAPONS IN PUBLIC PLACES; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in possession of a knife with a
blade more than 3 inches in length, a shuriken, martial arts star, ninja star,
throwing star, nunchaku, or nunchucks in any of the streets, alleys, parks,
boulevards, or other public property or schools in the township, or in any
dance hall, theater, amusement park, liquor establishment, store, or other
private property generally frequented by the public for purposes of education,
recreation, amusement, entertainment, sport, or shipping. The prohibition
contained in this section shall not apply to any person in possession of any
such knife, shuriken, martial arts star, ninja star, throwing star, nunchaku,
or nunchucks when it is used or carried in good faith as a tool of honest work,
trade, business, sport, or recreation, or when the person in possession of the
knife, shuriken, martial arts star, ninja star, throwing star, nunchaku, or
nunchucks is actively engaged therein or actively engaged in going to or
returning from that honest work, trade, business, sport, or recreation.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.05 FIREARMS IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall transport in any vehicle a firearm unless the same is
unloaded in both barrel and magazine and carried in the luggage compartment of
the vehicle, or in a securely locked compartment of any vehicle not containing
a luggage compartment unless authorized pursuant to specific authorization by
the State of Michigan or the United States of America.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.06 DEVICES RELEASING ELECTRICAL CURRENT OR THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   A person shall not manufacture, sell, offer for sale, or possess any type of
portable device or weapon from which an electrical current, impulse, wave, or
beam ejects, releases, or emits for the purpose of rendering a person either
temporarily or permanently disabled.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 138: FIREWORKS
Section
   
138.01   Purpose
   
138.02   Definitions
   
138.03   Manufacture of fireworks prohibited
   
138.04   General provisions
   
138.05   Sale of novelties
   
138.06   Permits for displays; display fireworks
§ 138.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve the public health, safety, and
welfare by establishing regulations for the use, possession and sale of
fireworks within the township.
(Ord. 14-211, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 138.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
consumer product safety commission under 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and that
are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS does
not include low-impact fireworks.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, as provided in 27
CFR 555.11, 49 CFR 172, and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS.  Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic,
display fireworks, and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   NOVELTIES.  That term as defined under APA standards 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1,
3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls,
or individual caps containing not more than .25 of a grain of explosive content
per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and toy
guns in which toy caps as described in division (1) are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion.
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in
diameter.
      (4)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer's
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
(Ord. 14-211, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 138.03 MANUFACTURE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   The manufacture of fireworks within the township is prohibited.
(Ord. 14-211, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 138.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail "Display Fireworks" (formerly known as
"Class B" Fireworks), also known as 1.3G Fireworks.
   (B)   The sale, display, storage, transportation, or distribution of
consumer, display or low-impact fireworks is not regulated under this chapter,
except as set forth in §§
153.001 and
153.354 of the code.
   (C)   Prohibition on use of consumer fireworks. 
      (1)   No person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within
the township, except this prohibition shall not preclude any person from the
ignition, discharge or use of consumer fireworks on the following days after
11:00 a.m.:
         (a)   December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
         (b)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
         (c)   June 29 to July 4 until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
         (d)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.
         (e)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
      (2)   Pursuant to Michigan Public Act 635 of 2018, each violation of this
section shall result in a civil fine of $1,000.00; $500.00 of the fine
collected under this section shall be remitted to the Montrose Township Police
Department for enforcing this section.
   (D)   Ignition, discharge or use of consumer fireworks within the township,
other than as permitted in subsection (C)(1)(a) through (e), may be permitted
upon the issuance of a special use permit in accordance with §
153.215 et seq. and the following:
      (1)   The special use permit period shall not exceed 5 days.
      (2)   In addition to notification requirements provided in §
153.427, the township fire department shall receive notification by either
personal delivery or by first class U.S. mail.
      (3)   In addition to establishing that the standards set forth in §
153.218 are satisfied, the Planning Commission may attach any special
conditions to the approval of a special use permit as may be necessary to
assure the safety of spectators and surrounding property owners.
   (E)   Low-impact fireworks shall be ignited, discharged, or used so as to
not cause injury or damage to any person or property but shall not be ignited,
discharged, or used inside any building or structure at any time without a
license or permit issued by the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief. Novelty fireworks
may be ignited, discharged, or used without restriction, but only in a manner
so as to not cause injury or damage to any person or property.
(Ord. 14-211, passed 9-16-2014; Ord. 2019-235, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 138.05 SALE OF NOVELTIES.
   A person, firm, partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail, keep with the intent to sell at retail novelties only by
permit as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-211, passed 9-16-2014)
§ 138.06 PERMITS FOR DISPLAYS; DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The prohibitions against the use or possession of consumer or low-
impact fireworks contained in §
138.04 above, shall not apply if the person, firm, partnership or corporation
possessing said fireworks is in possession of a permit issued by the Township
Board.
   (B)   Obtaining permit for use of display fireworks:
      (1)   Applications for fireworks permits for display shall be made in
writing on forms provided by the township office.
      (2)   The Township Board may, in its discretion, issue a fireworks permit
for public display of fireworks by a public body, or by a fair association or
amusement park, or other approved groups or organizations and approved
individuals over the age of 18 years.
      (3)   Permits approved by the Township Board shall be on forms provided
by the Director of the Department of State Police and shall be non-
transferable.
      (4)   Before a permit for use of fireworks is issued, the person making
application therefor shall furnish proof of financial responsibility by a bond
or insurance on an amount deemed necessary by the Township Board to satisfy
claims for damages to property or personal injuries arising out of an act or
omission on the part of the person, firm or corporation, or an agent or
employee thereof, in the amount, character, and form the local authority
determines necessary for the protection of the public.
      (5)   A permit shall not be issued under this act to a nonresident
person, firm, or corporation for conduct of a fireworks display in this state
until the person, firm, or corporation has appointed in writing a resident
member of the bar of this state or a resident agent to be his or her legal
representative upon whom all process in an action or proceeding against him or
her may be served.
      (6)   The Board shall rule on the competency and qualifications of
operators of fireworks displays, as the operator has furnished in his or her
application form, and on the time, place, and safety aspects of the displays
before granting permits.
(Ord. 14-211, passed 9-16-2014)
CHAPTER 139: LARCENY
Section
   
139.01   Larceny
   
139.02   Retail fraud
   
139.03   False coin, price tags, weights and measures and the like
   
139.04   Theft from coin device or depository
   
139.05   Entry without permission
   
139.06   Receiving stolen goods
   
139.07   Embezzlement
   
139.08   Disposal of property under mortgage or lease
   
139.09   Drawing bad checks
   
139.10   Theft by false tokens or false pretense
   
139.11   Leaving hotel or restaurant without payment
   
139.12   Theft from self-service
   
139.13   Possession of burglary tools
   
139.14   Break and enter automobile
   
139.15   Fraudulent access to computer
   
139.16   Identity theft
§ 139.01 LARCENY.
   No person shall commit the offense of larceny by stealing the personal
property including, but not limited to, money, goods or chattels, bank notes or
bills, bonds, promissory notes, due bills, drafts, books of account, deeds or
other writing containing a conveyance of land, or public records belonging to
another.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.02 RETAIL FRAUD.
   (A)   No person shall, in a store or in its immediate vicinity:
      (1)   While the store is open to the public, steal property from the
store that was offered for sale;
      (2)   While the store is open to the public, alter, transfer, remove and
replace, conceal, or otherwise misrepresent the price at which property is
offered for sale, with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less
than the price at which the property is offered for sale; nor
      (3)   With intent to defraud, obtain or attempt to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund or exchange for property that was not paid
for and belongs to the store.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 139.03 FALSE COIN, PRICE TAGS, WEIGHTS AND MEASURES AND THE LIKE.
   No person who, with intent to defraud or cheat, shall designedly, by color
of any false token, by any false or bogus check, by spurious coin, by switching
price tags, or by means of any false weights or measures, obtain from any
person any money or other valuable thing.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.04 THEFT FROM COIN DEVICE OR DEPOSITORY.
   No person shall break or enter into any coin-operated device or depository
box or other receptacle, established and maintained for the convenience of the
public wherein is contained money or other things of value, for the purpose of
stealing or unlawfully removing the money or valuable property therein.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.05 ENTRY WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall break and enter, or shall enter without breaking, any
dwelling, house, tent, hotel, office, store, shop, warehouse, barn, factory, or
other building, boat, ship, railroad car, apartment, cottage, clubhouse, lodge,
garage, or the outbuildings belonging thereto, or any other structure, whether
occupied or unoccupied, without first obtaining permission to enter from the
owner or occupant, agent, or person having lawful control thereof.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.06 RECEIVING STOLEN GOODS.
   (A)   No person shall buy, receive, or aid in the concealment of any stolen,
embezzled, or converted money, goods, or property, knowing the same to have
been stolen, embezzled, or converted.
   (B)   Any person, being a dealer in or collector of any merchandise or
personal property, or any agent, employee, or representative of such dealer or
collector, who fails to make reasonable inquiry that the person selling or
delivering any stolen, embezzled, or converted property to him or her has a
legal right to do so, or who buys or receives any such property which has a
registration, serial, or other identifying number altered or obliterated on any
external surface thereof, shall be presumed to have bought or received the
property knowing it to have been stolen, embezzled, or converted. This
presumption may, however, be rebutted by proof.
   (C)   In any prosecution of the offense of buying, receiving, or aiding in
the concealment of stolen, embezzled, or converted money or other property, it
shall not be necessary to aver, nor at the trial thereof to prove, that the
person who stole, embezzled, or converted the property has been convicted.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.07 EMBEZZLEMENT.
   No person, whether as the agent, servant, or employee of another, or as the
trustee, bailee, or custodian of the property of another, nor any partnership,
voluntary association, public or private corporation, nor this state, nor any
county, city, village, township, or school district within this state, shall
fraudulently dispose of or convert to his or her own use, or take or secrete
with intent to convert to his or her own use without the consent of his or her
principal, any money or other personal property of his or her principal which
shall have come to his or her possession or shall be under his or her charge or
control by virtue of his or her being the agent, servant, employee, trustee,
bailee, or custodian as aforementioned. In any prosecution under this section,
the failure, neglect, or refusal of the agent, servant, employee, trustee,
bailee, or custodian to pay, deliver, or refund to his or her principal the
money or property entrusted to his or her care upon demand shall be prima facie
proof of intent to embezzle.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.08 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY UNDER MORTGAGE OR LEASE.
   No person shall embezzle, fraudulently remove, conceal, or dispose of any
personal property held by him or her subject to any chattel mortgage or written
instrument intended to operate as a chattel mortgage, or any lease or written
instrument intended to operate as a lease, or any contract to purchase not yet
fulfilled with intent to injure or defraud the mortgagee, lessor, or vendor
under the contract or any assignee thereof.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.09 DRAWING BAD CHECKS.
   No person shall, with intent to defraud, make or draw or utter or deliver
any check, draft, or order for the payment of money to apply on account or
otherwise upon any bank or other depository knowing at the time of making,
drawing, uttering, or delivery that the maker or drawer has not sufficient
funds in or credit with the bank or other depository for the payment of that
check, draft, or order in full upon its presentation, nor shall any person,
with the intent to defraud, make, draw, utter, or deliver any check, draft, or
order for the payment of money to apply on account or otherwise upon any bank
or other depository and not have sufficient funds for the payment for same when
presentation for payment is made to the drawee, except where the lack of funds
is due to garnishment, attachment, levy, or other lawful cause, and that fact
was not known to the person who made, drew, uttered, or delivered the
instrument at the time of so doing.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.10 THEFT BY FALSE TOKENS OR FALSE PRETENSE.
   No person shall, with intent to defraud or cheat, by color of any false
token or writing or by any false or bogus check or other written, printed, or
engraved instrument, by spurious coin or metal in the similitude of coin, or by
any other false pretense, cause any person to grant, convey, assign, demise,
lease, or mortgage any land or interest in land, or obtain the signature of any
person to any written instrument, the making whereof would be punishable as
forgery, or obtain from any person any money, personal property or the use of
any instrument, facility, article, or other valuable thing or service, or by
means of any false weights or measures obtain a larger amount or quantity of
property than was bargained for, or by means of any false weights or measures
sell or dispose of a less amount or quantity of property than was bargained
for.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.11 LEAVING HOTEL OR RESTAURANT WITHOUT PAYMENT.
   No person shall put up at any hotel, motel, inn, restaurant, or café as a
guest and shall procure any food, entertainment, or accommodation without
paying therefor, except when credit is given therefor by express agreement,
with intent to defraud the keeper thereof out of the pay for the same, or who,
with intent to defraud the keeper out of the pay therefor, shall obtain credit
at any hotel, motel, inn, restaurant, or café for food, entertainment, or
accommodation, by means of any false show of baggage or effects brought
thereto. No conviction shall be had under the provisions of this section unless
complaint is made within 60 days of the time of the violation hereof.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.12 THEFT FROM SELF-SERVICE.
   (A)   No person shall convert to himself or herself any property, commodity,
thing of value, or service through a self-service system of acquiring property
without paying for that property or making prior arrangement for payment
therefor with the owner, attendant, or supplier of that property, commodity,
thing of value, or service.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
any person to leave the building or premises where property was obtained
without first making full payment therefor with the owner, attendant, or
supplier. Further, probable cause shall exist to effect an arrest of, or seek a
warrant against, the registered owner of any vehicle used to leave a premise
where property was obtained in violation of this section.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.13 POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly have in his or her possession or control any
nitroglycerine, thermite, engine, machine, tool, implement, chemical, or other
substance or device adapted and designed for cutting or burning through,
forcing, or breaking open any building, room, vault, safe, motor vehicle, motor
vehicle truck or glove compartment, or other depository, or for starting the
engine of a motor vehicle or driving away a motor vehicle without the regular
key in order to steal any money or other property, knowing the same to be
adapted and designed for one or more of the purposes aforesaid, with intent to
use or employ the same for one or more of the purposes aforesaid.
   (B)   No person shall possess any instrument, tool, or other implement for
picking locks or pockets, or any implement that is usually employed or that
reasonably may be inferred to have been designed to be employed in the
commission of any felony, misdemeanor or the violation of any ordinance,
without accounting satisfactorily for the possession of the same.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.14 BREAK AND ENTER AUTOMOBILE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully break and enter, or shall enter without
breaking, any motor vehicle, house trailer, trailer, or semi trailer to steal
or unlawfully remove any property or accessory from it.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.15 FRAUDULENT ACCESS TO COMPUTER.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally access or cause access to be made to a
computer program, computer, computer system, or computer network to devise or
execute a scheme or artifice with the intent to defraud or to obtain money,
property, or a service by a false or fraudulent pretense, representation, or
promise.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 139.16 IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   No person shall use or attempt to use the personal identifying
information of another person without that person’s consent to obtain credit,
goods, services, money, property, any vital record or confidential telephone
record, medical record, other information, or employment.
   (B)   No person shall use or attempt to use the personal identifying
information of another person to commit an unlawful act.
   (C)   No person shall obtain, possess, or attempt to obtain or possess
personal identifying information of another person with the intent to use that
information to commit identity theft or another crime.
   (D)   No person shall sell or transfer, or attempt to sell or transfer,
personal identifying information of another person if the person knows or has
reason to know that the specific intended recipient will use, attempt to use,
or further transfer the information to another person for the purpose of
committing identity theft or another crime.
   (E)   Each division contained in this section shall apply whether the
individual who is the victim or the intended victim of the identity theft is
alive or deceased at the time of the violation.
   (F)   Any violation of any of the terms of this ordinance shall be
punishable in accordance with §
130.99 of the Code of Ordinances of the Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 140: LITTERING
Section
   
140.01   Littering; accident debris
   
140.02   Throwing or dropping object at vehicle
   
140.03   Vehicle involved in littering; owner or lessee responsibility
   
140.04   Definitions; disposal restrictions; receptacles
   
140.05   Businesses; litter prevention
   
140.06   Handbills and newspapers
   
140.07   Litter remediation
§ 140.01 LITTERING; ACCIDENT DEBRIS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person knowingly, without the consent of the
public authority having supervision of public property or the owner of private
property, to dump, deposit, place, throw, leave, or cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on public or
private property or water other than property designated and set aside for
those purposes.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY OR WATER. Includes, but is not limited to, the
right-of-way of a road or highway, parking lots and parking areas, a body of
water or watercourse, or the shore or beach thereof, including the ice above
the water; a park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation
area; and residential or farm properties or timberlands
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person who removes a vehicle wrecked or damaged
in an accident on a highway, road, or street to fail to remove all glass and
other injurious substances dropped on the highway, road, or street as a result
of the accident.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 140.02 THROWING OR DROPPING OBJECT AT VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly cause any litter or any
object to fall or to be thrown into the path of or to hit a vehicle traveling
the highway.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 140.03 VEHICLE INVOLVED IN LITTERING; OWNER OR LESSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section involving litter
from a leased vehicle or leased vessel, in a proceeding for violation of this
act involving litter from a motor vehicle or vessel, proof that the particular
vehicle or vessel described in the citation, complaint, or warrant was used in
the violation, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint, or warrant was the registered owner of the vehicle or vessel at the
time of the violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that the
registered owner of the vehicle or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or
vessel at the time of the violation.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle or vessel is presumed to be responsible for
litter which is thrown, dropped, dumped, deposited, placed, or left from the
vehicle or vessel on public or private property or water.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle registered under Public Act 300 of 1949,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923, as amended.
      VESSEL. A vessel as that term is defined in Act No. 451 of Public Acts of
1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 324.80104(q), as amended.
   (D)   In a proceeding for violation of this chapter involving litter from a
leased motor vehicle or leased vessel, proof that the particular vehicle or
vessel described in the citation, complaint, or warrant was used in the
violation, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint, or warrant was the lessee of the vehicle or vessel at the time of
the violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that the lessee of the
vehicle or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or vessel at the time of the
violation.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 140.04 DEFINITIONS; DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS; RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANY OTHER OFFENSIVE OR NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substance which will
attract any vermin, rodents, insects, or other disease-carrying animal.
      GARBAGE. Refuse animal or vegetable matter or substance from a kitchen
and refuse fruit, vegetables, and animal matter and substances from stores,
markets, and restaurants, and food containers, wrappings, or any other article
upon which food particles or other particles which are attractive to vermin,
rodents, flies, or insects are adhering thereto.
   (B)   Disposal restrictions; receptacles. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, or corporation within
the township to deposit or place any garbage or other offensive substance as
herein defined in any street, alley, public place, or upon any private property
therein unless such property is duly authorized as a disposal site by the State
of Michigan, unless the same shall be contained in vessels or cans of a
capacity as will afford storage for all garbage and offensive substances as
shall be produced or accumulated on the private property or premises used in
connection with the receptacles, and all other owners, lessees, or other
occupants of any building, place, or places of business shall at all times keep
suitable receptacles as aforementioned for removing and holding all garbage and
offensive substances.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 140.05 BUSINESSES; LITTER PREVENTION.
   All operators of drive-in restaurants or other retail or wholesale business
establishments shall exercise all reasonable precautions to prohibit the
littering of both the premises of the restaurant and the streets, alleys, and
adjoining lands of the township and shall at all times maintain the premises in
a neat and sanitary condition, and shall erect fences, barriers, or otherwise
so as to prevent the accumulations of any litter originating from the drive-in
restaurant or other retail or wholesale business establishment from blowing
onto adjoining properties or streets in the township. All owners and operators
of drive-in restaurants shall clean the premises so as to prevent the blowing
of any papers, refuse, or garbage onto adjoining properties or streets within
the township after closing hours.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 140.06 HANDBILLS AND NEWSPAPERS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any sidewalk,
street or other public place within the township. However, it shall not be
unlawful on any sidewalk, street or public place within the township for any
person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon a vehicle.
However, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out
or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, a handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
   (C)   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any private
premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   (D)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any handbill in or upon
private premises which are inhabited, except by handling or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then represent in
or upon such private premises.
   (E)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the distribution of
mail by the United States or a commercial delivery service, nor to newspapers
when such newspapers are delivered to a current subscriber and are placed on
private premises in such a manner as to prevent them from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public or private
property or water.
   (F)   In addition to the civil penalties provided in §
131.99, the court may impose, under its supervision, community service in the
form of litter-gathering labor, including, but not limited to, litter connected
with the particular violation.
   (G)   In addition to the penalties provided for in this section, this
chapter may be enforced by suit for injunction, action for damages or any
equitable relief appropriate to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 15-217, passed 10-20-2015)
§ 140.07 LITTER REMEDIATION.
   The court, in lieu of or in addition to any other sentence that may be
imposed, may direct litter-gathering labor including, but not limited to, the
litter connected with the particular violation under the supervision of the
court.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 141: MINORS
Section
   
141.01   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor
   
141.02   Furnishing obscene materials to a minor
   
141.03   Curfew for minors
   
141.04   Minors in custody; failure of parent to collect
   
141.05   Possession of handgun by minor
   
141.06   Possession or sale of tobacco to minors
   
141.07   Delinquent acts of minors; parental responsibilities
§ 141.01 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   (A)   No person shall, by any act or word, encourage, contribute toward,
cause, or tend to cause any minor child under the age of 17 years to become
neglected or delinquent so as to come or tend to come under the jurisdiction of
the family division of the Circuit Court, whether or not such child shall in
fact be adjudicated a ward of the Court.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly and willfully aid or abet a child under the
age of 17 years to violate an order of a juvenile court or knowingly and
willfully conceal or harbor juvenile runaways who have taken flight from the
custody of the court, their parents, or their legal guardian.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99 
§ 141.02 FURNISHING OBSCENE MATERIALS TO A MINOR.
   No person shall sell, give away, or in any way furnish to a person under the
age of 18 years a book, pamphlet, or other printed paper or other thing
containing obscene language, obscene prints, pictures, figures, or descriptions
tending to corrupt the morals of youth, and no person shall in any manner hire,
use, or employ a person under the age of 18 years to sell, give away, or in any
manner distribute these types of books, pamphlets, or printed papers, and any
person having the care, custody, or control of a person under the age of 18
years who permits him or her to engage in any such employment shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 141.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 12 years shall loiter, idle, congregate, or
be in or on any public street, highway, alley, park, or public place between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor child is accompanied by
a parent or guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to
accompany the child.
   (B)   No minor under the age of 17 years shall loiter, idle, congregate, or
be in or on any public street, highway, alley, park, or public place between
the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. immediately following, except where the
minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian or some adult over the age of 21
years delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor child, or
where the minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by his
or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 141.04 MINORS IN CUSTODY; FAILURE OF PARENT TO COLLECT.
   Any parent or legal guardian of a minor child who is notified that his or
her minor child has been taken into custody for any violation of §
141.03, and who refuses to collect that minor child from the authorities or
make provisions therefor within a period of 3 hours after notification, shall
be guilty of a civil infraction.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 141.05 POSSESSION OF HANDGUN BY MINOR.
   No person under 16 years of age shall use or possess any handgun designed
and manufactured exclusively for propelling BBs not exceeding 0.177 caliber by
means of spring, gas, or air outside the curtilage of his or her domicile,
unless he or she is accompanied by a person over 18 years of age.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 141.06 POSSESSION OR SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   (A)   Use or possession of tobacco products by minors in public. No person
under 18 years of age shall possess or smoke cigarettes or cigars; or possess,
chew, suck, or inhale chewing tobacco or tobacco snuff; or possess or use
tobacco in any form on a public highway, street, alley, park, or other lands
used for public purposes, or in a public place of business or amusement.
   (B)   Furnishing tobacco products to minors. 
      (1)   No person shall sell, give, or furnish any cigarette, cigar,
chewing tobacco, tobacco snuff, or tobacco in any form to a person less than 18
years of age.
      (2)   A person who sells tobacco products at retail shall post in a place
close to the point of sale and conspicuous to both employees and customers a
sign produced by the Department of Health stating the purchase of tobacco
products by a minor less than 18 years of age is prohibited by law.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 141.07 DELINQUENT ACTS OF MINORS; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DELINQUENT ACTS. Includes acts which violate the laws of the U.S., or the
laws or regulations of this state, or the ordinances of the township, or those
acts which would cause or tend to cause a juvenile to come under the
jurisdiction of the juvenile division of the Probate Court as defined in
M.C.L.A.§ 712A.2, but does not include traffic violations classified as civil
infractions.
      ILLEGAL DRUGS. Any controlled substance, as defined by the State Public
Health Code, obtained without a legal prescription.
      JUVENILE DELINQUENT. Juveniles who engage in any delinquent act, whose
behavior interferes with the rights of others, or whose behavior menaces the
health or welfare of the community.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 17 years residing with a parent or
guardian.
      PARENT. Mother, father, legal guardian, or other person having the care
or custody of a minor, or any person acting in the parent’s stead who has the
care, custody, or control of the minor.
   (B)   Parental duties; reasonable control.
      (1)   It is the duty of the parent of any minor to exercise reasonable
control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act.
      (2)   Included (without limitation) in this duty of reasonable parental
control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act are the
following parental duties, which requires each parent, independently, to take
all reasonable steps:
         (a)   To keep illegal drugs or illegal firearms out of the home;
         (b)   To keep legal firearms locked in places that are inaccessible to
those minors who are not of suitable age, discretion, or maturity to handle
firearms;
         (c)   To know curfew ordinances of the township, and to require the
minor to observe the curfew ordinance;
         (d)   To require the minor to attend regular school sessions and to
forbid the minor to be absent from class without parental or school permission;
         (e)   To arrange proper supervision for those minors who are not of
suitable age, discretion, or maturity to remain unsupervised when the parent
must be absent;
         (f)   To take reasonably necessary precautions to prevent the minor
from maliciously or willfully destroying any real, personal, or mixed property
which belongs to the township, or is located in the township;
         (g)   To take reasonable precautions to prevent the minor from keeping
or converting stolen property or illegally possessing firearms or illegal
drugs; and
         (h)   To seek help from appropriate governmental authorities or
private agencies in handling or controlling the minor when necessary.
   (C)   Notification of parents; record.
      (1)   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained for the commission of any
delinquent act within the township, the Township Police Department shall take
reasonable steps to contact the parent(s) of that minor, advising the parent of
the arrest or detention, the reason therefor, and the parent’s responsibility
under this chapter.
      (2)   A record of that notification shall be kept by the Township Police
Department.
   (D)   Violation by parent; liability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of a minor to fail to exercise
reasonable parental control over that minor.
      (2)   Any parent who has violated this ordinance shall be civilly
responsible for all of the damages and costs caused by the commission of any
delinquent act by a minor for whom the parent has the care, custody, or
control.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 142: PUBLIC NUISANCES; MORALS
Section
   
142.01   Definitions
   
142.02   Indecent exposure; lewd acts; solicitation
   
142.03   Public urination or defecation
   
142.04   Sexual conduct in a vehicle
   
142.05   Prostitution
   
142.06   Public display of sexually explicit material
   
142.07   Public nudity
   
142.08   Gaming or gambling house
   
142.09   Disorderly person
   
142.10   Unlawful posting of messages
§ 142.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDECENT EXPOSURE. Exposure to sight of the private parts of the body in a
lewd or indecent manner in a public place.
   LEWDNESS. Gross and wanton indecency in sexual relations.
   PROSTITUTION. Common lewdness of a woman for gain.
   SOLICITATION. Asking; enticing; urgent request. Any action which the
relation of the parties justifies in construing into a serious request.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 142.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE; LEWD ACTS; SOLICITATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make any indecent exposure of his or her
person or of the person of another.
   (B)   No person shall accost, solicit, or invite another in any public
place, or in or from any building or vehicle, by word, gesture, or any other
means, to commit prostitution or to do any other lewd or immoral act.
   (C)   No person shall engage or offer to engage the services of another
person for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation by the payment
of money or other form of consideration.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.03 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   No person shall knowingly and intentionally urinate or defecate in any
public or private place other than at an appropriate facility provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.04 SEXUAL CONDUCT IN A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall perform any act of sexual conduct as defined in
division (B) of this section in a vehicle when the vehicle is in motion,
parked, stopped, or standing:
      (1)   In a public place;
      (2)   In an area open to the public; or
      (3)   On private property when the interior of the vehicle is on view
from a public area or an area open to the public. ON VIEW is defined for
purposes of this section as capable of being seen if the interior of the
vehicle is lighted naturally or artificially, or, if unlighted, capable of
being seen if it becomes lighted naturally or artificially, whether the light
originates from the interior or exterior of the vehicle.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) of this section, SEXUAL CONDUCT shall
include:
      (1)   Vaginal intercourse which has its ordinary meaning and occurs upon
any penetration, however slight. Emission of semen is not required;
      (2)   Alternate intercourse, which means any sexual act involving the sex
organs of one person and the mouth, hands, anus, or breasts of another;
      (3)   Sexual contact, which means the intentional touching of any sexual
organ whether uncovered or covered by clothing covering the immediate areas of
the person’s intimate parts, if the intentional touching can reasonably be
construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.05 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall commit, engage in, offer or agree to commit a lewd act
or an act of prostitution, moral perversion, or any lewd act involving the
touching or contacting of the genitals of another.
   (B)   No person shall secure, offer, accost, solicit, or invite another into
any building or vehicle by word, gesture, or any other means for the purpose of
committing a lewd act or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (C)   No person shall be in or near any place frequented by the public, or
any public place, for the purpose of inducing, enticing, or procuring another
to commit a lewd act or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (D)   No person shall make a meretricious display in or near any place
frequented by the public, or any place open to the public view.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly transport, direct, receive, offer to
receive, or agree to receive any person into any place, building, trailer, or
vehicle for the purpose of committing any lewd act or act of prostitution or
moral perversion, or to knowingly permit any person to remain in any place,
building, trailer, or vehicle for any such purpose.
   (F)   No person shall keep, maintain, operate, aid, or abet in keeping,
maintaining, or operating a building, trailer, vehicle, or place resorted to
for the purpose of prostitution.
   (G)   No person shall aid, abet, allow, permit, or participate in the
commission of any of the acts prohibited in divisions (A) through (F) of this
section.
   (H)   This section does not apply to a police officer while in the
performance of conducting duties assigned by their employer.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.06 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person acting in a managerial capacity of
being the owner, proprietor, operator, or manager of a business to knowingly
place offensive sexually explicit material upon public display for the purposes
of sale, entertainment, or distribution, or fail to take prompt action to
remove such a display from property in his or her possession or under his or
her control after learning of its existence. The prohibition of this section
shall not apply to broadcasts or telecasts through facilities licensed under
the Federal Communications Act.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFFENSIVE. The work in which the representations appear, taken as a
whole, appeals to the prurient interest and patently depicts or portrays the
prohibited sexually explicit material in a manner which, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political, educational, or scientific value.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. In the context of films or motion pictures, the
projection of those films or motion pictures on any viewing screen outside a
completely enclosed building or theater. In the context of photographs,
drawings, sculptures, or other visual representation, PUBLIC DISPLAY shall mean
the placing of materials within the definition of offensive or sexually
explicit material on or in a newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar place so that the material is easily visible from a public
thoroughfare, from the property of others, from a common walk or mall, or from
that portion of the interior generally open to minors at the time of the
placing.
      SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture,
motion picture, film, or other visual representation or image depicting
uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-pubertal human genitals or pubic
areas in a lewd fashion, or depicting human sexual intercourse, human or animal
masturbation, bestiality, oral intercourse, anal intercourse, human-animal
intercourse, excretory functions, homosexual acts, direct physical stimulation
or touching of unclothed genitals or pubic areas of the human male or female,
flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is nude or clad in revealing or
bizarre costumes in the context of a sexual relationship or sexual stimulation.
The material shall be judged without regard to any covering which may be
affixed or printed over the material in order to obscure genital areas in a
depiction otherwise falling within the definition of these sections. Works of
art or of anthropological significance are not included within this definition.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.07 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
appear in a state of nudity in any public place, including any building
establishment open to the public in the township.
   (B)   It shall not be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity
in a public place under the following circumstances:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding a baby whether or not the nipple or areola
is exposed during or incidental to feeding;
      (2)   Material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362;
      (3)   Sexually explicit visual material defined in Public Act 33 of 1978,
§ 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673;
      (4)   Public showers located at churches, schools, or athletic clubs.
This exception shall not apply to any circumstance where any person shall pay
an admission charge or a fee to watch another person shower in a state of
nudity;
      (5)   Modeling at an accredited university, college, or junior college or
at an accredited art school while in a state of nudity or partial nudity;
      (6)   Public nudity during any physical examination or test performed by
a licensed physician or technician at a hospital, medical center, or
physician’s clinic or office; or
      (7)   Public nudity by emergency services personnel necessitated by
hazardous material decontamination.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC NUDITY. Knowingly or intentionally displaying in a public place,
or for payment or promise of payment by any person including, but not limited
to, payment or promise of payment of an admission fee, any individual’s
genitals or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or a female
individual’s breast with less than a fully opaque covering of the nipple and
areola.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.08 GAMING OR GAMBLING HOUSE.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly, keep or occupy, or assist in
keeping or occupying, any common gambling house or any building or place where
gaming is permitted or suffered, nor shall suffer or permit on any premises
owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her any apparatus used for gaming or
gambling nor shall use such an apparatus for gaming or gambling, unless
approved by the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 142.09 DISORDERLY PERSON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful hereunder for a person to be a disorderly person.
   (B)   A person is disorderly if the person is any of the following:
      (1)   Any person wandering abroad and begging; while living idly and
without viable means of support, or any person who goes about from door-to-door
to private homes or commercial and business establishments, or places himself
or herself in or upon any public way or public place to beg or receive alms for
himself or herself;
      (2)   Any person found loitering or strolling in, about, or upon any
street, alley or other public way or public place, or at any public gathering
or assembly, or in or around any store, shop, or business or commercial
establishment, or on any public property or place without lawful business and
conducting himself or herself in a lewd, wanton, or lascivious manner in speech
or behavior;
      (3)   Any person who frequents or loafs, loiters, or idles in or around
or is the occupant of or is employed in any gambling establishment or
establishment where intoxicating liquor is sold without a license;
      (4)   Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging, or sleeping in
any vacant or unoccupied barn, shed, shop, or other building or structure, or
in any automobile, truck, railroad car, or other vehicle, without owning the
same or without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession of the
same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during the hours of darkness and not giving
a satisfactory account of himself or herself;
      (5)   Any person who wanders about the streets, alleys, or other public
ways or places, or who is found abroad at late or unusual hours in the night
without any visible or lawful business and not giving a satisfactory account of
himself or herself; and/or
      (6)   Be found looking into the windows or doors of any house, apartment
or other residence, or into any building so constructed with a hole or opening
in a wall, in such a manner as would be likely to interfere with the occupant’s
reasonable expectation of privacy and without the occupant’s express or implied
consent;
      (7)   Using vulgar, profane, or indecent language on any public street or
other public place;
      (8)   Be intoxicated in a public place and who is either directly
endangering the safety of another person or persons or property, or who is
acting in a manner that causes a public disturbance;
      (9)   Engaging in obscene or indecent conduct in a public place;
      (10)   Jostling another person or persons in a crowd;
      (11)   Disturbing lawful meetings or creating a disturbance in a public
street or other public place;
      (12)   Loitering in or about a police station or other public buildings;
      (13)   Loitering, loafing, wandering, standing, or remaining idle in a
public place so as to do either of the following:
         (a)   Obstruct a public street, highway, sidewalk, place, or building
by hindering, impeding, or threatening to hinder or impede the free and
uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians therein or thereon;
or
         (b)   Obstruct or interfere with the free and uninterrupted use of
property or business lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing, or fronting
any such public street, highway, sidewalk, place, or building as to prevent the
free and uninterrupted ingress or egress thereto or there-from; and who refuses
or fails forthwith to obey an order by a police officer to cease such conduct
and to move and disperse.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
 
§ 142.10 UNLAWFUL POSTING OF MESSAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPUTER. Any connected, directly interoperable or interactive device,
equipment, or facility that uses a computer program or other instructions to
perform specific operations including logical, arithmetic, or memory functions
with or on computer data or a computer program and that can store, retrieve,
alter, or communicate the results of the operation to a person, computer
program, computer, computer system, or computer network.
      COMPUTER NETWORK. The interconnection of hardware or wireless
communication lines with a computer through remote terminals, or a complex
consisting of 2 or more interconnected computers.
      COMPUTER PROGRAM. A series of internal or external instructions
communicated in a form acceptable to a computer that directs the functioning of
a computer, computer system, or computer network in a manner designed to
provide or produce products or results from the computer, computer system, or
computer network.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. A set of related (connected or unconnected,) computer
equipment, devices, software, or hardware.
      DEVICE. Includes, but is not limited to, an electronic, magnetic,
electrochemical, biochemical, hydraulic, optical, or organic object that
performs input, output, or storage functions by the manipulation of electronic,
magnetic, or other impulse.
      EMOTIONAL DISTRESS. Significant mental suffering or distress that may,
but does not necessarily, require medical or other professional treatment or
counseling.
      INTERNET. That term as defined in § 230 of Title II of the Communications
Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 110 Stat. 1237, 47 U.S.C. § 230.
      POST A MESSAGE. Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate information, whether
truthful or untruthful, about the victim.
      UNCONSENTED CONTACT. Any contact with another individual that is
initiated or continued without that individual’s consent or in disregard of
that individual’s expressed desire that the contact be avoided or discontinued.
UNCONSENTED CONTACT includes any of the following:
         (a)   Following or appearing within sight of the victim;
         (b)   Approaching or confronting the victim in a public place or on
private property;
         (c)   Appearing at the victim’s workplace or residence;
         (d)   Entering onto or remaining on property owned, leased, or
occupied by the victim;
         (e)   Contacting the victim by telephone;
         (f)   Sending mail or electronic communications to the victim through
the use of any medium, including the Internet or a computer, computer program,
computer system, or computer network; and/or
         (g)   Placing an object on, or delivering or having delivered an
object to, property owned, leased, or occupied by the victim.
      VICTIM. The individual who is the target of the conduct elicited by the
posted message or a member of that individual’s immediate family.
   (B)   A person shall not post a message through the use of any medium of
communication, including the internet or a computer, computer program, computer
system, computer network, or other electronic medium of communication, without
the victim’s consent, if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person knows or has reason to know that posting the message
could cause 2 or more separate non-continuous acts of un-consented contact with
the victim;
      (2)   Posting the message is intended to cause conduct that would make
the victim feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed, or
molested;
      (3)   Conduct arising from posting the message causes the victim to
suffer emotional distress and to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated,
threatened, harassed, or molested.
   (C)   This section does not apply to an Internet or computer network service
provider who in good faith, and without knowledge of the specific nature of the
message posted, provides the medium for disseminating information or
communication between persons.
   (D)   The court may order a person convicted of violating this section to
reimburse the State of Michigan or the Township of Montrose for the expenses
incurred.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit a person from being charged with,
convicted of, or punished for any other violation of law committed by that
person while violating or attempting to violate this section.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit constitutionally protected speech or
activity.
   (G)   A person may be prosecuted by the Township of Montrose for violating
or attempting to violate this section only if one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person posts the message while in the Township of Montrose;
      (2)   Conduct arising from posting the message occurs in the Township of
Montrose;
      (3)   The victim is present in the Township of Montrose at the time the
offense or any element of the offense occurs; and/or
      (4)   The person posting the message knows that the victim resides in the
Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 143: MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
143.01   Parking in fire lane
   
143.02   Use of motor vehicle without authority but without intent to steal
§ 143.01 PARKING IN FIRE LANE.
   No person shall block any fire vehicle fire lane with an unattended motor
vehicle upon the lands of any public or private property which shall have
designated emergency fire vehicle fire lane established by the Fire Chief or
Administrator of Montrose Charter Township and posted with signs at least every
200 feet which designate the area as a fire lane.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 143.02 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT AUTHORITY BUT WITHOUT INTENT TO STEAL.
   (A)   No person shall take or use another person's motor vehicle, without
authority, without intent to steal the same, nor shall any person be a party to
such unauthorized taking or using of another's vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person or persons employed by the
owner of said motor vehicle or to anyone else, who, by the nature of his or her
employment, has the charge of or the authority to drive said motor vehicle if
said motor vehicle is driven or used without the owner's knowledge or consent.
   (C)   The term MOTOR VEHICLE as used in this section shall include all
vehicles impelled on the public highways of this state by mechanical power,
except traction engines, road rollers and such vehicles as run only upon rails
or tracks.
(Ord. 13-202, passed 4-16-2013) Penalty, see § 130.99
CHAPTER 144: NOISE
Section
   
144.01   Unreasonable noise or disturbance; exemptions
§ 144.01 UNREASONABLE NOISE OR DISTURBANCE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall cause or create or permit to
continue any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud noise or disturbance injurious
to the health, peace, or quiet of the residents and property owners of the
township.
   (B)   The following noises and disturbances are hereby declared to be a
violation of this section; provided, however, that the specification of the
same is not thereby to be construed to exclude other violations of this section
not specifically enumerated:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television, or other
electronic or mechanical sound producing device, including any musical
instrument, in such a manner or with such volume as to unreasonably upset or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of other persons. A prima facie case
establishing unreasonableness shall be established upon the submission of proof
that such a device used in the interior of any building emanates such a volume
of sound as to be heard from any public way or from any private property not
owned by the maker of the noise;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, or singing on the public streets
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in
the vicinity, or which constitutes a breach of the peace;
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise, which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school, church, hospital, or court;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which emanates frequent or
extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of any persons in the vicinity; such as allowing or permitting any dog to bark
repeatedly in an area where that barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property;
      (5)   The operation of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded or constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other unreasonable noise including the noise
resulting from exhaust which is clearly audible from nearby properties and
unreasonably disturbing to the quiet, comfort, or repose of any person;
      (6)   The sounding of any horn or other device on any motor vehicle
unless necessary to operate the vehicle safely or as required by the State
Motor Vehicle Code or the Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships, and
villages as adopted by the township;
      (7)   The discharging outside of any enclosed building of a steam engine,
internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or motor boat engine except through
a muffler or other similar device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises. The modification of any noise abatement device on any motor
vehicle or engine or the failure to maintain same so that the noise emitted by
the vehicle or engine is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured shall be in violation of this section; 
      (8)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair of any
building or premises in any part of the township, including the streets and
highways, in a manner so as to emanate noise or disturbance (unreasonably
annoying) to other persons, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
sundown on weekdays, including Saturdays, except in cases of urgent necessity
in the interest of public health and safety. In that case, a permit shall be
obtained from the building inspector or ordinance enforcement officer of the
township; such permit shall limit the periods that the activity may continue;
      (9)   The creation of a loud or excessive noise unreasonably disturbing
to other persons in the vicinity in connection with the operation, loading, or
unloading of any vehicle, trailer, railroad car, or other carrier or in
connection with the repairing of any such vehicle in or near residential areas;
      (10)   The operation of any loudspeaker or other sound amplifying device
upon or within any vehicle on the streets of the township with the purpose of
advertising, where the vehicle, speaker, or sound amplifying equipment emits
loud and raucous noises easily heard from nearby adjoining residential
property;
      (11)   The operation of any machinery, equipment, or mechanical device so
as to emit unreasonably loud noise which is disturbing to the quiet, comfort,
or repose of any person;
      (12)   The operation of any racetrack, proving ground, testing area, or
obstacle course for motor vehicles, motorcycles, boats, racers, automobiles, or
vehicles of any kind or nature in any area of the township where the noise
emanating there-from would be unreasonably disturbing and upsetting to other
persons in the vicinity. Under no circumstances shall any race track, proving
ground, testing area, or obstacle course operate between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (13)   The use of any loudspeaker, bullhorn, or other device to urge,
incite, or induce any violence or breach of the peace.
   (C)   None of the prohibitions hereinbefore enumerated shall apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine, or emergency vehicle
while engaged in necessary emergency activities;
      (2)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets, or highways or other
property by or on behalf of the state, township, or county, between sundown and
6:00 a.m. and on Sundays when the public welfare, safety, and convenience
render it impossible to perform the work during other hours;
      (3)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device
used at any premises at which goods are sold in commemoration or celebration of
or in connection with a public holiday or occasion (not to exceed 4 hours);
      (4)   The use of any loudspeaker, musical instrument, or other sound
amplifying device in connection with any athletic, competitive, or recreational
event or parade held on public playgrounds, athletic fields, streets, or public
parks under consent of township authority, or the authority of the school
boards of the township.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 145: RAILROADS
Section
   
145.01   Railroads; obstruction of roadway traffic restricted
§ 145.01 RAILROADS; OBSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY TRAFFIC RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a railroad company to permit any of its
trains to obstruct any vehicular traffic on public streets or highways for a
longer period than 5 minutes at any 1 time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a railroad company to permit successive train
movements to obstruct any vehicular traffic on any public street or highway
until all vehicular traffic previously delayed by train movements has been
cleared or a period of 5 minutes has elapsed between train movements.
   (C)   Each offense under this section shall be a separate violation provided
that blockings caused by accident or mechanical failure shall not be offenses
hereunder.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 146: RESISTING ARREST AND OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
Section
   
146.01   Resisting or obstructing arrest or service of process
   
146.02   Obstruction of or disobedience to firefighter
   
146.03   Refusal to comply with traffic direction
   
146.04   Driver attempting to flee police
   
146.05   Presenting false identification
   
146.06   Providing false information to police
§ 146.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING ARREST OR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully obstruct, resist, or oppose any
sheriff, code enforcement officer, medical examiner, process server, constable,
police officer, or any duly authorized person serving or attempting to serve or
execute any process, rule, or order made or issued by lawful authority, nor
resist any such authorized person in the execution of any ordinance, by-law, or
any rule, order, or resolution made, issued, or passed by the Township Board,
nor assault, beat, or wound any such duly authorized person serving, attempting
to serve or execute, or having served or attempted to serve or execute any such
process, rule, or order, nor obstruct, resist, oppose, assault, beat, or wound
any persons authorized by law to maintain and preserve the peace in their
lawful acts, attempts, and efforts to maintain, preserve, and keep the peace.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 146.02 OBSTRUCTION OF OR DISOBEDIENCE TO FIREFIGHTER.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully hinder, obstruct, or interfere with
any firefighter in the performance of his or her duties, or, while in the
vicinity of any fire, willfully disobey any reasonable order, rule, or
regulation of the officer commanding any fire department at the fire.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 146.03 REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC DIRECTION.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any order of a police officer or his
or her designee when, for public interest and safety, he or she is guiding,
directing, controlling, or regulating traffic on the highways of this township.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 146.04 DRIVER ATTEMPTING TO FLEE POLICE.
   A driver of a motor vehicle who is given by hand, voice, emergency light, or
siren a visual or audible signal by a police officer, acting in the lawful
performance of his or her duty directing the driver to bring his or her motor
vehicle to a stop, and who willfully fails to obey that direction by increasing
his or her speed, extinguishing his or her lights, or otherwise attempting to
flee or elude the officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor. The officer giving the
signal shall be in uniform, and the vehicle driven shall be adequately
identified as a police vehicle.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 146.05 PRESENTING FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully interfere with any police officer or
code enforcement officer by supplying false identification to the police
officer or code enforcement officer to avoid detection, apprehension, or
prosecution of any criminal offense.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 146.06 PROVIDING FALSE INFORMATION TO POLICE.
   No person shall give any information, knowing it to be false, to any member
of the Police Department of the township when that member of the Police
Department of the township is in the performance of his or her official duties.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 147: TRESPASS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY
Section
   
147.01   Definitions
   
147.02   Trespass; agriculture
   
147.03   Trespass; school property
   
147.04   Trespass
   
147.05   Breaking and entering
   
147.06   Unlawful assembly; riot
   
147.07   Unlawful picketing and demonstrating
   
147.08   Inciting
   
147.09   Loitering public parks
§ 147.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RIOT. Acting in concert to wrongfully engage in violent conduct.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 147.02 TRESPASS; AGRICULTURE.
   No person shall willfully commit any trespass by cutting down or destroying
any timber or wood standing or growing on the land of another, or by carrying
away any kind of timber or wood cut down or lying on such land, or by digging
up or carrying away any stone, ore, gravel, clay, sand, turf or mold from such
land, or by cutting down or carrying away agriculture products growing or being
on such land, or by carrying away from any wharf, landing place, railroad depot
or warehouse any good whatsoever in which he or she has no interest without the
authorization of the owner.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.03 TRESPASS; SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall remain within any school, nor remain on any
lands owned, occupied, or used by any school, without first securing permission
of the principal or person in charge of the school or owner of the premises.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.04 TRESPASS.
   No person shall willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another
without lawful authority after having been forbidden to do so by the owner or
occupant (or agent or servant of either). Further, no person upon the land or
premises of another, upon being notified to depart there-from by the owner or
occupant (or the agent or servant of either), shall, without lawful authority,
neglect or refuse to depart therefrom.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.05 BREAKING AND ENTERING.
   No person shall break and enter, nor shall enter without breaking, any
dwelling, house, tent, hotel, office, store, shop, warehouse, barn, granary,
factory or other building, boat, ship, railroad car or structure used or kept
for public or private use, or any private apartment therein, or any cottage,
clubhouse, boat house, hunting or fishing lodge, garage or the out-buildings
belonging thereto, or any other structure, whether occupied or unoccupied,
without first obtaining permission to enter from the owner, occupant, agent, or
person having immediate control thereof.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.06 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY; RIOT.
   It is unlawful and constitutes an unlawful assembly for a person to assemble
or act in concert with 4 or more persons for the purpose of engaging in conduct
constituting the crime of riot, or to be present at an assembly that either has
or develops such a purpose and to remain there with intent to advance such
purpose or cause, or create a serious risk of causing public terror or alarm.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.07 UNLAWFUL PICKETING AND DEMONSTRATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in lawful picketing or
demonstrating to so picket or demonstrate in such a manner or fashion as to
cause vehicular traffic to be impeded or blocked on any public street or
private drive or parking lot.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any persons engaged in lawful
picketing or demonstrating to so picket or demonstrate in such a manner or
fashion as to impede or block pedestrian traffic to any building, public or
private, or along any sidewalk or walkway.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.08 INCITING.
   No person shall make or incite any disturbance or contention in any tavern,
store, grocery, manufacturing establishment or any other business place or in
any street, lane, alley, highway, public building, grounds, or park, or at any
election or other public meeting where citizens are peaceably and lawfully
assembled.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 147.09 LOITERING PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall loiter, idle, or congregate in any public park within the
confines of the Township of Montrose outside of posted park hours unless
specific written permission is granted by the Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 11-190, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Acknowledgment of State Building Code; designation of enforcing agency
   
150.02   Effective date
Electrical Code
   
150.15   Michigan Electrical Code adopted
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.25   Acknowledgment of International Property Maintenance Code; designation
of enforcing agency
   
150.26   Amendments
Floodplain Management
   
150.40   Agency designated
   
150.41   Code appendix enforced
   
150.42   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF STATE BUILDING CODE; DESIGNATION OF ENFORCING
AGENCY.
   (A)   The Charter Township of Montrose hereby acknowledges that, pursuant to
the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 -
125.1531, as amended, (the “Act”) the building code adopted by the State of
Michigan pursuant to the Act (the “code”) applies throughout the State of
Michigan and is the building code for the Charter Township of Montrose. As
required by § 8a of the Act (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508a), the township hereby
indicates its intent to administer and enforce the building code within the
Charter Township of Montrose.
   (B)   The Township Building Inspector is the township officer responsible
for administering and enforcing the building code within the township.
(Ord. 134, passed 12-18-2001) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect after its adoption and upon publication.
(Ord. 134, passed 12-18-2001)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.15 MICHIGAN ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.1501 - 125.1531, and in particular §§ 8 and 9, the Township of Montrose
hereby elects to adopt by reference the Michigan Electrical Code, and enforce
the same within the township limits. It is further is ordained that the
enforcement provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 -
125.1531, hereby are adopted by the Township of Montrose.
   (B)   It further is ordained that the Township of Montrose designates the
State of Michigan as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibilities of
the township under this subchapter. It further is ordained that enforcement of
the Michigan Electrical Code shall come and be of effect 11-10-1977.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be published in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 77-8, passed 11-14-1977)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.25 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; DESIGNATION
OF ENFORCING AGENCY.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of the International Property Maintenance
Code, as published by the International Code Council which is kept on file in
the Office of the Township Clerk, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the Charter Township of Montrose, in the County of Genesee,
in the State of Michigan for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing standards
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation
and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use, and the demolition of such existing structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the Property Maintenance Code on file in the Office of
the Clerk are hereby referred to adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any prescribed in §
150.26.
   (B)   The Building Inspector and/or the Code Enforcement Officer, if any,
designated by the Township Board shall be responsible for administering and
enforcing the Property Maintenance Code within the township. The official(s)
may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the Township Board
may direct.
(Ord. 150, passed 12-19-2006)
§ 150.26 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code are
hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert “Charter Township of Montrose.”
Section 103.5 Change to read, “The fees for activities and services performed
by the Building Department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code
shall be so adopted from time to time by resolution of the Township Board.”
Section 111.2 Change to read, "Membership of Board. The board of appeals shall
consist of the same membership and conduct its hearings in the same manner as
required by the board of appeals as described in the Zoning Ordinance of the
Township, known as Ordinance No. 99.”
Section 111.2.1 — 111.2.5, Delete
Section 111.3 — 111.7, Delete
Section 302.4 Insert “twelve (12) inches”
Section 304.14 Insert "spring to fall”
Section 602.3 Change and insert to read, "shall supply heat when necessary to
maintain a temperature of not less than 68”
Section 602.4 Change and insert to read, "shall supply heat when necessary to
maintain a temperature of not less than 65”
(Ord. 150, passed 12-19-2006)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
§ 150.40 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 8b(6), as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b
(6), the Building Official of the Charter Township of Montrose is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the
Charter Township of Montrose under Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, State of
Michigan, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 - 125.1531. The Charter Township of
Montrose assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the
Act throughout the corporate limits of the community adopting this section.
(Ord. 09-181, passed 8-18-2009; Am. Ord. 10-187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 150.41 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 8b(6), as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b
(6), Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be enforced by the
enforcing agency within the Charter Township of Montrose.
(Ord. 09-181, passed 8-18-2009; Am. Ord. 10-187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 150.42 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled Genesee County, Michigan (all jurisdictions) and dated September 25,
2009 and the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel numbers 06049C; 0017D,
0019D, 0025D, 0028D, 0030D, 0036D, 0037D, 0038D and 0039D dated September 25,
2009 are adopted by reference for the purposes of administration of the
Michigan Construction Code, and declared to be a part of § 1612.3 of the
Michigan Building Code, and to provide the content of the “Flood Hazards”
section of Table R301.2 (1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 09-181, passed 8-18-2009; Am. Ord. 10-187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person or corporation, including an officer, director, or
employee of a corporation, or a governmental official or agent charged with the
responsibility of issuing permits or inspecting buildings or structures, who
does any of the following is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than $500 and/or imprisonment for not more than 90 days:
         (a)   Knowingly violates the Act or the code or a rule for the
enforcement of the code;
         (b)   Knowingly constructs or builds a structure or building in
violation of a condition of a building permit;
         (c)   Knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by an enforcing
agency or a construction board of appeals;
         (d)   Knowingly makes a false or misleading written statement, or
knowingly omits required information or a statement in an inspection report,
application, petition, request for approval, or appeal to an enforcing agency
or construction board of appeal;
         (e)   Knowingly refuses entry or access to an inspector lawfully
authorized to inspect any premises, building, or structure pursuant to this
act;
         (f)   Unreasonably interferes with an authorized inspection;
         (g)   Knowingly issues, fails to issue, causes to be issued, or
assists in the issuance of a certificate, permit, or license in violation of
this code or a rule promulgated under this code or other applicable laws; and/
or
         (h)   Having a duty to report violations of this code or a rule
promulgated under this code or other applicable laws, knowingly conceals a
violation.
      (2)   With respect to division (A)(1)(c) above, a person is guilty of a
separate offense for each day that the person fails to comply with a stop
construction order validly issued by an enforcing agency and for each week that
the person fails to comply with any other order validly issued by an enforcing
agency. With respect to divisions (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(d) above, a person is
guilty of a separate offense for each knowing violation of this code or a rule
promulgated under this code and for each false or misleading written statement
or omission of required information or statement knowingly made in an
application, petition, request for approval, or appeal to an enforcing agency
or a construction board of appeals. With respect to division (A)(1)(b) above, a
person is guilty of a separate offense for each knowing violation of a
condition of a building permit.
(Ord. 134, passed 12-18-2001)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of §§
150.25 and
150.26 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment for not more than 90 days. Each day
that a violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. The
foregoing penalty shall be in addition to the other rights of the township to
proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper remedies.
(Ord. 150, passed 12-19-2006)
CHAPTER 151: LAND DIVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Prior approval requirement for land divisions
   
151.05   Application for land division approval
   
151.06   Procedures for review of applications for land division approval
   
151.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
151.08   Allowance for approval of other land divisions
   
151.09   Consequences of noncompliance with land division approval requirement
   
151.10   Effective date
Subdivision Development
   
151.20   Title
   
151.21   Purpose
   
151.22   Definitions
   
151.23   Plat approval process
   
151.24   Application for pre-preliminary plat review
   
151.25   Application for preliminary plat review
   
151.26   Final approval of preliminary plat
   
151.27   Approval of final plat
   
151.28   Completion of public improvements
   
151.29   Development required to conform with approved final plat; amendment of
approved final plat
   
151.30   Variance authority and procedure
   
151.31   Division of lots in approved plat
   
151.32   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Montrose Township Land
Division Ordinance.”
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§560.101 - 560.293, as
amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the
creation of parcels of property which do not comply with applicable ordinances
and the Act, to minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly
development of the community, and otherwise provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents and property owners of Montrose Township by
establishing reasonable standards for prior review and approval of land
divisions within the township.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land whether
recorded or not.
      DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than 1 year, or of building development that results
in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of §§108 and 109 of the State Land Division Act.
DIVISION does not include a property transfer between 2 or more adjacent
parcels, if the property taken from 1 parcel is added to an adjacent parcel;
and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the
parcel conforms to the requirements of this Act or the requirements of an
applicable local ordinance.
      EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a
parcel or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs,
executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, that
does not result in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent;
provided all resulting parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and
utilities from existing public roads through existing adequate roads or
easements, or through areas owned by the owner of the parcel that can provide
the access. For a property transfer between 2 or more adjacent parcels, if the
property taken from 1 parcel is added to an adjacent parcel, any resulting
parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to
the requirements of this Act or the requirements of an applicable local
ordinance.
      40 ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
      PARENT PARCEL or PARENT TRACT. A parcel or tract, respectively, lawfully
in existence on the effective date of the amendatory act that added this
subdivision.
   (B)   All other terms and words used herein which are defined in the State
Land Division Act shall have the meanings provided for in the Act.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 151.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR LAND DIVISIONS.
   Land in the township shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Township Assessor, or other official designated by the Township
Board, in accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division Act;
provided that the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the State Land Division Act, the Township’s Subdivision Control Ordinance, and
the Township’s Zoning Ordinance;
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
State Land Division Act, the Township’s Subdivision Control Ordinance, and the
Township’s Zoning Ordinance; and
   (C)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   An applicant shall file an application for land division with the
Township Clerk for review and approval of a proposed land division before
making any division either by deed, land contract, lease for more than 1 year,
or for building development. A proposed division shall not be considered filed
with the township, nor shall the time period for review and approval of the
proposed division required by the State Land Division Act commence until all of
the requirements for an application for land division approval have been
complied with.
   (B)   The application shall contain all of the following:
      (1)   A completed application on the form as determined and provided by
the township;
      (2)   Proof of ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
      (3)   A survey map of the land proposed to be divided, prepared pursuant
to the survey map requirements of Public Act 132 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§
54.211 et seq., as amended, by a land surveyor licensed by the State of
Michigan, and showing the dimensions and legal descriptions of the existing
parcel and the parcels proposed to be created by the division(s), the location
of all existing structures and other land improvements, and the accessibility
of the parcels for vehicular traffic and utilities from existing public roads.
In lieu of the survey map, at the applicant’s option, the applicant may waive
any time requirement imposed by the State Land Division Act or this chapter for
a decision on the application until the survey map and legal descriptions are
filed with the township, and submit a tentative preliminary parcel map drawn to
scale of not less than that provided for on the application form including an
accurate legal description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary
lines, dimensions, and the accessibility of each division from existing or
proposed public roads for automobile traffic and public utilities, for
preliminary review, approval, and/or denial by the locally designated official
prior to a final application under this section. The Montrose Township Board,
or its designated agent, may waive the survey map requirement where the
foregoing tentative parcel map is deemed to contain adequate information to
approve a proposed land division considering the size, simple nature of the
divisions, and the undeveloped character of the territory within which the
property divisions are located. An accurate legal description of all the
proposed divisions, however, shall at all times be required;
      (4)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met;
      (5)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part sufficient to establish the parcel to be
divided was lawfully in existence as of 3-31-1997, the effective date of the
State Land Division Act;
      (6)   Proof that all due and payable taxes or installments of special
assessments pertaining to the land proposed to be divided are paid in full;
      (7)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms, and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer;
      (8)   Unless a division creates a parcel which is acknowledged and
declared to be “not buildable” under §
151.08, all divisions shall result in “buildable” parcels containing sufficient
“buildable” area outside of unbuildable wetlands, floor plains and other areas
where buildings are prohibited therefrom, and with sufficient area to comply
with all required setback provisions, minimum floor areas, off-street parking
spaces, on-site sewage disposal and water well locations (where public water
and sewer service is not available), and maximum allowed area coverage of
buildings and structures on the site; and
      (9)   The fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of
the Montrose Township Board for land division reviews pursuant to this chapter
to cover the costs of review of the application and administration of this
chapter and the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a land division application package, the Township
Clerk shall forthwith submit the same to the Township Assessor or other
designated official for decision. The Township Assessor or other designee shall
approve, with reasonable conditions to assure compliance with applicable
ordinances and the protection of public health, safety, and general welfare, or
disapprove the land division applied for within 30 days after receipt of the
application package conforming to the requirements of this chapter, and shall
promptly notify the applicant in writing of the decision and the reasons for
any denial. If the application package does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter and the State Land Division Act, the Assessor or other designee
shall return the same to the applicant for completion and refiling in
accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division Act.
   (B)   Any other person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Assessor
or designee may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
Montrose Township Board, or the other board or person designated by the
Township Board, which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote
of the board or by the designee at its next regular meeting, affording
sufficient time for 20 days written notice to the applicant (and appellant
where other than the applicant) of the time and date of the meeting and
appellate hearing.
   (C)   Any notice of approval for a resulting parcel of less than 1 acre in
size shall contain a statement that the township is not liable if a building
permit is not issued for the parcel for the reason that the parcel does not
have access to public water or sewer, or the approval of the Genesee County
Health Department for on-site water supply or on-site sewage disposal if the
application package does not conform to the requirements of this chapter or the
State Land Division Act.
   (D)   A decision approving a land division is effective for 90 days, after
which it shall be considered revoked unless within the period a document is
recorded with the County Register of Deeds Office and filed with the municipal
clerk or other designated official accomplishing the approved land division or
transfer.
   (E)   The Township Assessor or designee shall maintain an official record of
all approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   A proposed land division shall be approved if the following criteria are
met.
   (A)   All the parcels to be created by the proposed land division(s) fully
comply with the applicable lot (parcel), yard and area requirements of the
Montrose Township Zoning Ordinance, including, but not limited to, minimum lot
(parcel) frontage/width, minimum road frontage, minimum lot (parcel) area,
minimum lot width and depth ratio, and maximum lot (parcel) coverage and
minimum setbacks for existing buildings/structures.
   (B)   The proposed land divisions comply with all requirements of the State
Land Division Act and this chapter.
   (C)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, to a public road for public
utilities and emergency and other vehicles not less than the requirements of
the Montrose Township Zoning Ordinance or other applicable ordinances of the
township, of a major thoroughfare plan, of a road ordinance or of this chapter.
In determining adequacy of accessibility, any ordinance standards applicable to
plats shall also apply as a minimum standard whenever a parcel or tract is
proposed to be divided to create 4 or more parcels.
   (D)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division does
not exceed that provided for in the Township Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Where accessibility is to be provided by a proposed new dedicated
public road, proof that the Genesee County Road Commission or Michigan
Department of Transportation has approved the proposed layout and construction
design of the road and of utility easements and drainage facilities connected
therewith.
   (F)   Where accessibility by vehicle traffic and for utilities is permitted
through other than a dedicated and accepted public road or easement, the
accessibility shall comply with §18.06 of the Township Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998) Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.08 ALLOWANCE FOR APPROVAL OF OTHER LAND DIVISIONS.
   Notwithstanding disqualification from approval pursuant to this chapter, a
proposed land division which does not fully comply with the applicable lot,
yard, accessibility, and area requirements of the Montrose Township Zoning
Ordinance or this chapter may be approved in any of the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Where the applicant executes and records an affidavit or deed
restriction with the Genesee County Register of Deeds, in a form acceptable to
the township, designating the parcel as “not buildable.” Any such parcel shall
also be designated as “not buildable” in the township’s records and shall not
thereafter be the subject of a request to the Township’s Zoning Board of
Appeals for variance relief from the applicable lot and/or area requirements,
and shall not be developed with any building or above-ground structure four
feet in height;
   (B)   Where, in circumstances not covered by division (A) above, the Zoning
Board of Appeals has, previous to this chapter, granted a variance from the
lot, yard, ratio, frontage, and/or area requirements with which the parcel
failed to comply; and/or
   (C)   Where the proposed land division involves only the minor adjustment of
a common boundary line or involves a conveyance between adjoining properties
which does not result in either parcel violating this chapter, the Montrose
Township Zoning Ordinance, or the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH LAND DIVISION APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   Any parcel created in noncompliance with this chapter shall not be eligible
for any building permits, or zoning approvals, such as special land use
approval or site plan approval, and shall not be recognized as a separate
parcel on the assessment roll. In addition, violation of this chapter shall
submit the violator to the penalties and enforcement actions set forth in
§151.99, and as may otherwise be provided by law.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 151.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect July 1, 1998.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998)
SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT
§ 151.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Montrose Charter Township Subdivision
Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public safety, health and
general welfare by facilitating the orderly layout and development of land
subdivided into plats pursuant to the Land Division Act of the State of
Michigan, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, and further pursuant to the
Township Ordinances Act, Public Act 246 of 1945, as amended.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.22 DEFINITIONS.
   The various words and terms defined in the Land Division Act shall have the
same meaning as used in this subchapter, unless the context indicates
otherwise, and subject to the following specific definitions:
   ACT. The Land Division Act of the State of Michigan, Public Act 288 of 1967,
as amended.
   APPLICANT, OWNER, PROPRIETOR and SUB-DIVIDER are intended to be synonymous
terms referring to the person or entity holding an ownership interest in land
proposed for plat consideration.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Genesee County Health Department or the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality, whichever has jurisdiction in the
particular context.
   PLAT and SUBDIVISION are synonymous terms referring to a map or chart of
land developed pursuant to this subchapter.
   SURVEYOR. A professional surveyor licensed by the State of Michigan, as
provided by Section 102 of the Act.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.23 PLAT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   This subchapter provides for a proposed plat project to be reviewed by the
township administrative official, Township Planning Commission and Township
Board, as follows:
   (A)   Step 1. All plats may be submitted for pre-preliminary approval
through the Planning Commission. The pre-preliminary review will facilitate
early contact between the proprietor and the township, to generally discuss the
conceptual layout of the development, compliance with the substantive
requirements of this subchapter and any other applicable township ordinances
that may apply, and to layout the mandatory review process prescribed by this
subchapter.
   (B)   Step 2. All plats must be submitted for tentative preliminary plat
approval through the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on all proposed
plats before granting or denying a tentative preliminary approval.
         (a)   A public hearing shall be scheduled by the Planning Commission,
and notices posted and mailed to all property owners within 300 feet, in
accordance with the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, through PA 110 of
2006, PA 12 of 2008 and PA 33 of 2008.
         (b)   Any variance/wavier of the requirements of this subchapter or
the Zoning Ordinance must be included in the public hearing notice.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall forward their review and
recommendation to the Board.
      (3)   Within 90 days from the date of filing, the Board shall tentatively
approve and note its approval on the copy of the preliminary plat to be
returned to the proprietor, or set forth in writing its reasons for rejection
and requirements for tentative approval.
      (4)   Tentative approval shall confer upon the proprietor for a period of
1 year from date of approval for lot sizes, lot orientation and street layout.
   (C)   Step 3.  
      (1)   All plats must be submitted for final preliminary approval through
the Board.
      (2)   A review and recommendation from the Planning Commission shall be
required prior to final preliminary plat approval by the Board.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the plat for all necessary
approvals from such authorities as required by Sections 112 to 119 of the Land
Division Act, and shall forward a recommendation to the Board.
   (D)   Step 4. All final plats must be submitted for final plat approval
through the Board. A review and recommendation from the Planning Commission
shall be required prior to final plat approval.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.24 APPLICATION FOR PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW.
   If a proprietor submits for a pre-preliminary plat review to the Planning
Commission, the following items shall be included on the pre-preliminary plat
plan.
   (A)   Tentative location and layout of all streets, intended street names,
the width and dimension of all street rights-of-way, and whether such streets
are intended to be dedicated public streets or maintained as private streets.
   (B)   Tentative layout of all proposed lots, including the shape and
dimensions of same.
   (C)   Tentative location of all proposed and the nearest existing public
water mains, sanitary sewers and storm water sewers, and indicating whether the
proposed plat will be served by public or private water and/or sewer
facilities.
   (D)   Tentative location of storm water drainage features, with arrows
depicting the direction of flow, and indicating in general the methods proposed
for storm water disposal.
   (E)   General site data, including the total acreage of the proposed plat,
and the planning and zoning classifications of the subject property pursuant to
such land use plan and zoning ordinance as may be in effect at the time the
proposed pre-preliminary plat is submitted for review and approval.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.25 APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW.
   (A)   Submission requirements. For approval of a preliminary plat, the
proprietor shall submit 10 copies of the proposed preliminary plat, along with
an application for plat approval as provided for by the township, along with
all supporting materials, to the administrative official. An application fee as
listed in the township’s schedule of fees must be submitted along with the
application. The proposed preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land
surveyor, and shall show at least the following:
      (1)   A scale of not greater than 1 inch equals 200 feet, a north arrow,
and a general vicinity map at a scale of 1 inch to 1,000 feet, with the
appropriate orientation to the proposed development, showing section and
quarter section lines, and any general features located in the vicinity of the
proposed development.
      (2)   The topography of the area proposed to be developed, with not more
than 4-foot contour intervals.
      (3)   The location and layout of all streets, intended street names, the
width and dimension of all street rights-of-way, and whether such streets are
intended to be dedicated public streets or maintained as private streets.
      (4)   The layout of all proposed lots, including the shape and dimensions
of same.
      (5)   The location of all man-made and natural features on and within 100
feet of the proposed plat, including but not limited to, topography, property
lines of adjacent parcels, fence lines, curb cuts, streets, and any other
especially significant features, such as bodies of water and watercourses.
      (6)   The location of all proposed and the nearest existing public water
mains, sanitary sewers and storm water sewers, and indicating whether the
proposed plat will be served by public or private water and/or sewer
facilities.
      (7)   The general location and size of any flood plain and wetlands
within or adjacent to the proposed plat.
      (8)   The location of storm water drainage features, with arrows
depicting the direction of flow, and indicating in general the methods proposed
for storm water disposal.
      (9)   The minimum required and proposed building setback lines on all
lots, indicating the distances from all adjacent street rights-of-way.
      (10)   General site data, including the total acreage of the proposed
plat, and the planning and zoning classifications of the subject property,
pursuant to such land use plan and zoning ordinance as may be in effect at the
time the proposed preliminary plat is submitted for tentative approval.
      (11)   A title block that includes the following information:
         (a)   The name of the proposed plat.
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of each of the following:
the applicant, the owner of the subject property, the applicant's land
surveyor, and the applicant's engineer (where applicable).
         (c)   The location and position of the proposed plat, and an
appropriate legal description of the subject property.
         (d)   The date the proposed preliminary plat was prepared.
         (e)   The seal of the surveyor who prepared the proposed preliminary
plat.
      (12)   If the applicant or owner of the subject property also owns or has
a legal interest in the acquisition of adjoining land that may be developed in
the future as a plat, the applicant shall also submit a tentative conceptual
plan, showing the feasibility of the development of such adjoining land in
relation to the proposed development of the subject property.
   (B)   Review procedure. Upon receiving a complete application for a
preliminary plat submitted for tentative approval, the administrative official
shall submit the same to the Planning Commission for review and approval
consideration. The preliminary plat review shall be conducted at a meeting in
which there is a public hearing scheduled to receive public comments on the
proposed plat. The review by the Planning Commission shall be conducted within
30 days, at which time a recommendation shall be forwarded to the Board. The
Board shall review and either tentatively approve or reject the plat within 90
days after it was submitted to the administrative official.
   (C)   Standards for approval. After receiving the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, the Board shall either tentatively approve and note its
approval on the copy of the preliminary plat; or tentatively approve it,
subject to conditions and note its approval and conditions on a copy of the
preliminary plat; or reject the preliminary plat and set forth in writing its
reasons for same; based on compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and
ordinances, including the following standards:
      (1)   Streets.
         (a)   The proposed plat is in compliance with a street plan adopted by
the township, if any.
         (b)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for a continuation of
existing streets from adjoining areas into the new subdivision. Where adjoining
areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets in the proposed
subdivision shall be extended to the boundary line of the tract to make
provision for the future projection of streets into adjoining areas; provided,
however, that minor streets within the subdivision shall be so laid out that
their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
         (c)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts or contains a county
primary road or major thoroughfare, as designated by the County Road Commission
or a county or township master plan, the Board may require marginal access
streets approximately parallel to the right-of-way of the primary road or major
thoroughfare, and may require such other treatment as is deemed necessary for
the adequate protection of residential properties, and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
         (d)   Private streets within the plat may be permitted by the Board if
new private streets are otherwise allowed in the township pursuant to
applicable ordinances, and if the Board finds that the proposed private streets
within the plat will not adversely affect public health, safety or welfare.
         (e)   Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees, or as closely thereto as
feasible, and in no case less than 80 degrees. All public streets shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the County Road Commission
and the Michigan State Highway Department.
         (f)   The maximum length allowed for residential blocks shall be 1,000
feet.
         (g)   A subdivision or extension of an existing subdivision creating a
total of 50 or more lots shall be developed so as to provide 2 or more access
streets.
         (h)   The street design standards in this subchapter are intended as
minimum standards applicable to all public streets and permitted private
streets within a plat. All public streets shall also be subject to and comply
with such greater design standards applicable to streets in plats as may be
adopted by the County Road Commission or the State Highway Department.
         (i)   Lots shall have such minimum width and area as required by the
Zoning Ordinance for the applicable zoning district.
         (j)   Corner lots generally shall have sufficient extra width to
permit appropriate building setback from both streets.
         (k)   Outlots shall be of a size, extent, and location that will not
impair the intent of the Land Division Act or any applicable ordinance
regulations for land development.
      (2)   General provisions. 
         (a)   Privately-held reserve strips controlling access to streets
shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Existing natural features that add value to residential
development or that enhance the attractiveness of the community (such as
streams, water courses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved insofar as possible in the design of the subdivision.
         (c)   Lands subject to flooding or otherwise determined by the Board
to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential, commercial or
industrial development purposes. Such lands may be set aside for other
purposes, such as parks and/or open space, within a subdivision.
   (D)   Effect and duration of tentative approval of preliminary plat.
Tentative approval of a preliminary plat confers approval of the lot sizes, lot
orientation, and street layout, and application of the then-current plat
regulations, to facilitate preparation and submission of a preliminary plat
plan for final approval, as provided in §
151.26. Tentative approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for 1 year,
subject to extension at the discretion of the Board upon request of the
applicant prior to expiration of the 1-year period.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 FINAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Submission requirements. After a preliminary plat has been tentatively
approved or approved subject to conditions by the County Road Commission, the
County Drain Commissioner and, where applicable, the Michigan Department of
Transportation, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, and the
Health Department, the proprietor for final approval of a preliminary plat
shall submit 10 copies of the tentatively approved preliminary plat and all
supporting materials to the administrative official, including a list of all
authorities required by statute to review the preliminary plat, certifying that
the list shows all such authorities, and the written approvals of the
preliminary plat by such authorities, along with the required application fee.
The proposed preliminary plat submitted for final approval shall be prepared by
a land surveyor and, along with supporting materials, shall show at least the
following:
      (1)   All items required by the Act and by the Board pursuant to the
tentative approval of the preliminary plat, and all items required pursuant to
the tentative approval of the preliminary plat by other governmental agencies.
      (2)   Detailed working drawings showing grades, drainage structures,
proposed utilities, and construction plans for streets, pedestrian sidewalks/
walkways and bicycle paths/lanes, within and adjoining the plat.
      (3)   Documentation of consultation with the governmental authorities
responsible for all public utilities that will be servicing the plat, including
the manner of resolving any conflicts in location between public utility
facilities and other improvements.
         (a)   To the extent private sewage disposal systems are proposed for
any development in the project, a letter from the Health Department shall be
provided, stating that the proposed systems are acceptable and approvable.
         (b)   To the extent private water supply systems are proposed for the
plat, a letter from the Health Department shall be provided, stating that the
proposed water supply systems are acceptable and approvable.
   (B)   Application fee. Fees for final preliminary plat approval shall be
those fees as listed in the township’s schedule of fees as adopted by the
Board.
   (C)   Review procedure.  Upon receiving an administratively complete
application for a preliminary plat submitted for final approval, the
administrative official shall submit same to the Planning Commission for review
and approval. The Planning Commission shall review the final plat for
compliance with the conditions so listed in the approval of the tentative
preliminary plat and forward a recommendation to the Board. Within 20 days from
the date of submission, the Board shall grant final approval of the plat,
pursuant to the approval standards in division (D) below.
   (D)   Standards for approval.  The Board shall approve a preliminary plat
submitted for final approval, if all conditions specified by the Board for
tentative approval of the preliminary plat have been met, and the preliminary
plat complies with all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances, including
the following standards:
      (1)   All public streets shall be subject to and comply with the
construction standards applicable to streets in plats as may be adopted by the
County Road Commission.
      (2)   All surface waters shall be adequately drained within each plat by
a separate system of drainage structures, or through the connection of such
separate system to an adequate adjoining system. All storm water drainage
systems within each plat shall be subject to and comply with the construction
standards applicable to storm water drainage system of the County Drain
Commission.
      (3)   Connection to sanitary sewers and/or water mains may be required by
the Board when it determines that sewers and/or water mains are reasonably
available to the proposed subdivision. All public sanitary sewer and/or water
lines shall be subject to and comply with the construction standards applicable
to sanitary sewer and/or water lines in plats as may be adopted by the County
Drain Commission.
      (4)   The proprietor shall make arrangements for all distribution lines
for telephone, electric, television and other similar services distributed by
wire or cable to be placed underground entirely through a residential
subdivided area. Such conduits or cables shall be placed within private
easements provided to such service companies by the proprietor, or within
dedicated public ways. All such facilities placed in dedicated public ways
shall be planned so as to not conflict with other underground utilities. All
such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of
construction approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission or other
governmental agency with jurisdiction. Private easements for underground
utilities shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
      (5)   Storm water disposal methods proposed for the subdivision shall be
adequate to insure each building site and roadway will not be flooded, and that
all necessary easements for storm sewers or open drains can feasibly be
dedicated to the public for such purposes.
      (6)   No land within the subdivision shall be isolated from a public
thoroughfare, nor shall any adjoining land of the proprietor or others be
isolated from a public thoroughfare, thereby creating landlocked parcels.
      (7)   Street lighting may be required by the township when it is
determined that street lighting is necessary for public health, safety and
welfare.
      (8)   Sidewalks may be required by the township when it is determined
that sidewalks are necessary for pedestrian safety, public health and welfare.
         (a)   When required, sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete, 5
feet in width, 4 inches in depth, upon a 2-inch-minimum sand base, with
expansion joints set at a minimum of 50 feet.
         (b)   Sidewalks built across driveways shall be constructed of
concrete, 6 inches in depth.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be provided with barrier-free ramps at all
intersections.
   (E)   Effect and duration of final approval of preliminary plat.  
      (1)   Final approval of a preliminary plat confers a conditional right
that the general terms and conditions under which preliminary plat approval was
granted will not be changed, to facilitate submission of a final plat for
approval as provided in §
151.27.
      (2)   Final approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for 2 years,
subject to written extension at the discretion of the Board, upon request of
the applicant prior to expiration of the 2-year period.
      (3)   The Township Clerk, or his or her designee, shall send written
notice of any such extension to the other approving authorities.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.27 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT. 
   (A)   Submission requirements. The applicant for approval of a final plat
shall submit 1 true copy of the proposed final plat and all supporting
materials to the administrative official, along with the required application
fees and any other fees as required by M.C.L.A. § 560.241. A final plat shall
not be accepted for review after the date of expiration of the preliminary plat
approval. The proposed final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor and,
along with supporting materials, shall show at least the following:
      (1)   A sworn certificate of the surveyor who made the plat, stating all
of the following on the final plat:
         (a)   The copy is a true copy of the final plat.
         (b)   The final plat is subject to the approval of each of the
governmental officers and agencies whose approval is required under Sections
162 through 169 of the Act, with a list of those officers and agencies.
         (c)   The date of the certificate.
      (2)   All items required by the Board and other governmental agencies
pursuant to the approval of the preliminary plat.
      (3)   An abstract of title or a title insurance policy showing the
proprietor holds merchantable title to all land included within the plat.
      (4)   Formal irrevocable offers of dedication of all public streets and
other public facilities, in a form approved by the governmental agency with
jurisdiction to accept the offers of dedication.
      (5)   Such other information as the Board may require to reasonably
insure the completion of any unfinished public improvements.
   (B)   Application fee. Fees for final plat approval shall be those fees as
listed in the township’s schedule of fees as adopted by the Board.
   (C)   Board review procedure.  
      (1)   Upon receiving an administratively complete application for a final
plat, the administrative official shall submit same to the Board for review and
approval consideration at its next regular meeting, or at a special meeting,
within 20 days after the date of receiving the administratively complete final
plat submission, pursuant to the approval standards in division (D) below.
      (2)   The Board shall instruct the Clerk to record all Board proceedings
on the final plat in the minutes of the meeting, which shall be open for
inspection, and to send a copy of the minutes to the County Plat Board.
         (a)   If the Board approves the final plat, it shall instruct the
Clerk to notify the proprietor of the Board's approval and to certify the
Board's approval, showing the date of the Board's approval, the approval of the
Health Department, when required, and the date of the Health Department’s
approval as shown on the approved preliminary plat.
         (b)   If the Board rejects the final plat, it shall instruct the Clerk
to give the reasons in writing as set forth in the minutes of the meeting, and
to return the unapproved final plat to the proprietor.
         (c)   Upon approval of a final plat, the Clerk shall also send the
filing/recording fee and state plat review fee with the final plat to the Clerk
of the County Plat Board.
   (D)   Standards for approval of final plat. The Board shall approve a final
plat if it conforms to all of the applicable provisions of the Land Division
Act and this subchapter, including but not limited to the following
requirements:
      (1)   All monuments required to be placed in the subdivision have either
been placed, or a performance guarantee agreement has been executed pursuant to
§
151.28 to insure the placement of same.
      (2)   All roads, streets, bridges and culverts have been completed, or a
performance guarantee agreement has been executed pursuant to §
151.28 to insure the completion of same.
      (3)   If the subdivision has any waterways or lagoons, and the like, as
addressed in Section 188 of the Act, all such waterways and the like have been
constructed, or a performance guarantee agreement has been executed pursuant to
§
151.28 to insure the construction of same.
      (4)   If any flood plains lie within the proposed subdivision, such flood
plains shall be restricted, as provided by Section 194 of the Act, and such
restrictions shall be submitted to the Board for review and approval prior to
recording, and thereafter shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds contemporaneously with the recording of the plat.
      (5)   All utilities serving the plat have either been installed and water
and sanitary sewer mains have been stubbed to the lot lines, or a performance
guarantee agreement has been executed pursuant to §
151.28 to insure the completion of same.
      (6)   All underground utility installations, including lines for street
lighting systems, that traverse privately owned property shall be protected by
easements granted by the proprietor and approved by the public utility.
         (a)   These easements shall be recorded on the final plat as private
easements for public utilities or easements provided by separate instrument.
         (b)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines
provided for utilities shall be at least 12 feet wide (preferably 1/2 from each
lot), except 3-feet-wide side lot easements granted for street lighting drop-
outs.
         (c)   These easements shall be direct and continuous from block to
block.
      (7)   All public improvements, such as street lights, fire hydrants,
sidewalks, parks, and the like, required by the township have been completed
and installed, or a performance guarantee agreement has been executed pursuant
to §
151.28 to insure the completion of same.
      (8)   The dedication of public streets and other public facilities has
been executed by all required owners.
   (E)   Effect of approval of final plat. Approval of a final plat by the
Board, and by all other governmental officers and agencies whose approval is
required, and the recording of the approved final plat as required by the Act,
confers approval of the plat to facilitate the construction thereof, and the
sale and development of lots therein, in accordance with the approved final
plat and all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.28 COMPLETION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Completion required. The construction of all public improvements shall
be completed by the applicant and approved by the Board prior to final plat
approval.
   (B)   Alternate performance guarantee agreement.  
      (1)   In the alternative, as to those requirements that are over and
beyond the requirements of any other approving agency or any agency responsible
for the administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public
improvements, the Board may, at its discretion, require the applicant to
guarantee completion of such required improvements as provided in this section.
      (2)   In such instances, the township and the applicant shall enter into
a written agreement, specifying in detail the nature of the required
improvements, the time in which these improvements are to be completed,
provisions for verifying and inspecting the construction of such improvements
to determine their conformity to the approved plans and specifications, and the
nature of the financial guarantee of performance to be provided for each
improvement.
   (C)   Acceptable types of performance guarantees. Where the Board agrees to
accept performance guarantees for the completion of public improvements
subsequent to final plat approval, the Board may require 1 or more of the
following types of guarantees:
      (1)   Performance or surety bond.
      (2)   Cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank
letter of credit.
   (D)   Remuneration from performance guarantee instrument. The performance
guarantee agreement may provide for progressive remuneration from the
applicable financial instruments, upon certification by the Township Engineer
that the specific required public improvement has been satisfactorily
completed/installed.
   (E)   Penalty for failure to complete improvements.  
      (1)   If the applicant fails to complete a required public improvement
within a period of time specified in the performance guarantee agreement, the
Board may, at its option, proceed to have the public improvement completed.
      (2)   In such event, the township shall be reimbursed for all costs
associated with the completion of an improvement, from the performance
guarantee instrument provided for that improvement.
      (3)   The applicant shall be liable to the township for any amount of
such costs exceeding the funds available from the pertinent instrument.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.29 DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED TO CONFORM WITH APPROVED FINAL PLAT; AMENDMENT OF
APPROVED FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   All development of an approved plat project shall strictly conform to
the final plat approved pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Any amendment to or modification of an approved final plat shall be
submitted for review and approval consideration pursuant to §§
151.24 through
151.27, and as otherwise required by the Act.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.30 VARIANCE AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Variance authority and standards. With concurrence from the Board, the
Planning Commission may grant variances/waivers from the design and approval
requirements of this subchapter, or from the Zoning Ordinance, when it is
determined that the following standards are satisfied in the circumstances of
each specific case:
      (1)   Strict compliance with the ordinance requirement would result in a
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship because of the particular physical
surroundings, shape, or topographical conditions of the tract of property
involved, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience or economic hardship.
      (2)   The variance/waiver may be granted without detriment to the public
safety, health, or general welfare, or damage to other property.
      (3)   The ordinance requirement at issue is not applicable to the
specific situation at issue; or the purpose is applicable but may be served
even if a variance is granted.
      (4)   The conditions upon which the request for variance is based are
unique to the subject property and not applicable generally to property outside
of the proposed plat.
      (5)   Approval of a variance/waiver will not in any manner result in a
violation of any ordinance or any other requirement of law.
      (6)   The conditions providing support for the variance/waiver were not
created by the applicant or the applicant's predecessors in title.
   (B)   Variance application procedures.  
      (1)   A request for a variance/waiver from any requirement of this
subchapter or the Zoning Ordinance shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission
during the tentative preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   All variance/waiver requests shall be published in the public
notice as required in §
151.23.
      (3)   The request shall state the grounds for the requested variance/
waiver, and all the facts relied upon in support thereof.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall include in its recommendation to the
Board a list of all variances/waivers included in the approval of a preliminary
plat.
      (5)   Any denial of a variance/waiver by the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the Board when it reviews the preliminary plat for tentative
approval.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.31 DIVISION OF LOTS IN APPROVED PLAT.
   (A)   Prohibited actions. The following actions are prohibited:
      (1)   The division or partitioning of a lot in a recorded plat without
prior approval of the Planning Commission as required by this subchapter.
      (2)   The commencement of construction on, or the application for a
building permit for such construction, on any portion of a lot in a plat that
was divided without prior approval of the Planning Commission as required by
this subchapter.
      (3)   The submission of any document for recording involving the division
or partitioning of a lot in a recorded plat without prior approval of such
division or partitioning by the Planning Commission as required by this
subchapter.
   (B)   Lot division authority. After a plat has been fully approved and
recorded, the Planning Commission may approve the partitioning or division of a
lot therein in the following circumstances:
      (1)   No intent to create separate buildable lot. When the application
states that the sole purpose of the requested division is to add land to
adjoining existing lots or parcels and not to create a new separate buildable
lot, the Planning Commission may approve the application, if the requested
division will not cause any remaining portion of the original lot developed or
intended for development in violation of any provision of this subchapter, or
of the provisions of such zoning ordinance, as may be in effect at the time of
such application, concerning minimum lot frontage/width, minimum lot area, and
minimum setbacks.
      (2)   Intent to create new buildable lot. In situations not within the
scope of the preceding paragraph, the Planning Commission may approve the
division of a lot into not more than 4 parts, upon determining that the
following criteria are satisfied:
         (a)   All of the resulting lots comply with the applicable
requirements of this subchapter, and such zoning ordinance, as may be in effect
at the time of the application, with respect to minimum lot frontage/width,
minimum lot area, and minimum setbacks;
         (b)   The resulting lots will each have direct access to a street as
required by this subchapter;
         (c)   The resulting lots will each have access to public and/or
private utility services;
         (d)   All such resulting lots conform in all respects to all
applicable ordinances and the Land Division Act;
         (e)   The proposed division will not cause an unreasonable detriment
to any adjoining property;
         (f)   The proposed division will not for any other reason be contrary
to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
   (C)   Application procedures.  
      (1)   A request for lot division approval shall be initiated by filing an
application with the administrative official, setting forth the purpose of the
proposed division.
      (2)   The application form shall be accompanied by a survey showing the
original lot and all lots proposed to result from the requested division,
including all dimensions thereof and the legal descriptions therefor.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may approve a lot division, deny a lot
division, or approve a lot division with appropriate lawful conditions.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on a lot
division application in accordance with the provision of the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, as amended.
   (D)   Application fee. The fee for consideration of a lot division
application pursuant to this section shall be that fee as listed in the
township’s schedule of fees, as approved from time to time by the Board.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.32 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on November 11, 2008.
(Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
151.01 et seq. shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not
to exceed 90 days or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
151.20 et seq., or failure to comply with any of their requirements, shall be
deemed a municipal civil infraction, as defined by state statute, and shall be
punishable by a civil fine of not less than $500, along with costs that may
include all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the township has been put
in connection with the municipal civil infraction.
      (1)   A violator of §§
151.20 et seq. shall also be subject to such additional sanctions and judicial
orders as are authorized under Michigan law.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of §§
151.20 et seq. continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation of this
subchapter.
      (3)   Nothing in §§
151.20 et seq. shall prevent the Board or a private citizen from taking such
additional lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation
of this subchapter or the Michigan Land Division Act.
(Ord. 112, passed 6-15-1998; Am. Ord. 175, passed 11-10-2008)
CHAPTER 152: TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Zoning requirement
   
152.02   General provisions
   
152.03   Registration of occupants
   
152.04   Conditions and limitations
   
152.05   Trailer park size and lot size
   
152.06   Buffer zone
   
152.07   Parking and sidewalks
   
152.08   Space requirements; maximum occupancy
   
152.09   Water and sewage facilities
   
152.10   Safety and health provisions
   
152.11   Transit trailers and/or parks
   
152.12   Summer trailer and/or mobile parks
   
152.13   Enforcement
   
152.14   Suspension or revocation
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 ZONING REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, operate or maintain a
trailer, mobile home, or manufactured home park in Montrose Township without
first having obtained a rezoning of the proposed area to a classification
commonly known as Mobile Home/Manufactured Home Park District (MHP), and
subject to the site plan review requirements of §§
153.230 through
153.243 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application for an initial annual trailer coach or mobile home park
license shall be filed with the Township Clerk of Montrose Township. The
application shall be in writing on forms prescribed by the Township Board,
signed by the applicant, and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal address and description of the property
proposed for the use;
      (3)   A complete plot plan of the park drawn to scale;
      (4)   Plans and specifications of all buildings, improvements, and
facilities to be constructed within the park; and
      (5)   Any additional information required by the Township Board or
Township Zoning Board to assist in determining compliance with state statutes
and local requirements.
   (B)   When construction is completed, the Township Supervisor or his or her
designated agent, or other agent designated by the Township Board for this
purpose, shall ascertain that the construction is in accord with the plans and
specifications submitted for the construction and that all applicable
provisions of this and other ordinances, statutes, and regulations have been
complied with. Upon receipt of a favorable report and approval in writing from
the designated official, the Township Clerk shall issue the license. The
licensee shall file a copy of the approved plan with the Township Clerk.
   (C)   Licenses shall be renewed annually upon receipt of a proper
application and fee, the Township Supervisor or other designated official, with
the approval of the Township Board shall issue a certificate of authorization
to the Township Clerk to renew the license for another year.
   (D)   The fee accompanying the land use permit in zoned areas shall not be
considered the license fee. The fee shall be established by the Township Board,
and shall be $10 for the first 25 trailer sites and $.50 for each trailer site
over 25 per year.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new trailer parks
and alterations to existing parks. If any alterations or additions have taken
place in the trailer park, the applicant must furnish a revised plan,
indicating the changes when submitting application for license renewal.
   (F)   No trailer space within the trailer park shall be occupied for
dwelling purposes until construction of all sewer, water, and electrical
service, paving and street and parking area lighting have been completed and
approved or received permission by the Montrose Township Board for partial
occupancy.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 REGISTRATION OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each licensee and permittee to maintain a
register containing a record of all trailer coach owners and occupants located
within the park.
   (B)   The occupant register shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and legal address of all occupants;
      (2)   The name and address of each trailer coach;
      (3)   The make, type, model, year, and license number of each trailer
coach and motor vehicle as well as the registration number of each trailer
coach and the state and year in which registered;
      (4)   The date of arrival and departure of each trailer coach; and
      (5)   The forwarding address of each occupant.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   The conditions and limitations shall conform to all requirements imposed by
Public Act 419 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., and amendments
thereto, except as the acts may be modified by the provisions herein.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 TRAILER PARK SIZE AND LOT SIZE.
Mobile home, and/or manufactured home parks shall comply with the requirements
of §§
153.095 through
153.099 of this code of ordinances, as amended.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 BUFFER ZONE.
   (A)   There shall be a 10-foot planting strip entirely surrounding the park,
in which there shall be trees and shrubs so planted, and arranged to grow to
the heights as will effectively screen the trailers which are in the park from
the surrounding areas.
   (B)   The mobile home park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
   (C)   Each boundary of the park must be at least 200 feet from any permanent
residential buildings located outside the park, or highways or public streets,
unless separated therefrom by a natural or artificial barrier, or unless a
majority of the property owners, according to area within the 200 feet, consent
in writing to the establishment of the park.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 PARKING AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Each trailer site will be provided with adequate parking facilities
and the area shall be of asphalt or concrete, and be a minimum of 400 square
feet, and shall be so located as not to interfere with neighboring sites in the
park.
   (B)   In addition, walk-ways not less than 36 inches wide of concrete or
macadum, shall be provided from the mobile home spaces to the service buildings
and in front of the mobile site, and further, the sidewalks shall not be
counted as a part of the public street, alley, or highway, and the sidewalk
shall be in front of each mobile home.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 SPACE REQUIREMENTS; MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The maximum number of occupants of a trailer coach shall be limited to
the number determined on the basis of the square feet of floor area of
habitable space, exclusive of habitable space used for cooking and toilet
purposes, in accordance with the following formula:
      (1)   Three hundred square feet for 1 or 2 occupants; and
      (2)   One hundred square feet for each additional occupant beyond 2.
   (B)   Habitable space shall have a minimum ceiling height of 7 feet over 50%
of the floor area. Floor area where ceiling height is less than 5 feet, 6
inches, shall not be considered in computing gross floor area.
   (C)   Each trailer coach shall have a safe and unobstructed primary exit and
emergency exit located away from the primary exit.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 WATER AND SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   Plans and specifications for water and sewage facilities shall have the
approval of the Montrose Township, Genesee County Health Departments, and the
Michigan State Health Department, prior to construction. A certificate of
approval from each of these agencies must be on file with the Township Clerk
after final inspection of the completed facilities.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 SAFETY AND HEALTH PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No animal washing or car washing or other practices involving
quantities of water shall be carried on in any mobile home park, or in any
building structure, or any place within the mobile home park, not designated
and approved for the purposes.
   (B)   No domestic animals or house pets shall be allowed to run at large or
commit any nuisance within the limits of the mobile home park.
   (C)   Grass shall be mowed and kept in a neat condition.
   (D)   Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire extinguishing
equipment in good working order, of the type, size, and number so located
within the park as to satisfy applicable regulations of the Michigan State Fire
Code. No open fires shall be permitted at any place which may endanger life or
property. No fire shall be left unattended at any time. Fire extinguishers
shall bear the underwriter’s label and be of such a type approved for the
service by the Commissioner of the State Police. Each fire extinguisher shall
be periodically examined and kept at all times in a usable condition in
compliance with regulations of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 TRANSIT TRAILERS AND/OR PARKS.
   (A)   Applications may be filed as provided for in this chapter for transit
trailer and/or park licenses.
   (B)   No transit trailer or space shall be occupied for parking transit
trailers until construction has been made and installed or proper sewer
facilities, water supply approved by the Montrose Township Board of Health and
the State Health Department, and proper electrical service has been completed
in accordance with the Michigan State Electrical Code and the Montrose Township
Building Code; further, that paving, street, and parking area are properly
lighted and completed, or have received permission by the Montrose Township
Board for partial occupancy.
   (C)   Registration of occupants for transit trailer parks will be the same
as provided under this chapter.
   (D)   The conditions and limitations shall conform to all requirements
opposed by Public Act 419 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., and
amendments thereto, except as the acts may be modified by the provisions
herein.
   (E)   The area will be a separate area from any trailer park mobile home
area, and the meaning of this section is for the sole purpose of making the
transit trailer area a separate and distinct part from the trailer park mobile
home area. The time limit on a transit trailer in the area will be for a period
of 14 consecutive days and then they cannot come back until 14 days have
elapsed.
   (F)   The operator of the transit trailer park area shall provide adequate
spacing of trailers as the case may be, no trailer may be parked closer than 10
feet from an adjoining trailer. Parking will be provided for by the operator of
the transit trailer park area sufficient to park 2 vehicles in space not less
than 20 feet by 20 feet. Each transit trailer park area will provide ample
disposal for all refuse and that the area involved will be maintained free from
organic and inorganic material that might become a health hazard, accident, or
fire hazard, the refuse disposal must be specifically approved by the Montrose
Township Department of Health.
   (G)   The provisions of §
152.10 shall specifically apply to transit trailer and/or trailer parks.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 SUMMER TRAILER AND/OR MOBILE PARKS.
   All provisions with relation to the operation of transit trailers and/or
parks shall apply to the operation or maintenance of summer trailers and/or
summer trailers mobile home parks.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Township Building Inspector, or
other agent appointed by the Montrose Township Board. One or more of the above
shall, in the performance of their duties, inspect the premises during normal
business hours and at any time in case of emergency. Owners or operators of
trailer parks shall provide access to the premises under their control for the
enforcement officials acting in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, the Township Board, the Township Attorney, the
Township Health Officer, the Prosecuting Attorney of Genesee County, any owner
or owners of real estate within the area in which the trailer coach park is
situated or any other aggrieved person may institute injunction mandamus,
abatement, or other appropriate proceedings to correct violations of this
chapter. The rights and remedies herein provided are accumulative and in
addition to all other remedies provided by law. Action may be brought in any
court within the county otherwise granted jurisdiction by statute of the
Constitution of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970)
§ 152.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Township Board may suspend or revoke any license or permit to
operate or maintain trailer coach park, when the licensee violates any
provision of this chapter. After the suspension or revocation, the annual
license may be reissued if the circumstances leading to the revocation have
been remedied.
   (B)   No license shall be revoked until the licensee has had 20 days notice
in writing of the revocation and the reasons therefor. If a written request is
filed within 20 days of the date of the revocation, the Township Board shall
conduct a hearing on the matter. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude an
appeal of a decision of the Township Board to the Circuit Court of Genesee
County.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates, neglects, or refuses to
comply with any provision of this chapter shall be fined upon conviction
thereof, not more than $300 together with the cost of prosecution or shall be
punished by the imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 30 days for
each such offence or may be both fined and imprisoned at the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 1, passed 4-22-1970)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Preamble
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Conflicts
   
153.005   Construction of language
   
153.006   Definitions
   
153.007   Illustrations for certain definitions
  Zoning Districts and Zoning Map
   
153.020   Districts established
   
153.021   Zoning map and boundaries
   
153.022   District boundaries interpreted
   
153.023   Zoning of vacated areas
Agricultural District (AG)
   
153.035   Intent
   
153.036   Permitted uses
   
153.037   Special land uses
   
153.038   Site development standards
Residential Farm District (RF)
   
153.050   Intent
   
153.051   Permitted uses
   
153.052   Special land uses
   
153.053   Site development standards
Residential Suburban District (RS)
   
153.065   Intent
   
153.066   Permitted uses
   
153.067   Special land uses
   
153.068   Site development standards
Recreation/Conservation District (R/C)
   
153.080   Intent
   
153.081   Permitted uses
   
153.082   Special land uses
   
153.083   Site development standards
Mobile Home/Manufactured Home Park District (MHP)
   
153.095   Intent
   
153.096   Permitted uses
   
153.097   Special land uses
   
153.098   General site regulations
   
153.099   Site development standards
Multiple-Family Residential District (RM)
   
153.110   Intent
   
153.111   Permitted uses
   
153.112   Special land uses
   
153.113   Site development standards
Office Service District (O-S)
   
153.125   Intent
   
153.126   Permitted uses
   
153.127   Special land uses
   
153.128   Site development standards
Neighborhood Commercial District (C-1)
   
153.140   Intent
   
153.141   Permitted uses
   
153.142   Special land uses
   
153.143   Site development standards
  General Commercial District (C-2)
   
153.155   Intent
   
153.156   Permitted uses
   
153.157   Special land uses
   
153.158   Site development standards
Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
153.170   Intent
   
153.171   Permitted uses
   
153.172   Special land uses
   
153.173   Site development standards
  Heavy Industrial District (I-2)
   
153.185   Intent
   
153.186   Permitted uses
   
153.187   Special land uses
   
153.188   Site development standards
  Schedule of Regulations; Height, Bulk, Density, and Area by Zoning District
   
153.200   Density, area, height, bulk, and placement regulations
   
153.201   Footnotes to schedule of regulations
  Special Land Use Application and Review Procedures
   
153.215   Intent
   
153.216   Application procedures
   
153.217   Designated review authority and hearing procedure
   
153.218   Basis for review and determination
   
153.219   Special land use standards
Review and Approval Procedures for Site Plans and Condominium Development
Projects
   
153.230   Required site plan review
   
153.231   Application procedure
   
153.232   Required site plan information
   
153.233   Site plan review standards
   
153.234   Planning Commission action
   
153.235   Performance guarantee and revocation for approved site plans
   
153.236   Changes to approved site plans
   
153.237   Required condominium development review
   
153.238   Compliance with zoning regulations
   
153.239   Approval required; process
   
153.240   Preliminary plan approval
   
153.241   Site plan approval
   
153.242   Final engineering approval
   
153.243   Additional regulations applicable to condominium projects
Development Requirements for Excavation and Extraction Activities, Ponds and
Private Roads
   
153.255   Intent
   
153.256   Excavation and extraction; sand, soil, gravel and mineral removal
   
153.257   Site development regulations and standards
   
153.258   Ponds
   
153.259   General provisions
   
153.260   Private road
   
153.261   Existing nonconforming private roads and access easements
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
153.275   Parking requirements
   
153.276   Parking units of measurement
   
153.277   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.278   Barrier free parking requirements
   
153.279   Parking space layout, standards, construction and maintenance
   
153.280   Off-street waiting area for drive-through facilities
   
153.281   Loading and unloading
Sign Regulations
   
153.295   Purpose
   
153.296   Sign definitions
   
153.297   General conditions
   
153.298   Residential and agricultural districts
   
153.299   Commercial and industrial districts
   
153.300   Permitted signs in all districts
   
153.301   Prohibited signs
   
153.302   Nonconforming signs
Landscaping Standards
   
153.315   Purpose
   
153.316   General requirements
   
153.317   Landscaping design standards
   
153.318   Greenbelt buffer
   
153.319   Earth berms
   
153.320   Parking lot landscaping
   
153.321   Landscaping of right-of-way areas
   
153.322   Plant materials
General Provisions
   
153.335   Scope
   
153.336   Single-family dwelling requirements
   
153.337   Lot size averaging
   
153.338   Single-family cluster housing option
   
153.339   Building grades
   
153.340   Buildings and or structures accessory to agricultural and single-
family residential uses
   
153.341   Accessory buildings in other districts
   
153.342   Horses
   
153.343   Fences
   
153.344   One principal building per lot
   
153.345   Lot, height, yard projection, and corner lot requirements
   
153.346   Clear vision zone
   
153.347   Lot grades
   
153.348   Curb cuts and driveways
   
153.349   Rummage sales prohibited except under certain conditions
   
153.350   Outdoor merchandising
   
153.351   Temporary buildings and structures
   
153.352   Temporary living quarters
   
153.353   Private swimming pools
   
153.354   Approval of temporary uses
   
153.355   Recreational vehicle storage
   
153.356   Screening of trash storage areas
   
153.357   Antennas and towers and satellite dish antennas
   
153.358   On-site sewage disposal systems
   
153.359   Water supply
   
153.360   Livestock
   
153.361   Adult entertainment
   
153.362   Public nudity
   
153.363   Obscenity
   
153.364   Wind energy conversion systems
   
153.365   Communication towers
   
153.366   Home occupations
   
153.367    Primary caregiver home occupations (PCHO)
Nonconforming Lots, Structures, and Uses of Land and Structures
   
153.380   Purpose
   
153.381   Nonconforming lots
   
153.382   Nonconforming uses of land
   
153.383   Nonconforming structures
   
153.384   Nonconforming uses of structures and land
   
153.385   Repairs and maintenance
   
153.386   Special land uses not nonconforming uses
   
153.387   Change of tenancy or ownership
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.400   Establishment and membership
   
153.401   Appeals
   
153.402   Powers and duties
   
153.403   Decisions
   
153.404   Rehearing
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.415   Enforcement
   
153.416   Administrative official
   
153.417   Private covenants
   
153.418   Zoning compliance permits
   
153.419   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.420   Planning Commission
   
153.421   Fees
   
153.422   Amendments
   
153.423   Violations
   
153.424   Public nuisance per se
   
153.425   Each day a separate offense
   
153.426   Rights and remedies are cumulative
   
153.427   Zoning - public hearing requirements
   
153.428   Master plan
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The Charter Township of Montrose, Genesee County, Michigan, pursuant
to the authority vested in it by Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, hereby
amends the Montrose Township Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   This Zoning Ordinance is based upon the Charter Township of Montrose
Community Master Plan. The purpose is to protect and promote public health,
safety, and the general welfare of the community.
   (C)   Zoning districts have been established to encourage use of resources
in accordance with their character and adaptability; to avoid the overcrowding
of land by buildings or people; to lessen congestion on public roads and
streets; and to facilitate provisions for a system of transportation, sewage
disposal, safe and adequate water supply, recreation, education and other
public improvements; to provide adequate light and air; and to conserve the
expenditure of funds for public improvements and services to conform with the
most advantageous uses of land resources and properties.
   (D)   This chapter sets forth procedures for adoption of amendments to this
chapter and establishes an appeal process through the Township Zoning Board of
Appeals and provides for penalties for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996 ; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007 )
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited and referred to as the "Charter
Township of Montrose Zoning Ordinance."
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 1.01)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the establishment of zoning
districts within which the proper use of land and natural resources may be
encouraged and regulated, and further to:
   (A)   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare;
   (B)   Encourage the use of land in accordance with its character and
adaptability and to limit the improper use of land;
   (C)   Conserve natural resources and energy;
   (D)   Ensure that uses of the land shall be situated in appropriate
locations and relationships;
   (E)   Provide adequate light and air;
   (F)   Lessen congestion on the public roads and streets; and
   (G)   Reduce hazards to life and property.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 1.02)
§ 153.004 CONFLICTS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinance, except those
repealed by this chapter.
   (B)   Nor is it the intent of this chapter to remove any private
restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement;
provided, however, that any provision of this chapter that imposes more
stringent requirements, or limitations upon the use or erection of land and
buildings than are imposed or required by the provisions of any other law or
ordinance, or any rules, regulations, permits, or easements, than the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (C)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal other powers granted under state
statues.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 1.03)
§ 153.005 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows.
   (A)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation, as well as an individual.
   (B)   The present tense includes the future tense, and the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   (C)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED, DESIGNED, or
ARRANGED to be used or occupied.
   (D)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive.
   (E)   The particular shall control the general.
   (F)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (G)   A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 2.01)
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to, the principal use.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY.
      (1)   A governmental or non-governmental establishment subject to state
licensing procedures as may be required having as its principal function the
receiving of adults for foster care.
      (2)   It includes facilities and foster care family homes for adults who
are aged, emotionally disturbed, developmentally disabled, or physically
handicapped who require supervision on an ongoing basis but who do not require
continuous nursing care.
      (3)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY does not include a nursing home, a home
for the aged, an alcohol or a substance abuse rehabilitation center, a hospital
for the mentally ill, released from and assigned to a correctional facility or
similar facilities.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE; FAMILY HOME.
      (1)   A private residence subject to state licensing with the approved
capacity to receive not more than 6 adults who shall be provided foster care
for 5 or more days per week, and for 2 or more consecutive weeks.
      (2)   The ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME licensee shall be a member of the
household and an occupant of the residence.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE; LARGE GROUP HOME. An adult foster care facility subject
to state licensing with the approved capacity to receive at least 13, but not
more than 20 adults who shall be provided supervision, personal care, and
protection, in addition to room and board, for 24 hours a day, 5 or more days a
week, and for 2 or more consecutive weeks for compensation.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE; SMALL GROUP HOME. An adult foster care facility subject
to state licensing with the approved capacity to receive 12 or fewer adults who
shall be provided supervision, personal care, and protection, in addition to
room and board, for 24 hours a day, 5 or more days a week, and for 2 or more
consecutive weeks for compensation.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND. Land substantially undeveloped and devoted to the
production of plants and animals useful to humans, including but not limited
to, forage and sod crops, grains, feed crops, field crops, dairy products,
poultry and poultry products, livestock, herbs, flowers, seeds, grasses,
nursery stock, fruits, vegetables, Christmas trees, and other similar uses and
activities.
   AIRCRAFT LANDING STRIP (PRIVATE). The use of land for the landing or taking
off of aircraft by a proprietor residing in a housing unit contiguous to the
site of the aircraft landing strip, and may include facilities for the shelter
of aircraft but does not include the boarding or care of aircraft owned by
anyone other than occupants of the housing unit in common ownership with the
aircraft landing strip.
   AIRPORTS (PRIVATE OR PUBLIC). The use of land for the landing or take off of
aircraft, which provides facilities for the shelter, supply or care of
aircraft, or for receiving or discharging passengers or cargo and all
appurtenant areas used or acquired for airport buildings or other airport
facilities.
   ALTERED. Any change in the use of or in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, posts, beams, girders, and similar components.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility that is used to house or contain animals and is
owned, operated, or maintained by a nonprofit entity for the purpose of
providing temporary kenneling and care for animals, for the purpose of locating
permanent adoptive homes for them.
   AREA, FLOOR.
      (1)   Constitutes the total floor area occupied by a use and measured to
include all space used primarily or incidentally for the use.
      (2)   FLOOR AREA shall not include those areas included within the
"altered" definition.
   AREA, SALES. Only includes that area customarily open and accessible to the
public.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR FACILITY (GARAGE, REPAIR). Any building, premises, or
land, or combination thereof in which or upon which a business, service, or
industry involving the maintenance, storage, care, servicing, repair, including
both minor and major mechanical overhauling, painting and body work of motor
vehicles is conducted or rendered within an enclosed building or an enclosed
area.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (CONVENIENCE STORES WITH GASOLINE SERVICE).  
      (1)   Any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products are sold
and/or light maintenance activities such as engine tune-ups, lubrication, minor
repairs, and carburetor cleaning are conducted. Dispensing of gasoline may be
an attendant or the customer.
      (2)   SERVICE STATIONS shall not include premises where heavy automobile
maintenance activities such as engine overhauls, automobile painting, and body
fender work are conducted.
   BASEMENT. A space having 1/2 or more of its floor-to-ceiling height below
the average level of the adjoining ground and with a floor-to-ceiling height of
not less than 7 feet (See §
153.007 below).
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A single-family dwelling in which transit
guests are provided a sleeping room, breakfast and access to bathing and
lavatory facilities in return for payment.
   BERM. A mound of soil graded, shaped, and improved with landscaping in a
fashion so as to be utilized for screening purposes.
   BLOCK FACE. A block face is defined as and consists of those properties
fronting along an existing right-of-way and located between the intersections
of existing streets, or between intersections and dividers such as rivers,
railroads, and other similar natural or human-made features.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals as provided under
provisions of the Township Rural Zoning Act, being Public Act 184 of 1943,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 through 125.301, as amended, with powers and duties
as defined herein, and referred to alternatively as the BOARD OF APPEALS.
   BUILDABLE LAND. The space remaining after the minimum setbacks, natural
rivers, open space, floodplain areas, wetland, and natural features buffer
requirements of this chapter or state or federal regulations have been complied
with.
   BUILDING. Any structure (excluding fences) having a roof or walls and built
for, or capable of, the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
property of any kind.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The ground area occupied, or to be occupied by, the
principal structure which is, or is intended to be, placed on a building site,
together with any attached accessory structures, e.g. house and attached
garage.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the grade at the center of the
front of the building to the highest point of the roof surface in a flat roof,
to the deck line for mansard roofs, and to the mean height level between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs (See §
153.007 below).
   BUILDING PERMIT. An authorization issued by the administrative official to
move, erect or alter a structure within the township in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   BUILDING SITE. Condominium unit, including the building envelope and the
contiguous limited common area or element under and surrounding the building
envelope, and shall be the counter-part "lot" as used in connection with a
project developed under the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
   CAR WASH ESTABLISHMENT. A building, or portion thereof, the primary purposes
of which is that of washing motor vehicles, whether by the owner or driver,
attendants or mechanical devices.
   CELLAR. That portion of a structure with not less than 3 walls thereof,
partly below grade and so located so that the vertical distance from the grade
to the floor is greater than the vertical distance from the grade to the
ceiling with a ceiling height of less than 7 feet (See §
153.007 below).
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. The `Township Supervisor.
   CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A development designed for a site
containing unique topographical, environmental, agricultural, or natural areas
or designed as a method for infilling an appropriate parcel which is surrounded
by existing development.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. An area of land designated for the purpose
of producing photovoltaic electricity, which the power generated from a solar
power system is sold to electric companies for distribution throughout the
power grid. A COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM shall be a principal use of a
property and may occupy the same property as another principal use. A
COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM is commonly known as a Solar Farm.
   COMMUNITY MASTER PLAN or GENERAL PLAN. The comprehensive community master
plan for the Charter Township of Montrose.
   CONDITIONAL USE. See SPECIAL LAND USE.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM PLAN.
      (1)   The drawings and information attached to the master deed including,
but not limited to, a survey plan, floodplain plan, site plan, utility plan,
floor plans, description of the size, location, area, and horizontal boundaries
of each unit, number assigned to each unit, vertical boundaries and volume of
each unit, building sections, and description of the nature location, and size
of common elements.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, a CONDOMINIUM PLAN shall be
equivalent to the term CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN as defined by M.C.L.A. §
559.104.
   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A plan or project consisting of not less than 2
condominium units established and approved in conformance with the provisions
of the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
through 559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT.
      (1)   That portion of a condominium project which is designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed,
regardless of whether it is intended for residential, office, industrial,
business, recreational use as a time-share unit, or any other type of use.
      (2)   In condominium projects where a condominium unit(s) will consist of
a building envelope, the term CONDOMINIUM UNIT shall be equivalent to the term
LOT for purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter
pertaining to minimum size, minimum lot, width, maximum lot coverage, and the
like.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A structure with sleeping rooms where persons
are housed or lodged and are furnished with meals and nursing or limited
medical care and possesses a state license.
   CORRAL OR BARNYARD; GRAZING AND PASTURING. A pen or enclosure for confining
animals or livestock, but not including an area for grazing of so.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street terminated at 1 end, with a turning radius.
   DAY CARE. Day care homes and centers are defined as follows.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A place subject to state licensing which receives
children for care, maintenance and supervision in a structure other than a
private residence for less than 24 a day, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian, and any place, including a private residence, which receives more
than 7 children for care, maintenance and supervision for less than 24 hours a
day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A private home subject to state licensing in which
1 but less than 7 minor children are received for care and supervision for
periods less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or
adoption. FAMILY DAY CARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an unrelated
minor child for more than 4 weeks during a calendar year.
      GROUP DAY CARE HOME.
         (a)   A private home subject to state licensing in which 6 but not
more than 12 minor children are received for care and supervision for periods
less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption.
         (b)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an
unrelated minor child for more than 4 weeks during a calendar year.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Michigan State Department of Community Health.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure.
   DISTRICT. Each part, or parts, of the unincorporated area of the township
for which specific zoning regulations are prescribed.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically independent of
any other group of rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure,
and containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities. But in no case
shall a travel trailer, automobile chassis, or tent be considered a dwelling.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential structure or group of structures, each
of which contains 3 or more attached single-family dwelling units and shares
common front and/or rear yards. Dwelling units can be located on top of each
other, provided the maximum number of stories in any structure will be 3.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (TOWNHOUSE). A residential structure or
group of structures, each of which contains 3 or more attached single-family
dwelling units with individual rear  and/or front yards designed as an integral
part of each single-family dwelling unit. There are no units located over
another unit(s) and each unit is separated by 1 or more common fire resistant
walls.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A detached residential dwelling unit with
or without an attached garage, other than a mobile home, designed for and
occupied by 1 family only and surrounded by open space or yards on all sides.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY SEMI-DETACHED. A single-family dwelling attached to
1 other single-family dwelling by a common vertical wall and each dwelling
located on a separate lot. The dwelling units are side by side as opposed to 1
on top of the other.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A structure on a single lot containing 2
dwelling units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an
unpierced wall extending from ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and floor
extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common exterior
stairwell, if any, to both dwelling units (See §
153.007 below).
   EASEMENT. A permanent grant of 1 or more of the property rights by the
property owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation, or another
person or entity.
   ELDERLY/SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING. A building or group of buildings containing
dwellings where the occupancy of the dwellings is restricted to persons 62
years of age or older, or couples where either spouse is 62 years of age or
older and is in conformity with applicable state and federal laws. This does
not include a foster care, home for the aged, or nursing home.
   ENCLOSED LOCKED FACILITY.  A closet, room or other enclosed area, which may
be indoors or outdoors that is equipped and secured with locks or other
security devices that permits access only by the primary caregiver.
   ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities or any governmental department or commission of
underground or overhead has, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
communication, supply or disposal systems, including electrical substations and
has regulator stations, poles, wires, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
towers, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and
other similar equipment and accessories in connection with, but not including
buildings.
   EX OFFICIO MEMBER. In reference to the Planning Commission, a member with
full voting rights who serves on the Planning Commission, by virtue of holding
another office for the term of that other office. The EX OFFICIO MEMBER shall
be appointed by the township's chief elected official with concurrence of the
legislative body.
   EXCAVATION AND/OR EXTRACTION.
      (1)   Includes the removal of sand, stone, gravel, minerals, or fill dirt
below the average grade of the surrounding land and/or road grade, whichever
shall be highest.
      (2)   To EXTRACT is the act of removing resources from the ground by
physical effort.
   FAMILY. A single individual doing his or her own cooking, and living upon
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit, or a collective body of persons
doing their own cooking, and living together upon a premises or a separate
housekeeping unit in a domestic bonds distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house, lodging house, club, fraternity, or hotel.
   FARM. Any tract of land used for agriculture, horticultural, truck
gardening, nursery, or other similar purposes for growing crops or plants and/
or for the raising of cattle, swine, horses or other animals, consisting of 4
or more animals.
   FARM BUILDING. An accessory structure that is dedicated to the exclusive use
of farming i.e., the storage of a farm product, hay, straw, or farm machinery,
combines, tractors, and the like. Further, it shall be on a tract of land that
is dedicated as a farm and is actively used as so.
   FEEDLOT. Feedlots shall be construed to be any facility or enclosed area
where farm animals are fed and maintained for more than 4 hours out of 24 hours
at a density greater than 4 heads per acre for cattle and horses, 10 heads per
acre for smaller animals, or more than 30 fowls per acre.
   FLOODPLAIN. Lands which are subject to periodic flooding and have been
defined by the Soil Conservation Service of the United States Department of
Agriculture to have alluvial soil deposits indicating that flooding has taken
place, or as defined by any technically qualified engineer and accepted by the
Township Board as a FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
      (1)   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the
building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating 2 buildings.
      (2)   The FLOOR AREA of a building shall not include the basement floor
area except when more than 1/2 of the basement height is above grade.
      (3)   FLOOR AREA shall include elevator shafts and stairwells at each
floor, floor space used for mechanical equipment (except equipment, open or
enclosed, located on the roof), attic space having headroom of 7 feet, 10
inches or more, interior balconies, and mezzanines.
      (4)   Any space devoted to off-street parking or loading shall not be
included in FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA, USEABLE.
      (1)   For the purposes of computing parking requirements, all ground and
non-ground floor area used for or intended to be used for, the sale of
merchandise or services or for use to serve patrons, clients, or customers.
      (2)   This FLOOR AREA which is used or intended to be used principally
for the storage or processing of merchandise, or for utilities, shall be
excluded from this computation.
      (3)   For the purpose of computing parking for those uses not enclosed
within a building, the area used for the sale of merchandise, display of
merchandise, and/or area used to serve patrons or clients shall be measured to
determine necessary parking spaces.
   FREESTANDING or GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any solar energy system
that is directly installed on or in the ground and is not attached or affixed
to any structure.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a public or private street; the
front lot line.
   GARDEN APARTMENTS. A residential structure, or group of structures, each of
which contain 3 or more attached 1-family dwelling units and share common front
and/or rear yards.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. See AUTOMOBILE REPAIR FACILITIES.
   GAS STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of buildings.
      (2)   The building GRADE shall be the level of the ground adjacent to the
walls of the building if the finished grade is level.
      (3)   If the ground is entirely level, the GRADE shall be determined by
averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the building, measured
at a distance of 4 feet out from the edge of the building (See §
153.007 below).
   GREENWAY. A contiguous or linear open space, including habitats, wildlife
corridors, and trails, that link parks, nature reserves, cultural features, or
historic sites with each other, for recreation and conservation purposes.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Include chemicals as defined by the Michigan
Departments of Public Health, Labor, Natural Resources and other state and
federal regulatory agencies; flammable and combustible liquids as defined by
the Michigan Department of State Police; other hazardous substances as defined
by state or federal agencies, including hazardous waste and polluting
materials.
   HOME CARE CENTER.  A single facility to facilitate the growth, cultivation
and storage of medical marihuana plants located at a primary caregiver’s
residence that is operated by not more than 1 primary caregiver.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. An occupation, profession, activity or other accessory use
of a dwelling that constitutes either entirely or partly, the livelihood of a
person living in the dwelling, with the use being conducted entirely within the
dwelling and carried on by the inhabitants therein and having no external
effects.
   HOTEL. An establishment providing sleeping accommodations to the general
public which may or may not provide additional services, such as restaurants,
meetings rooms, entertainment, and recreational facilities.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Those features and actions associated with a project that are
considered necessary by the body or official granting zoning approval to
protect natural resources or the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of a local unit of government and future users or inhabitants of the proposed
project or project area, including roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks,
screening, and drainage. IMPROVEMENTS do not include the entire project that is
the subject of zoning approval.
   JUNK.
      (1)   Any discarded personal or scrapped property, including any property
which may or may not be salvaged for reuse, resale, reduction or similar
disposition, or which is processed, transported, accumulated, dismantled, or
sorted for any like reason.
      (2)   The term shall include used and salvaged metals, paper, glass,
rubber, rope, machinery, or any motor vehicle which is intended for dismantling
or salvaging.
      (3)   One or more vehicles that are inoperative or unlicensed for 4
months shall be construed as a JUNK yard.
   JUNK YARD.
      (1)   Any open area where waste, used, or second-hand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including, but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires, and bottles.
      (2)   A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards and includes any
area of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping, or abandonment of junk,
but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL. The housing or keeping of more than 3 dogs, cats or other household
pets, which are more than 4 months old, on a lot or in a structure by 1 family
or by a commercial operation for a fee and/or compensation.
   KENNEL, DOG.  Kennel shall include both commercial and private kennels.
   KENNEL, DOG, COMMERCIAL. The housing or keeping on any lot or premises on
which 7 or more dogs, 4 months or older, are kept or housed for any purpose,
either permanently or temporarily, or are kept or housed either for sale,
breeding, boarding, recreational or training.
   KENNEL, DOG, PRIVATE. The housing or keeping on any lot or premises on which
more than 3 but less than 7 dogs, 4 months or older are kept or housed for any
purpose, either permanently or temporarily, or are kept or housed either for
sale, breeding, boarding, recreational or training.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of Montrose.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET.
      (1)   Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to
those vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
      (2)   Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be included as off-
street parking space in the computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide yards and other open
spaces as herein required. See §
153.007 below.
      (2)   A LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an
approved private street, and may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (c)   A combination of contiguous lots of record, or contiguous
portions of lots of record; or
         (d)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percentage of the lot occupied by buildings
including accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein (See §
153.007 below).
      FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, that line separating the
lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, that
line separating the lot from either street.
      REAR LOT LINE.
         (a)   That lot line opposite the front lot line.
         (b)   In the case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE
shall be an imaginary line parallel to the front lot line, not less than 10
feet long lying farthest from the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      SIDE LOT LINE.
         (a)   Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear lot line.
         (b)   A side lot line separating a lot from a street is a SIDE STREET
LOT LINE.
         (c)   A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is an
INTERIOR SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal straight line distance between the side lot lines,
measured between the 2 points where the front setback line intersects the side
lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of and abutting on 2 or more
streets provided that the angle of intersection of the streets is not more than
135 degrees.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
      (1)   Any interior lot having frontage on 2 more or less parallel streets
as distinguished from a corner lot.
      (2)   In the case of a row of DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS, all yards of the lots
adjacent to streets shall be considered frontage, and front yard setbacks shall
be provided as required for them.
      (3)   The minimum lot width requirements of the district where the lot is
located shall be met for each FRONTAGE and not combined.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot not having the required minimum frontage, fronting on or
abutting a public right-of-way, and where access to the public road is by a
narrow, private right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, ZONING.
      (1)   A single tract of land, located within a single block which, at the
time of filing for a building permit, is designated by its owner or developed
as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control.
      (2)   A ZONING LOT shall satisfy this chapter with respect to area, size,
dimensions and frontage as required in the district in which the zoning lot is
located.
      (3)   A ZONING LOT, therefore, may not coincide with a lot of record as
filed with the County Register of Deeds, but may include 1 or more lots or
record.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A dwelling fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at the building site and bearing a label
certifying that it is built in compliance with federal standards.
   MASTER DEED.
      (1)   The condominium document recording the condominium project to which
are attached, as exhibits and incorporated by reference, the approved bylaws
for the condominium project and the condominium plan for the project.
      (2)   The MASTER DEED shall include all the information required by
M.C.L.A. § 559.108.
   MASTER PLAN. The Charter Township of Montrose Community Master Plan adopted
October 18, 1995, by the Montrose Township Planning Commission and endorsed by
the Montrose Township Board of Trustees on October 4, 1995. Any future plans
adopted or amended by the Planning Commission authorized by the act and used to
satisfy the requirements of Section 203(1) of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
2006 PA 110, M.C.L.A. § 125.3203, shall be known as The Charter Township of
Montrose Community Master Plan.
   MICHIGAN MEDICAL MARIHUANA ACT.  The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, P.A. 1
of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.264221 et seq., as amended.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family structure, transportable in 1 or more
sections, which is built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities,
and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems
contained in the structure.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.
      (1)   A park licensed under provisions of the Mobile Home Commission Act,
being Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as
amended.
      (2)   Furthermore, a MOBILE HOME PARK is a parcel or tract of land under
the control of a person or corporation upon which 3 or more mobile homes are
located on a continual, non-recreational basis and which is offered to the
public for that purpose regardless of whether a charge is made therefore,
together with any building, structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or
facility used or intended for use incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
   MODULAR HOME. Factory built housing certified as meeting the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) standards as applicable to
modular housing.
   MOTELS. An establishment providing sleeping accommodations to the general
public which may or may not provide additional services, such as restaurants,
meeting rooms, entertainment, and recreational facilities.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL. The Charter Township of Montrose.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot with dimensions which conflict with the provisions
of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure conflicting with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of land or a structure for purposes which conflict
with the provisions of this chapter.
   OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government and generally furnished
with desks, tables, files, and communication equipment.
   OPEN-AIR BUSINESS USES. Businesses not conducted within a wholly enclosed
building. OPEN-AIR BUSINESSES shall include the following:
      (1)   Bicycle, trailer, new and/or used motor vehicle, boats, modular
homes and home equipment sale or rental;
      (2)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools and similar
uses; and
      (3)   Retail sale of trees, fruit, vegetables, shrubbery , plants, seeds,
topsoil, humus, fertilizer, trellis, lawn furniture, playground equipment, and
other home garden supplies and equipment and similar uses.
   OUTDOOR ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY.  Any enclosed, immovable, locked facility
that is not located inside of the primary residence.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Consists of a space adequate for parking an
automobile, with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, and located on
a lot with the land use to which it is related.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SYSTEM. A solar energy system that produces electricity by
the use of semiconductor devices, called photovoltaic cells that generate
electricity whenever light strikes them.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An integrated and coordinated development of
various residential land uses, with or without retail stores, service stations,
drugstores, personal service offices, and restaurants, but excluding any
manufacturing or wholesale activity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  A 7-member commission as established by the Charter
Township of Montrose Board, retained pursuant to Section 81(2) or (3) of Public
Act 33 of 2008, as amended, subject to the limitations on the application of
the act as provided in Section 81(2) and (3); and referred to alternatively as
the TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION and or COMMISSION.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
   POPULATION.  The POPULATION according to the most recent federal decennial
census, or according to a special census conducted under Section 7 of the Glenn
Steil State Revenue Sharing Act of 1971, 1971 PA 140, M.C.L.A. §141.907,
whichever is the more recent.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER.  A person who is at least 21 years old and who has agreed
to assist with a qualifying patient’s medical use of marihuana and who has been
issued and possesses a valid Medical Marihuana Registry Identification Card by
the Michigan State Department of Community Health, which is not expired and or
has not been revoked.
   PRIMARY RESIDENCE.  The one place where a person has his or her true, fixed
and permanent home to which, whenever absent, he or she intends to return and
that shall continue as a principal residence until another principal residence
is established.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. Any building for any primary land use or use subject to
conditional review, as defined in each zoning classification, not including
accessory structures.
   PRIVATE NONCOMMERCIAL PARK AND RECREATION AREA/FACILITY. A park or
recreation facility operated by a nonprofit organization and open only to
bonafide members and guests of nonprofit organizations.
   PRIVATE ROAD.
      (1)   A road owned and maintained by the owners of the property it serves
and provides access to 3 or more dwellings or 2 or more non-residential
principal buildings.
      (2)   Private roads include roads within condominium projects, roads
serving 2-family dwelling units and roads within office or industrial
complexes.
      (3)   The definition of PRIVATE ROAD does not include drives serving
multiple-family buildings with 3 or more attached dwelling units, parking lot
aisles or drives connecting parking lots to internal roads.
   PRIVATE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any solar energy system that is accessory to a
principal use that is designed and built to serve the principal use of the
property. These systems shall not be utilized for any commercial sale of
energy, except for the sale of surplus electrical energy back to the electrical
grid.
   PUBLIC PARK AND RECREATION AREA/FACILITY. A park and recreation facility
open to the general public.
   PUBLIC ROAD. A way or means of approval which provides access and which is
constructed to the Genesee County Road Commission Standards and is dedicated
for general public use and maintained by the Genesee County Road Commission.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board, duly authorized under state or municipal regulation to furnish, and
furnishing, transportation, water, gas, electricity, telephone, steam,
telegraph, or sewage disposal and other services to the public.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT.  A person who has been diagnosed by a physician as
having a debilitating medical condition, and who has been issued and possesses
a valid medical marihuana registry identification card by the Michigan State
Department of Community Health, which is not expired and or has not been
revoked.
   RESTAURANT. Includes the following.
      CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT. An establishment that by design of the physical
facilities, service, or packaging sells prepared ready-to-eat foods intended
primarily to be consumed off the premises.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A drive-in restaurant is any establishment whose
principal business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages to the
customer in a ready-to-consume state, and whose design, method of operation, or
any portion of whose business includes 1 or both of the following
characteristics:
         (a)   Foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are served directly to the
customer in a motor vehicle either by a carhop or by other means which
eliminate the need for the customer to exit the motor vehicle, including by
means of a drive-through or drive-up window; and/or
         (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages within a
motor vehicle parked upon the premises, or at other facilities on the premises
outside the restaurant building, is allowed, encouraged, and permitted.
      FAST-FOOD RESTAURANT. Any establishment whose principal business is the
sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building, by means
of a drive-up or drive-through window or by carry-out with consumption off the
premises, and whose design or principal method of operation includes both of
the following characteristics:
         (a)   Foods, frozen desserts, or beverages are usually served in
edible containers or in paper, plastic, or other disposal containers either
directly to the customer or by means of a drive-through or drive-up window; and
         (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages within a
motor vehicle parked upon the premises, or at other facilities on the premises
outside the restaurant building, is posted as being prohibited and the
prohibition is strictly enforced by the restaurateur.
      STANDARD RESTAURANT. Any establishment whose principal business is the
sale of food, frozen desserts, or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design or principal method of operation includes 1 or
both of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are served
their foods, frozen desserts, or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same
table or counter at which the items are consumed; and/or
         (b)   A cafeteria-type operation where foods, frozen desserts, or
beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant building.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a
road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil, or gas pipeline,
water line, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and other similar uses.
   ROADSIDE STANDS. Retail outlets with all related structures primarily for
the sale of farm produce grown on the farm upon which the stand is located.
   ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar power system in which solar panels
are mounted on top of the structure of a roof either as a flush-mounted system
or as modules fixed to frames which can be tilted towards the south at an
optimal angle.
   RUMMAGE SALE (GARAGE). A sale or offering of more than 3 items of new or
used merchandise, clothing, household goods, rummage, or other personal
property on premises not zoned for sale. Any sale which meets the requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed to be a RUMMAGE SALE regardless of the name or
designation placed upon a sale by the person or persons conducting same.
   SANITARY LANDFILLS. Any parcel of land used for the dumping of refuse for
the purposes of disposing of the refuse licensed by the State of Michigan, and
operated in accordance with the Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq., as amended, and M.C.L.A. §§ 299.501 through 299.551, as
amended.
   SETBACK. Distance from the right-of-way line of streets to the building line
for the purpose of defining limits within which no building or structure, shall
be erected or permanently maintained.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group or groups of 3 or more commercial establishments
developed in accordance to an overall plan and design and built as an
interrelated project.
   SIGN.
      (1)   The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs, or other
trademarks by which anything is made known (other than billboards, defined
separately herein) that are used to show an individual, firm, profession, or
business, and are visible to the general public.
      (2)   Accessory SIGNS pertain to uses or activities conducted on the
premises where located.
   SIGN AREA.
      (1)   The area of a sign consisting of the entire surface of any regular
geometric form, or combinations of regular geometric forms, comprising all of
the display area of the sign and including all of the elements of the matter
displayed.
      (2)   Frames and structural members not bearing advertising matter shall
not be included in computation of the SIGN AREA.
   SIGN, ON-SITE. A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on
which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities on
the premises.
   SIGN, OFF-SITE. A sign other than an on-site sign.
   SITE PLAN. A SITE PLAN includes the documents and drawings required by the
Zoning Ordinance to insure that a proposed land use or activity is in
compliance with local ordinances and state and federal statutes.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). Any equipment necessary to the process by which
solar radiation is collected, converted into another form of energy, stored,
protected from unnecessary dissipation and distributed. SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
consist primarily of solar thermal, photovoltaic and concentrated solar but may
include other various experimental solar technologies.
   SOLAR SHINGLES. A roofing product made by combining thin film solar
technology with a durable backing to provide a structural roof shingle
comparable to traditional roofing shingles.
   SOLID WASTE. Unwanted or discarded material including waste material with
insufficient liquid content to be free flowing.
   SPECIAL LAND USE.
      (1)   The term applied to a used which may be permitted by the
application for and issuance of a special land use permit by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   A SPECIAL LAND USE permit may be issued only for those uses
specifically cited in this chapter.
   STORY.
      (1)   That part of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor or roof, next above.
      (2)   When the distance from the average established grade to the ceiling
of a portion of a structure partly below the grade is greater than the distance
from the average established grade to the floor, that portion shall constitute
a STORY.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards, solar energy systems, and poster panels.
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of sale or lease of more
than 1 year, or of building development, where the act of division creates 5 or
more parcels of land each of which is 10 acres or less in area; or 5 or more
parcels of land each of which is 10 acres or less in area are created by
successive divisions within a period of 10 years as prescribed by the
Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, P.A., as amended.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either:
      (1)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      (2)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   TEMPORARY USE. A use established for a limited duration with the intent to
discontinue the use upon the expiration of the time period.
   TOWNHOUSE. A residential structure or group of structures, each of which
contains 3 or more attached 1-family dwelling units with individual rear yards
and/or front yards designed as an integral part of each 1-family dwelling unit.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having
a body width not exceeding 8 feet and a length not to exceed 40 feet.
   VARIANCE. A modification to the literal provisions of this chapter which is
granted when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship or practical
difficulty, depending on the variance requested, owing to circumstances unique
to the individual property on which the variance is granted. Hardships based
solely on economic considerations are not grounds for a variance.
   WETLAND. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support, and, that under normal circumstances does
support, wetland vegetation or aquatic life and is commonly referred to as a
bog, swamp, or marsh and which is any of the following:
      (1)   Contiguous to the Great Lakes or Lake St. Clair, an inland lake or
pond, or a river or stream;
      (2)   Not contiguous to the Great Lakes, and inland lake or pond, or a
river or stream; and more than 5 acres in size; except this division shall not
be of effect, except for the purpose of inventorying, in counties of less than
100,000 population until the Michigan Department of Natural Resources certifies
to the Commission of Natural Resources it has substantially completed its
inventory of wetlands in that county; or
      (3)   Not contiguous to the Great Lakes, an inland lake or pond, or a
river or stream; and 5 acres or less in size if the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources determines that protection of the area is essential to the
preservation of the natural resources of the state from pollution, impairment,
or destruction and the Department has so notified the owner; except this
division may be utilized regardless of wetland size in a county in which
division (2) above is of no effect; except for the purpose of inventorying, at
the time.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building or building group lying
between the front, rear, or side wall of a building and the nearest lot line,
unoccupied except for projections and the specific minor uses or structures
allowed in the open space under the provisions of this chapter. Because
buildings may be irregularly shaped or set on an angle to the lot, widths of
YARDS usually are measured from the nearest lot line to the closet point of the
building (See §
153.007 below).
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A side yard which faces a public street.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending the full width of the lot on which a building
is located and situated between the front lot line and a line parallel thereto
and passing through the nearest point of the building.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. A side yard located immediately adjacent to another
zoning lot or to an alley separating the side yard from another zoning lot.
   YARD, REAR.
      (1)   A yard extending the full width of the lot on which a building is
located and situated between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto and
passing through the nearest point of the building. Accessory buildings are
permitted in REAR YARDS in many ordinances.
      (2)   There is now some tendency to make the minimum dimension of the
required REAR YARD the same as that for the minimum side yard to exclude
accessory buildings, insert limitations on lot coverage and enlarge the
buildable area, allowing more flexibility in the shape and orientation of the
principle structure.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard on the same lot as a building situated between the side
lot line and a line parallel thereto and passing through the nearest point of a
building, and extending from the front yard to the rear.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in a manner so that 1 or
more of the building’s sides rests directly on a lot line.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. A 7-member board, with 2 alternates, as provided
under provisions of the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 12 of 2008, as amended,
with powers and duties as defined herein, and referred to alternatively as the
BOARD OF APPEALS.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A zoning district is a portion of the township within
which, on a uniform basis, certain uses of land and buildings are permitted and
within which contain yard, open spaces, lot area, and other requirements as
established by this chapter.
   ZONING JURISDICTION. The area encompassed by the legal boundaries of the
Charter Township of Montrose outside the limits of incorporated City of
Montrose.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 2.02; Am. Ord. 116, passed 1-18-1999; Am. Ord.
145, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006; Am. Ord. 152, passed 1-
16-2007; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007; Am. Ord. 158, passed 7-17-2007; Am.
Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord. 13-200, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 13-
206, passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 13-207, passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 18-231,
passed 12-18-2018; Am. Ord. 21-006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021)
§ 153.007 ILLUSTRATIONS FOR CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Basement: Figure 1.
Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1068.gif]
 
   (B)   Building envelope: Figure 2.
Figure 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1070.gif]
 
   (C)   Building height: Figure 3 and Figure 4.
Figure 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1074.gif]
 
Figure 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1076.gif]
 
   (D)   Cellar: Figure 3.
   (E)   Grade: Figure 5.
Figure 5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1078.gif]
 
   (F)   Lot: Figure 6.
Figure 6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1080.gif]
 
   (G)   Lot, corner: Figure 7.
   (H)   Lot depth: Figure 7.
Figure 7
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1082.gif]
 
   (I)   Lot, double frontage: Figure 8.
Figure 8
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1084.gif]
 
   (J)   Lot, flag: Figure 13.
Figure 13
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1100.jpg]
 
   (K)   Lot lines: Figure 7 and Figure 8.
   (L)   Lot width: Figure 7 and Figure 8.
   (M)   Lot line, front: Figure 9.
   (N)   Lot line, rear: Figure 9.
   (O)   Lot line, side: Figure 9.
Figure 9
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1088.gif]
 
   (P)   Lot line, zero: Figure 10.
Figure 10
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1092.gif]
 
   (Q)   Yard: Figure 11.
Figure 11
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1094.gif]
 
   (R)   Yard, front: Figure 12.
   (S)   Yard, rear: Figure 12.
   (Y)   Yard, side: Figure 12.
Figure 12
ILLUSTRATION OF FRONT, SIDE & REAR YARD
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1096.gif]
 
   (Z)   Dwelling, two-family (duplex): Figure 13.
Figure 13
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6c2f307cbd732c16eb0d8fbbffde155d34a528f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1046.jpg]
 
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 2.03; Am. Ord. 152, passed 1-16-2007)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
§ 153.020 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For this purpose of this chapter, the Charter Township of Montrose is hereby
divided into the following districts.
 
Residential Districts      Nonresidential Districts
AG Agricultural            R/C Recreation/Conservation
RF Residential Farm        O/S Office/Service
RS Residential Suburban    C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
RM Multiple-Family         C-2 General Commercial
MHP Mobile Home            I-1 Light Industrial
MHP Manufactured Home Park I-2 Heavy Industrial
 
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 3.01)
§ 153.021 ZONING MAP AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the zoning map which accompanies this chapter, and which map, with all
notations, references, and other information provided, shall be as much a part
of this chapter as if fully described in the text.
   (B)   The zoning map shall be kept on display in the Township Hall and
descriptions accompanying enacted amendments to the zoning map shall be
displayed adjacent to the map until a time as the map is corrected.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 3.02)
§ 153.022 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES INTERPRETED.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the zoning districts map, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of the
streets, highways, or alleys, shall be construed to follow the centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall
be construed as following corporate limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be the midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   (1)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (D) above shall be so construed.
      (2)   Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (F)   Where physical or natural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Board of Appeals shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   (G)   Insofar as some or all of the various districts may be indicated on
the zoning map by patterns which, for the sake of map clarity, do not cover
public rights-of-way it is intended that the district boundaries do extend to
the center of any public right-of-way.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 3.03)
§ 153.023 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way, within the Charter Township
of Montrose shall be vacated, the street, alley, or other public way or portion
thereof, shall automatically be classified in the same zoning district as the
property to which it attaches.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 3.04)
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (AG)
§ 153.035 INTENT.
   (A)   This district is established to regulate those areas of the township
whose best use is for agricultural production and related activities.
   (B)   The regulations of this district are designed to conserve, stabilize,
and enhance farming and related resource utilization activities, to minimize
conflicting uses of parcels, lots and structures detrimental to or incompatible
with these activities.
   (C)   The district, in seeking to conserve areas for agricultural uses, is
designed to prevent urban sprawl and the fragmentation of agricultural
resources through insensitive subdivision design.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 4.01)
§ 153.036 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used and no land
may be used except for 1 or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Farming, including the raising or growing of:
      (1)   Forages and sod crops;
      (2)   Grains and feed crops;
      (3)   Dairy and dairy products;
      (4)   Livestock, including breeding and grazing;
      (5)   Fruits;
      (6)   Vegetables;
      (7)   Plants, trees, shrubs, and nursery stock; and
      (8)   Similar bona fide agricultural enterprises or use of land and
structure.
   (B)   Truck gardening, involving the growing of fruits and vegetables that
are intended to be distributed and sold to consumers as fresh produce;
   (C)   Sale and service of machinery used in agricultural production;
   (D)   Facilities for the centralized bulk collection, storage, and
distribution of agriculture products to wholesale and retail markets;
   (E)   Facilities for the storage and sale of seed, fertilizer, and other
products essential to agricultural production;
   (F)   Facilities for the research and testing of agricultural products and
techniques;
   (G)   Single-family residential dwellings;
   (H)   Family day care homes;
   (I)   Township buildings and uses;
   (J)   Cemeteries;
   (K)   Public utility buildings and uses; and/or
   (L)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 4.02)
§ 153.037 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Adult foster care facilities;
   (B)   Agribusiness uses such as farmers markets, fruit or vegetable stands,
or roadside stands for the sale of agriculture goods produced on site;
   (C)   Animal hospitals and animal shelters, but not including animal
mortuaries or crematoriums;
   (D)   Auction sales;
   (E)   Bed and breakfast operations;
   (F)   Campgrounds and travel trailer parks;
   (G)   Churches, synagogues, and other places of worship;
   (H)   Commercial solar energy systems;
   (I)   Driving ranges and golf courses;
   (J)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (K)   Group day care homes;
   (L)   Home occupations;
   (M)   Kennels, dog; commercial and/or private;
   (N)   Private and public riding stables;
   (O)   Retail establishments designed to cater to the touring public and
including uses such as cider mills, antique dealers, woodworking and quilt
shops, and collectibles and craft stores;
   (P)   Shooting ranges, gun clubs and archery ranges; and
   (Q)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 4.03; Am. Ord. 106, passed 11-10-1997; Am. Ord.
152, passed 1-16-2007; Am. Ord. 13-200, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 18-231,
passed 12-18-2018)
§ 153.038 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   These standards are only applicable if a site plan is required:
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201;
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243;
   (C)   Parking and loading: unloading: §§
153.275 through
153.281;
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302; and
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 4.04)
RESIDENTIAL FARM DISTRICT (RF)
§ 153.050 INTENT.
   (A)   The Residential Farm District is intended to provide land for orderly
residential growth, residential activities of a semi-rural character, and
continued agricultural activities in areas that are presently without public
water and sanitary sewer facilities and are likely to remain without those
services for an extended period of time.
   (B)   It is further intended that the district protect and stabilize the
essential characteristics of these areas in order to promote and encourage
suitable environments for low density family life and to maintain and to
preserve the rural character of the township.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 5.01)
§ 153.051 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used, and no land
shall be used except for 1 or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   One-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Publicly owned and operated parks, parkways, and recreational
facilities;
   (C)   Family day care homes;
   (D)   Adult foster care family homes and adult foster care small group homes
consisting of 6 or less residents; and/or
   (E)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 5.02)
§ 153.052 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Adult foster care small group homes for 7 to 12 persons;
   (B)   Agribusiness uses such as farmers markets, fruit or vegetable stands,
or roadside stands for the sale of agriculture goods produced on site;
   (C)   Animal hospitals and animal shelters;
   (D)   Bed and breakfast operations;
   (E)   Cemeteries;
   (F)   Churches, synagogues, and other places of worship;
   (G)   Cluster residential development;
   (H)   Colleges, universities, and institutions of higher learning;
   (I)   Commercial solar energy systems;
   (J)   Driving ranges and golf courses;
   (K)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
   (L)   Group day care homes;
   (M)   Home occupations;
   (N)   Kennels, dog; commercial and/or private;
   (O)   Private (noncommercial) recreation areas, institutional or community
recreation facilities;
   (P)   Public and private schools;
   (Q)   Private and public riding stables, subject to minimum lot size of 20
acres;
   (R)   Single-family semi-detached dwellings;
   (S)   Two-family dwellings (duplex); and
   (T)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 5.03; Am. Ord. 107, passed 11-10-1997; Am. Ord.
152, passed 1-16-2007; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord. 13-200, passed
3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 18-231, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 153.053 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   These standards are only applicable if a site plan is required:
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201;
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243;
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281;
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302; and
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 5.04)
RESIDENTIAL SUBURBAN DISTRICT (RS)
§ 153.065 INTENT.
   (A)   The Residential Suburban District is designed to provide an
environment for primarily single-family residential development at suburban or
urban densities, if the necessary public utilities are available.
   (B)   It is the intent of this district to encourage a suitable environment
for family life by permitting facilities and institutions that are compatible
with neighborhood activities.
   (C)   Conversely, the district prohibits any use whose physical scale and
associated traffic volumes would be detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of neighborhood residents.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 6.01)
§ 153.066 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used, and no land
shall be used except for 1 or more of the following:
   (A)   One-family residential dwellings;
   (B)   Adult foster car family homes and adult foster care group homes
consisting of 6 or less residents;
   (C)   Family day care homes;
   (D)   Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, parkways, and
recreational facilities; and/or
   (E)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 6.02)
§ 153.067 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Adult foster care small group homes for 7 to 12 residents;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast operations;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Churches, synagogues, and other places of worship;
   (E)   Day care centers, child care centers, and nursery schools;
   (F)   Two-Family Dwellings (Duplex);
   (G)   Group day care homes;
   (H)   Home occupations;
   (I)   Public and private schools;
   (J)   Single-Family Semi-Detached Dwellings; and
   (J)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 6.03; Am. Ord. 152, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 153.068 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   These standards are only applicable if a site plan is required:
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201;
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243;
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281;
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302; and
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 6.04)
RECREATION/CONSERVATION DISTRICT (R/C)
§ 153.080 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this district is to prescribe a zoning category for
those areas where, because of natural geographic factors and existing land
uses, it is considered feasible and desirable to conserve open spaces, water
supply sources, woodland areas, wildlife, and other natural resources.
   (B)   This district may include extensive steeply sloped areas, stream
valleys, water supply sources, and wooded areas adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 7.01)
§ 153.081 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used and no land
may be used except for 1 or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Publicly owned and operated parks and parkways recreational
facilities;
   (B)   Forest, woodland, natural, wetland, and wildlife preserves and areas;
   (C)   Campgrounds, riding academies, golf courses, riding trails, summer or
winter resort areas, hunting, fishing or country clubs, game preserves and
similar uses for the purpose of preserving and enjoying the natural resources
of the property, but not including marinas, boat rentals, docks, or piers; and/
or
   (D)   Water supply works, flood control or watershed protection works, and
fish and game hatcheries.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 7.02)
§ 153.082 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219:
   (A)   Shooting ranges;
   (B)   Gun clubs; and
   (C)   Archery ranges.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 7.03)
§ 153.083 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   These standards are only applicable if a site plan is required:
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201;
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243;
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281;
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302; and
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 7.04)
MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT (MHP)
§ 153.095 INTENT.
   It is the purpose of the Mobile Home Park District to provide for the
development of mobile home parks in appropriate locations and in accordance
with the regulations established by the Michigan Mobile Home Commission (MMHC).
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 8.01)
§ 153.096 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, altered, or used and no
land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following:
   (A)   Mobile home park developments subject to all minimum requirements and
standards as established in the Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of
1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350 as amended, and all rules
promulgated pursuant to Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301
through 125.2350, as may be amended;
   (B)   Clubhouse, swimming pool, and recreation facilities for the use of
park residents;
   (C)   Family day care homes;
   (D)   Accessory uses and structures, such as managers’ offices, laundry
facilities, tool or storage sheds, and other services for the residents of the
park;
   (E)   The park may display mobile homes and accessories for sale, provided
the accessories are contained within a mobile home or an approved permanent
structure. These sales are to permit the development of the park and are not
intended to be a retail operation. The sales shall cease with the total
development of the park;
   (F)   Only 1 mobile home, either occupied or for sale shall be allowed on
each individual lot, within the park; and/or
   (G)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 8.02)
§ 153.097 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219:
   (A)   Group day care homes;
   (B)   Day care centers;
   (C)   Home occupations; and
   (D)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 8.03)
§ 153.098 GENERAL SITE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Lot size.
      (1)   The mobile home park shall be developed with sites averaging 5,000
square feet per mobile home unit.
      (2)   The 5,000 square feet for any 1 site may be reduced by 20%,
provided that the individual site shall be equal to at least 4,400 square feet.
      (3)   For each square foot of land gained through the reduction of a site
below 5,000 square feet, at least an equal amount of land shall be dedicated as
open space, but in no case shall the open and distance requirements be less
than that required under R 125.1946, and R 125.1941 and R 125.1944, Rules R
125.1941 and R 125.944, of the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (B)   Maximum heights. The maximum height of service buildings and permitted
office structures shall be 2 stories or 25 feet.
   (C)   Access to public road. A mobile home park shall have direct access to
a major public road by access roads, which shall be hard-surfaced.
   (D)   Paving. All internal roads and parking facilities shall be in
compliance with AASHTO specifications referenced in Rule 922 of the Mobile Home
Commission rules.
   (E)   Sidewalks. Concrete walks, not less than 3 feet wide and 4 inches
thick, shall be installed in the mobile home park from the public entrance to
all mobile home lots and to all required service facilities such as, but not
limited to, central laundry, central parking and central recreation and park
areas.
   (F)   Plumbing, electrical, and television.
      (1)   All electrical and telephone wiring shall be underground.
      (2)   The installation of all plumbing and electrical services to mobile
home sites shall be in compliance with all applicable standards of the Mobile
Home Commission.
   (G)   Floor space.
      (1)   There shall be not less than 720 square feet of floor space within
each mobile home.
      (2)   The floor area of any porch, sun deck or other structure above the
roof or outside the floor or walls of the mobile home shall not be counted as
part of the 720-square foot minimum.
   (H)   Screening and greenbelt. When the mobile home park adjoins a site
zoned or a site improved and used for single-family residential use, there
shall be installed on the park site along the boundary line of the residential
site screening or a greenbelt as required in §§
153.315 through
153.322 below.
   (I)   Storage and skirting.
      (1)   There shall be no storage of any kind under a mobile home.
      (2)   Each like home shall be skirted within 90 days after being placed
on the lot.
   (J)   Fences.
      (1)   All fences (other than the perimeter screening requirements) shall
be uniform in height and shall be constructed and installed in a manner so as
not to interfere with free access by firefighters to all sides of a mobile
home, and shall not exceed 36 inches in height.
      (2)   Barbed wire shall not be used in any like fence.
      (3)   Two access gates shall be provided to all fenced areas pursuant to
the requirements of the Mobile Home Commission.
   (K)   Storage.
      (1)   No personal property shall be stored outside or under any mobile
home.
      (2)   Storage sheds may be used to store property, but need not be
supplied by the owner of the mobile home development.
      (3)   Any storage sheds placed on individual mobile home sites shall be
maintained in good condition and kept painted.
      (4)   Storage sheds shall be placed in side or rear yard areas.
   (L)   Site plan.
      (1)   In accordance with the Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of
1987 §§ 11, 12, and 13, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as
amended, a person desiring to develop a mobile home park shall submit a
preliminary plan to the Township Planning Commission for review and approval.
      (2)   The preliminary plan shall include the location, general design and
a general description of the project.
      (3)   The preliminary plan does not need to include detailed construction
plans.
   (M)   Parking.
      (1)   A minimum of 2 parking spaces shall be provided for each mobile
home site.
      (2)   A minimum of 1 parking space for every 3 mobile home sites shall be
provided for visitor parking.
      (3)   Parking shall be located convenient to the area served.
      (4)   If boats, boat trailers and utility trailers are permitted to be
parked in the mobile home park, adequate parking spaces shall be provided in a
central or collective parking area.
   (N)   Smoke alarms. Smoke alarms and fire extinguishers shall be installed
in each mobile home unit pursuant to the requirements of Rule 702(a) of the
Mobile Home Commission.
   (O)   Water supply and sanitary system. Each mobile home occupied as a
dwelling unit on a lot shall be connected with a water supply and sewage
disposal system approved by the Michigan Department of Health.
   (P)   Fuel tanks. Individual fuel oil, liquid petroleum and other fuel tanks
shall not be permitted. This does not preclude the use of central fuel systems.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 8.04)
§ 153.099 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   These standards are only applicable if a site plan is required:
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201;
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243;
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281;
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302; and
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 8.05)
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RM)
§ 153.110 INTENT.
   (A)   The RM Multiple-Family Residential District is designed to permit a
more intensive residential use of land with various types of attached single-
family houses, townhouses and garden apartments.
   (B)   These areas should be located near major thoroughfares for good
accessibility and between single-family residential areas and other non-
residential uses.
   (C)   Various sizes of residential accommodations, for ownership or rental,
would thereby be provided to meet the needs of the different age and family
groups in the community.
   (D)   It is the intent of the township to require all development within
this district to be served by a central sanitary sewage collection and disposal
system and a public potable water system.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 9.01)
§ 153.111 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used, and no land
shall be used except for 1 or more of the following and subject to a review of
the site plan as provided for in §§
153.230 through
153.243:
   (A)   Multiple-family dwellings, including townhouses (1-family attached
dwellings), apartment buildings and row or terraced dwellings;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings (duplex);
   (C)   Single-Family semi-detached dwellings; and/or
   (C)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 9.02; Am. Ord. 152, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 153.112 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Churches, synagogues, and other places of worship;
   (B)   Day care centers;
   (C)   Housing for the elderly or senior citizens;
   (D)   Public, parochial and private elementary, intermediate and/or
secondary schools offering courses in general education, not operated for
profit; and
   (E)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 9.03)
§ 153.113 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   These standards are only applicable if a site plan is required:
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201;
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243;
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281;
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302; and
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 9.04)
OFFICE SERVICE DISTRICT (O-S)
§ 153.125 INTENT.
   (A)   The Office Service District is intended to accommodate low-intensity,
office-type professional and administrative service uses.
   (B)   These districts have the following characteristics: allowable
activities take place in attractive buildings in landscaped settings; they
generally operate during normal daytime business hours; they produce a minimum
amount of traffic; and their use characteristics make them compatible with
adjacent residential uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 10.01)
§ 153.126 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used and no land
may be used except for 1 or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Office-type business related to executive, administrative, or
professional occupations including, but not limited to, offices of a lawyer,
accountant, insurance/real estate agent, architect, engineer, and similar
occupation;
   (B)   Clinics, except veterinary clinics or veterinary hospitals having
boarding facilities or outdoor runs;
   (C)   Medical, dental, and optical laboratories that provide testing
services or provide medical or dental devices such as artificial limbs, teeth,
eye glasses and the like;
   (D)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and similar uses;
   (E)   Barber shops, beauty shops, and health salons;
   (F)   Private clubs, fraternal organization, or lodge halls;
   (G)   Pharmacy or apothecary shop;
   (H)   Business service establishments such as typing services, photocopying
services; quick-printing establishments, office supply stores, and similar
establishments;
   (I)   Hospitals, convalescent homes and nursing homes; and/or
   (J)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 10.02)
§ 153.127 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Colleges, universities, and other institutions of higher learning;
   (B)   Day care centers;
   (C)   Fast food, carry-out, drive-in, and drive-through restaurants;
   (D)   Mortuary establishments or funeral homes;
   (E)   Office supply stores;
   (F)   Public, institutional, or semi-public facilities; and
   (G)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 10.03)
§ 153.128 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201.
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243.
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281.
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302.
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 10.04)
NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1)
§ 153.140 INTENT.
   (A)   The Neighborhood Commercial District is designed to meet the day-to-
day convenience shopping and service needs of persons residing in nearby
residential areas.
   (B)   The district is also intended to encourage the planned clustering of
commercial activities necessary to serve a limited population density and
geographic area.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 11.01)
§ 153.141 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, altered, or used and no land
shall be used except for 1 or more of the following:
   (A)   Retail establishments selling goods or merchandise, such as:
      (1)   Drugs;
      (2)   Apparel;
      (3)   Jewelry;
      (4)   Books;
      (5)   Food;
      (6)   Household appliances or furniture; and
      (7)   Video.
   (B)   Personal service establishments, such as:
      (1)   Barber or beauty shops;
      (2)   Tailors;
      (3)   Locksmiths;
      (4)   Photo studios;
      (5)   Laundry or dry cleaning facilities; and
      (6)   Household appliance repair shops.
   (C)   Financial institutions, such as (except drive-through window):
      (1)   Banks;
      (2)   Savings and loans; and
      (3)   Credit unions.
   (D)   Coin-operated laundromats and self-service dry cleaning centers;
   (E)   Private or public parks, museums and libraries;
   (F)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
   (G)   Eating and drinking places, where services are provided to patrons
while seated in a building, excluding drive-in, fast-food or carry out
establishments;
   (H)   Convenience stores without gasoline service;
   (I)   Any use permitted as a permitted use in an O-S Zoning District; and/or
   (J)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 11.02; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 153.142 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Athletic and sport clubs;
   (B)   Automobile service station (convenience store with gasoline sales);
   (C)   Churches and temples;
   (D)   Day care centers;
   (E)   Drive-ins and drive-throughs, fast-food and carry-out restaurants;
   (F)   Drive-through financial institutions;
   (G)   Hotels and motels;
   (H)   Private service or social clubs;
   (I)   Public, private, and parochial schools;
   (J)   Public utility buildings and uses;
   (K)   Self-storage units;
   (L)   Any special land use permitted as a special land use permitted as
special land use in an O-S Zoning District; and
   (M)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 11.03; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 153.143 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201.
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243.
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281.
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302.
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 11.04)
GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2)
§ 153.155 INTENT.
   (A)   The General Commercial District is intended to permit a wider range of
business and entertainment activities than permitted in the Neighborhood
Commercial District.
   (B)   The permitted uses would not only serve nearby residential areas, but
also customers farther away for types of businesses and services that attract a
larger clientele.
   (C)   These uses would generate larger volumes of vehicular traffic, would
need more off-street parking and loading, and would require more planning to
integrate a like district with adjacent residential areas.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 12.01)
§ 153.156 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, altered, or used and no
land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following:
   (A)   (1)   Retail food establishments including convenience stores, whose
principal activity is within a wholly enclosed building which supply:
groceries, fresh produce, meats, dairy products, baked goods, confections or
similar commodities for consumption off the premises.
      (2)   Food stuffs may be prepared on the premises as an accessory use if
sold at retail prices on premise;
   (B)   Retail businesses conducted entirely within an enclosed building such
as: drug stores, liquor, dry goods, clothing, furniture, hardware, music, book
stores, and gift shops;
   (C)   Personal service establishments such as but not limited to: small
electronics repair shops, shoe repair, tailors, hair styling salons,
photographers’ studios, film processing outlets, copy centers, interior
decorators, postal centers, self-service laundry, and dry cleaners;
   (D)   Newspaper offices and publishing, and commercial printers;
   (E)   Churches;
   (F)   Restaurants and other establishments serving food and/or beverages
excluding drive-throughs and drive-ins;
   (G)   Private clubs, lodge halls, theaters, cinemas, and similar assembly
buildings when completely enclosed;
   (H)   Banks, savings and loans, and credit unions (not including drive-
through facilities);
   (I)   Funeral homes;
   (J)   Indoor recreational establishments;
   (K)   Banks, savings and loans, credit unions and other facilities, with
drive-through facilities;
   (L)   Medical clinics;
   (M)   Professional offices such as medical and dental, chiropractors,
osteopaths, and similar or allied professions;
   (N)   Professional services such as insurance, real estate, legal,
financial, and similar or allied professions;
   (O)   Hotels and motels;
   (P)   Twenty-four-hour banking centers/ready tellers which are separate from
a financial institution;
   (Q)   Any use permitted as a permitted use in a C-1 Zoning District; and/or
   (R)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 12.02; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 153.157 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses shall be considered special land uses within the district
and may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable
general and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Adult entertainment uses;
   (B)   Animal shelters;
   (C)   Automobile repair facility (garage, repair);
   (D)   Automobile service stations;
   (E)   Buildings and lumber supply, provided that the use is primarily for
the storage and sale of retail goods, and excludes manufacturing, processing,
planning or milling operations, provided that all outdoor storage areas are
screened;
   (F)   Car wash; automatic or self-service;
   (G)   Child care centers;
   (H)   Commercial outdoor storage;
   (I)   Commercial solar energy systems;
   (J)   Convenience stores with gasoline service;
   (K)   Kennels, dog; commercial and/or private;
   (L)   New and or used automobile sales and showroom;
   (M)   Nurseries, and garden centers, provided that all outdoor storage areas
are screened;
   (N)   Open front restaurant windows, when accessory to a principal permitted
restaurant and designed for walk-up patrons only;
   (O)   Outdoor recreational establishments;
   (P)   Open-air business uses; businesses not conducted within a wholly
enclosed building;
   (Q)   Public, institutional, or semi-public facilities;
   (R)   Restaurants and other establishments serving food and/or beverages, on
premises with drive-through and/or drive-in facilities;
   (S)   Self-storage units;
   (T)   Veterinary clinics or veterinary hospitals with or without kennel
facilities;
   (U)   Any special land use permitted as a special land use in a C-1 Zoning
District; and
   (V)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to any
of the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 12.03; Am. Ord. 126, passed 12-20-1999; Am. Ord.
148, passed 5-16-2006; Am. Ord. 13-200, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 18-231,
passed 12-18-2018)
§ 153.158 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201.
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243.
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281.
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302.
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 12.04)
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1)
§ 153.170 INTENT.
   The Industrial District is designed so as to primarily accommodate wholesale
activities, warehouses, major repair operations, manufacturing and other
industrial activities whose external, physical effects are so that it should be
restricted to the area of the district and in no manner affect in a detrimental
way any of the surrounding districts.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 13.01)
§ 153.171 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, altered, or used and no
land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following:
   (A)   Any of the following uses when conducted whole within a completely
enclosed building screened on all sides with a 6-foot fence. The fence shall be
obscuring on the sides which abut districts zoned for residential use:
      (1)   Warehousing and wholesale establishments;
      (2)   Automobile, tractor and trucking facilities, including storage and
repair;
      (3)   The manufacturer and compounding processing, packaging or treatment
of products such as (but not limited to): bakery goods, candy, food products,
cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries, hardware and cutlery; tool, die gauge
and machine shops; and dimension and pattern shops;
      (4)   The manufacture and compounding, assembling or treatment of
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials such as (but not
limited to): woods, leather, paper, plastics, cork, cloth, felt, fiber, fur,
hair, yarns, feathers, textiles, tobacco, glass, bone, horn, shell, precious or
semi-precious metals or stones and sheet metal or wire;
      (5)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized lay and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
      (6)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and metal or
rubber stamps, or other molded rubber products;
      (7)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, radios, and phonographs;
      (8)   Laboratories: experimental, film, or testing;
      (9)   Manufacturing and repair of electric neon signs, light sheet metal
products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves, and
other products;
      (10)   Central dry cleaning plants or laundries provided that the plants
shall not deal in a retail business; and
      (11)   All public utilities, including buildings, necessary structures,
storage yards, and other related uses.
   (B)   Animal shelters, subject to the regulations listed in §
153.219(Y);
   (C)   Greenhouses;
   (D)   Kennels, dog, subject to the regulations listed in §
153.219(Z);
   (E)   Municipal uses such as water treatment plants, and reservoirs, sewage
treatment plants and all other municipal buildings and uses, including outdoor
storage;
   (F)   Research and office uses related to industrial operations;
   (G)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone,
lumber, storage of contractor’s equipment and supplies, provided it is enclosed
within a building or within an obscuring wall or fence on those sides abutting
all residential or business districts, and on any yard abutting a public
thoroughfare. In any I-1 District, the extent of the fence or wall may be
determined by the Planning Commission on the basis of usage. The fence or wall
shall not be less than 5 feet in height and may, depending on land usage, be
required to be 8 feet in height. A chain link type fence, with heavy evergreen
shrubbery inside of the fence, shall be considered to be an obscuring fence;
   (H)   Trade or industrial schools;
   (I)   Warehouse, storage and transfer, and electric and gas service
buildings and yards; public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings,
electric transformer stations and substations, and gas regulator stations;
water supply and sewage disposal plants; water and gas tank holders; railroad
transfer and storage tracks; railroad rights-of-way; and freight terminals;
and/or
   (J)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 13.02; Am. Ord. 108, passed 11-10-1997; Am. Ord.
13-200, passed 3- 19-2013)
§ 153.172 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Automobile repair facility (garage, repair);
   (B)   Automobile service station;
   (C)   Car wash establishments;
   (D)   Commercial solar energy systems;
   (E)   Express office/truck terminals;
   (F)   Fast food, carry-out, drive-in, and drive-through restaurants;
   (G)   Junk yards;
   (H)   Lumber and planing mills when completely enclosed and when located in
the interior of the district so that no property line shall form the exterior
boundary of the I-1 District;
   (I)   Metal casting foundries, subject to appropriate measures to control
the process to prevent noxious results and/or nuisances to adjacent residential
or business areas;
   (J)   Metal plating, buffing and polishing, subject to appropriate measures
to control the type of process to prevent noxious results and/or nuisances;
   (K)   Open-air business uses; businesses not conducted within a wholly
enclosed building;
   (L)   Retail uses which have an industrial character in terms of either
their outdoor storage requirements or activities;
   (M)   Self-storage units;
   (N)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses; and
   (O)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 13.03; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006; Am. Ord.
18-231, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 153.173 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201.
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243.
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281.
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302.
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 13.04)
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2)
§ 153.185 INTENT.
   (A)   The Heavy Industrial District is established primarily for
manufacturing, assembling and fabrication activities including large scale or
specialized industrial operations whose external physical effects will be felt
to some degree by surrounding districts.
   (B)   The district is so structured as to permit, in addition to light
manufacturing uses, the manufacturing, processing and compounding of semi-
finished products from raw materials.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 14.01)
§ 153.186 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, altered, or used and no
land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following:
   (A)   Any permitted uses allowed in the Light Industrial District; and/or
   (B)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above permitted uses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 14.02)
§ 153.187 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses are considered special land uses within the district and
may be approved by the Planning Commission subject to the applicable general
and specific standards in §§
153.215 through
153.219 below:
   (A)   Any special land uses allowed in the Light Industrial District;
   (B)   All industrial uses not heretofore permitted, provided those uses can
also meet the following conditions:
      (1)   All access to the use shall be directly from a major road;
      (2)   All driveway and parking areas shall be designed and constructed to
identify clearly all vehicular access areas, and to deny vehicular access to
all other areas;
      (3)   All yards adjacent to a residential district shall be designed,
constructed and landscaped to prevent any adverse effects such as to deny
peaceful enjoyment of the residential district area;
      (4)   All structures, parking areas, driveways, storage areas, and other
activity areas shall be located not less than 200 feet from any residential
district property line;
      (5)   The site plan shall be submitted with a list of all raw materials,
semi-processed material, and/or processed material that will be received,
stored, handled, processed, and/or treated within the land use activity being
proposed;
      (6)   The site plan shall identify the receiving station, processing
line, storage locations, waste discharge location, waste storage location,
shipping and final disposition location, and the types of equipment used in the
processing line;
      (7)   The raw material, products, and waste shall be identified as to
volume and quantity, and where applicable, the degree of and type of toxicity
(by technical title and common title), radioactivity, or hazard potential
represented by the material and products of the land use;
      (8)   The type of and quantity of energy required for the land use
activity shall be identified;
      (9)   The types and maximum number of employees per shift shall be
identified; and
      (10)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to
any of the above special land uses.
   (C)   Storage of flammable liquids, liquefied petroleum gases, and storage
of industrial wastes in bulk.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 14.03)
§ 153.188 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Schedule of regulations: §§
153.200 and
153.201.
   (B)   Site plan review standards: §§
153.230 through
153.243.
   (C)   Parking and loading; unloading standards: §§
153.275 through
153.281.
   (D)   Sign regulations: §§
153.295 through
153.302.
   (E)   Landscaping standards: §§
153.315 through
153.322.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 14.04)
SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS; HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, AND AREA
BY ZONING DISTRICT
§ 153.200 DENSITY, AREA, HEIGHT, BULK, AND PLACEMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following regulations regarding lot sizes, yards, setbacks,
building heights, and densities apply within the zoning districts as indicated,
including the regulations contained in §
153.201 below.
   (B)   No principle building(s) shall be erected, nor shall an existing
principle building(s) be altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open
spaces surrounding any building(s) be encroached upon or reduced in any manner,
except in conformity with the regulations hereby established for the district
in which the principle building(s) is located.
   (C)   No portion of a lot used in complying with the provisions of this
chapter for yards, courts, lot area occupancy, in connection with an existing
or projected principle building(s) or structure, shall again be used to qualify
or justify any other principle building(s) or structure existing or intended to
exist at the same time.
   (D)   For standards applicable to accessory buildings and structures, see §§
153.335 through
153.366 below.
Click here to view a PDF, printer-friendly version of this table
                                               Minimum Yard    Minimum
         Minimum         Maximum               Setback         Livable
         Lot Area        Building     Maximum  (per Lot in     Floor
         (D)        Flag Height (C)   Building Feet) (A)       Area    Utility
Zoning              Lot               Lot                      (B)     Service
District Area       (E)               Coverage Front                   Available
              Width Non  In      In   in             Each      Sq. Ft.
         (Sq. (Ft.) Sec  Stories Feet Sec Line       Side Rear Per
         Ft.)       Line              Road                     Unit
                    Road
                                                           Minimum Yard    Minimum
                  Minimum Lot        Maximum               Setback         Livable
                  Area (D)           Building     Maximum  (per Lot in     Floor
                                Flag Height (C)   Building Feet) (A)       Area    Utility
Zoning District                 Lot               Lot                      (B)     Service
                                (E)               Coverage Front                   Available
                  Area    Width Non  In      In   in             Each      Sq. Ft.
                  (Sq.    (Ft.) Sec  Stories Feet Sec Line       Side Rear Per
                  Ft.)          Line              Road                     Unit
                                Road
                  871,200
AG                (20     660   Yes  2.5     25   10%      50 65 50   75   1,200   None
                  acres)
One non-farm lot may be created in an AG - Agricultural Zoning District from a parent
parcel. For such a lot, the standards of the RF - Residential Farms Zoning District shall
apply.
                                                                                   None or
                  44,000  125                                                      Public
RF                              Yes  2.5     25   10%      50 65 15   50   1,200   Water
                                                                                   Only
                  25,000  100                                                      Public
                                                                                   Sewer
                                                                                   None or
RS                44,000  125   Yes                           50                   Public
                                                                                   Water
                                     2.5     25   30%      30    15   30   1,200   Only
RS (Non- Section                                                                   Pubic
Line Rd.)         10,000  80    No                            –                  Water and
                                                                                   Sewer
R/C               –     150                     70%      50 50 50   50   –      
                                                           50 50 50   50            
                  Mobile home park developments are subject to the minimum requirements and
MHP               standards as established in §§
                  153.095 through
                  153.099 and the Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of 1987, being
                  M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as amended.
RM                217,800 150   No   3       40   30%      50 50 30   30           –
   Efficiency  3,500
unit              per     -     -    -       -    -        -  -  -    -    450     -
                  unit
   1- bedroom  3,500
unit              per     -     -    -       -    -        -  -  -    -    700     -
                  unit
   2- bedroom  4,500
units             per     -     -    -       -    -        -  -  -    -    800     -
                  unit
   3- bedrooms 5,500
units             per     -     -    -       -    -        -  -  -    -    1,000   -
                  unit
   4- bedroom  5,500
units             per     -     -    -       -    -        -  -  -    -    1,200   -
                  unit
Land area used for computing densities in the RM Zoning District shall exclude the rights-
of-way for all roads whether public or private. total acres shall be a minimum of 5 acres.
Where 2 mor more multiple, row or townhouse dwelling structures are erected on the same lot
or parcel, a minimum distance between any 2 structures shall be 30 feet.
O-S               -       100   No   1       30            40 40 0    20   -       -
C-1               -       100   No   1       30   40%      40 40 0    20   -       -
C-2               -       100   No   1       30            40 40 0    20   -       -
I-1               20,000  80    No   2       50   -        60 50 0    35   -       -
I-2               30,000  100   No   2       50   -        60 60 0    35   -       -
In Zoning Districts O-S, C-1 and C-2, no building shall be located closer than 50 feet to
the outer perimeter (property line) of such district when the property line abuts any
residential district.
In Zoning Districts I-1 and I-2, no building shall be located closer than 100 feet to the
outer perimeter (property line) of such district when the property line abuts any
residential district.
 
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 15.01; Am. Ord. 113, passed 8-17-1998; Am. Ord.
100, passed 3-17-1999; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006; Am. Ord. 14-215, passed
11-10-2014)
§ 153.201 FOOTNOTES TO SCHEDULES OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In all agricultural and residential districts, the required front yard
setback shall not be used for off-street parking, loading, or unloading, and
shall remain as open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward
except for landscaping, plant materials, or vehicle access drives. All yards
abutting upon a public street shall be considered as a front yard for setback
purposes. Minimum front yard setback is measured from the right-of-way lane,
based upon information and standards of the County Road Commission.
   (B)   The minimum floor area per dwelling unit shall not include area of
basements, breezeways, porches or attached garages.
   (C)   The maximum height permitted for general and specialized farm
buildings and structures such as silos and windmills shall not exceed 100 feet.
Furthermore, the minimum setback for these structures and buildings shall be
100 feet.
   (D)   A lot depth to lot width ratio of 4:1 shall be the maximum permitted
for the RS District, as well as for lots of 3 acres or less in any other
district.
   (E)   Flag lots may be permitted in any zoning district subject to the
application and review procedures in §§
153.215 through
153.218 and the standards of §
153.219(X).
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 15.02; Am. Ord. 101, passed 7-21-1997; Am. Ord.
104, passed 11-10-1997; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006; Am. Ord. 155, passed 4-
17-2007 )
SPECIAL LAND USE APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 153.215 INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for uses which
are essentially compatible with uses permitted by right in a given district,
but which, by reason of the special nature of the uses or their particular
location in relation to neighboring properties, require a stricter level of
review by the township.
   (B)   Accordingly, special land uses should not be permitted without
consideration of relevant restrictions or conditions being imposed which
address their unique characteristics.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 16.01)
§ 153.216 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for a special land use permit as provided under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the administrative official by
filing a special land use permit application form; submitting required data,
exhibits, and information; and depositing the required fee.
   (B)   The application for a special land use permit shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, address and telephone number;
      (2)   Address and tax description number of the subject parcel;
      (3)   A signed statement that the applicant is the owner of the subject
parcel, or is acting as the owner’s representative;
      (4)   A certified survey drawing of the subject parcel;
      (5)   A site plan;
      (6)   Supporting statements, evidence, data, information, and exhibits
which address the standards and requirements for assessing special land use
permit applications outlined in §§
153.218 and
153.219 below;
      (7)   If requested by the Planning Commission, the applicant will provide
an environmental impact statement dealing with air, water, sound pollution,
storm water runoff, vehicular traffic, and any other areas of concern the
Planning Commission deems necessary;
      (8)   Payment of an application fee, which shall be non-refundable, and
be established by resolution of the Township Board; and
      (9)   Payment of a review fee established by the Township Board to cover
the cost of review by a professional engineer, architect, or planner of
submitted plans. Any portion of the fee not expended shall be returned to the
developer.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 16.02)
§ 153.217 DESIGNATED REVIEW AUTHORITY AND HEARING PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to approve special land use
permits, subject to conditions of design, operation, and appropriate and
reasonable safeguards as the township may require for any special land use
included in the various provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a use requiring special approval,
the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall comply with the requirements of §
153.427.
   (C)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall consider
the special land use permit applications. The decision rendered by the Planning
Commission on the special land use permit application shall be accompanied by a
clear explanation of the reason for the action taken and shall be based on the
criteria in this chapter. Any permit issued shall contain all the specified
conditions under which the use is allowed. Only upon approval of the Planning
Commission shall a special land use permit be issued by the administrative
official.
   (D)   (1)   A special land use permit issued under this section runs with
the land.
      (2)   However, if construction has not commenced and proceeded
meaningfully toward completion by the end of this 1-year period, the
administrative official shall notify the applicant in writing of the expiration
or the revocation of the permit.
      (3)   If an activity permitted by a special land use permit is
discontinued for a period of 1 year, the permit is expired.
   (E)   (1)   The Planning Commission may revoke any special land use permit
if the structure or use does not comply with any of the conditions stated on
the permit or imposed at the time of special land use approval.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall consider the revocation of a special
land use permit at a public hearing on the revocation following the same notice
requirements as required for issuance of a special land use permit.
      (3)   After revocation notice has been given, the use for which the
permit was granted must cease within 60 days.
   (F)   (1)   Failure to terminate the use for which the permit was granted
within 60 days is declared to be a nuisance per se and a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   The violation shall be reported to the Township Attorney who is
hereby authorized to, and shall initiate procedures to eliminate the
violations.
   (G)   No application for a special land use permit which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Planning Commission shall be resubmitted until the
expiration of 1 year or more from the date of the denial, except on the grounds
of newly-discovered evidence or proof of changed conditions.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 16.03; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007 ) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.218 BASIS FOR REVIEW AND DETERMINATION.
   Before making a recommendation on a special land use permit application, the
Planning Commission shall establish that the following general standards, as
well as the specific standards of this chapter are satisfied.
   (A)   General standards. The Planning Commission shall review each
application for the purpose of determining that the proposed use meets the
following standards:
      (1)   Be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives of
the Charter Township of Montrose Community Master Plan;
      (2)   Be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained in harmony with
the existing and intended character of the general area and that the use will
not change the essential character of that area;
      (3)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      (4)   Be served adequately by essential public services and facilities,
such as highways, streets, drainage structures, police and fire protection and
refuse disposal, or persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of
the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately for those services;
      (5)   Will not create excessive requirements at public cost for public
facilities and services, and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of
the community;
      (6)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property,
or the general welfare by reason of excessive smoke, fumes, glare, noise,
vibration or odors; and
      (7)   Will be consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Specific standards.
      (1)   The general standards are applicable to all special land uses.
      (2)   However, certain special land uses, because of their unique
character and potential impact, are required to meet specific standards and
regulations, which are contained in §
153.219 below with specific site and/or use standards are the following:
         (a)   Adult entertainment uses;
         (b)   Adult foster care large group home for 13 to 20 residents;
         (c)   Adult foster care small group home for 7 to 12 residents;
         (d)   Automobile service stations (convenience stores with gasoline
service);
         (e)   Automobile repair facility (repair garage);
         (f)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan and other businesses with
drive-through facilities;
         (g)   Bed-and-breakfast inns;
         (h)   Car washes, automatic or self-service;
         (i)   Duplex (2-family residential structure);
         (j)   Churches, synagogues and other places of worship;
         (k)   Commercial outdoor recreation establishments (excluding golf
related uses);
         (l)   Commercial outdoor storage;
         (m)   Family care home, day care centers, nursery schools, and day
nurseries;
         (n)   Fast-food establishment, carry-out restaurant, drive-in or
drive-through restaurant;
         (o)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
         (p)   Group day care homes;
         (q)   Home occupations;
         (r)   Junk yards;
         (s)   Outdoor sales, sales space for sale of new and used automobiles,
farm equipment, house trailers, and travel trailers;
         (t)   Self storage units; and
         (u)   Utility and public service buildings.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 16.04)
§ 153.219 SPECIAL LAND USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adult entertainment uses.
      (1)   No adult entertainment use shall be located within 1,000 feet of
any other adult entertainment use nor within 600 feet of any of the following
uses:
         (a)   All Class C establishments licensed by the Michigan Liquor
Control Commission;
         (b)   Pool or billiard halls;
         (c)   Coin-operated amusement centers;
         (d)   Teenage discos or dance halls;
         (e)   Ice or roller skating rinks;
         (f)   Pawn shops;
         (g)   Indoor or drive-in movie theaters;
         (h)   Any public park;
         (i)   Any church; or
         (j)   Any public or private school having a curriculum including
kindergarten or any 1 or more of the grades, 1 through 12.
      (2)   Distance in division (A)(1) above shall be measured along the
centerline of the street or streets or address between 2 fixed points on the
center lines determined by projecting straight lines at right angles from the
part of the above listed uses nearest to the contemplated location of the
structure containing the adult entertainment use, and from the contemplated
location of the structure containing the adult entertainment use nearest to a
use listed above.
      (3)   No adult entertainment use shall be located within 500 feet of any
area zoned residential. The required distances shall be measured by a straight
line between a point on the boundary line of a zoned residential area nearest
to the contemplated structure or contemplated location of the structure
containing the adult entertainment use to a point on the contemplated structure
or contemplated location of the structure containing the adult entertainment
use nearest to the boundary lines of a zoned residential area.
      (4)   All adult entertainment uses shall be contained in a freestanding
building. Enclosed malls, commercial strip stores, common wall structures, and
multi-uses within the same structure do not constitute a freestanding building.
      (5)   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing, or relating to "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" from any public way or from
any property not regulated as an adult entertainment use. This provision shall
apply to any display, decoration, sign, show window, or other opening.
   (AA)   Commercial solar energy systems (commonly known as a solar farm). To
promote the use of solar energy within the township as a clean alternative
energy source and to provide for the land development, installation and
construction regulations for commercial SES facilities subject to reasonable
condition that will protect the public health, safety and welfare. The
regulations established herein are minimum requirements and standards for the
placement, construction and modification of commercial SES facilities, while
promoting a renewable energy source for our community in a safe, effective and
efficient manner.
      (1)   Commercial solar energy systems shall be limited and subject to
obtaining a special land use permit from the Planning Commission in AG, RF, C-
2, I-1, and I-2 zoning districts.
      (2)   Commercial solar energy systems facilities shall not be constructed
on parcels less than 20 acres in size.
      (3)   Freestanding or ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be
restricted to a height of 14 feet.
      (4)   All freestanding or ground-mounted solar energy systems and
supporting structures associated with such facilities (excluding perimeter
security fencing and landscaping buffer) shall be a minimum of 10 feet from a
side or rear property line and shall not be located within the required front
yard setback for the zoning district in which it is located. All freestanding
or ground-mounted solar energy system used in a commercial solar energy system
including supporting structures associated with such facilities (excluding
perimeter security fencing and landscaping buffer) shall be a minimum of 500
feet from any dwelling unit located on an adjoining property. The Planning
Commission may, upon approval of a site plan, allow a smaller setback
requirement depending upon the location, surrounding development, and existing
or proposed buffer being provided.
      (5)   Commercial solar energy systems are not subject to any maximum lot
coverage restrictions, however any other regulated structures located on the
parcel are subject to the maximum lot coverage restrictions for the zoning
district in which it is located.
      (6)   A security fence (height and material to be approved by the
Planning Commission through the special land use permit process) shall be
placed around the perimeter of a commercial solar energy system and the
electrical equipment shall be locked. Knox boxes and keys shall be provided at
locked entrances for emergency personnel access.
      (7)   Commercial solar energy system facilities shall not exceed 40 dBA
measured at the property line.
      (8)   Landscaping. Commercial solar energy system facilities shall be
required to install perimeter landscaping equal to 1 tree for each 15 feet of
road or highway frontage. The equivalent of 1 tree shall be required along the
sides and rear of such developments equal to 1 tree every 15 feet of property
line when abutting existing homes or developed parcels. The Planning Commission
may alter the landscaping requirement depending upon the location and existing
plant material on the site. Trees shall be a minimum of 4 feet tall when
planted and remain in good condition for the life of the commercial SES.
      (9)   Local, state and federal permits. Solar energy system facilities
shall be required to obtain all necessary permits from the U.S. Government,
State of Michigan, and Montrose Township, and comply with standards of the
State of Michigan adopted codes.
      (10)   Electrical interconnections. All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes and standard
commercial large-scale utility requirements. Use of above ground transmission
lines shall be prohibited within the site, unless waived by the Planning
Commission during its review and approval of the project.
      (11)   Additional special land use criteria. The following additional
topics shall be included in a review of a site plan and special use permit
application for a commercial SES facility in addition to the general standards
listed in § 153.218:
         (a)   Project description and rationale. Identify the type, size,
rated power output, performance, safety and noise characteristics of the
system, including the name and address of the manufacturer, and model. Identify
time frame, project life, development phases, likely markets for the generated
energy, and possible future expansions;
         (b)   Analysis of onsite traffic;
         (c)   Estimated construction jobs, estimated permanent jobs associated
with the development;
         (d)   Review and demonstrate the visual impact using photos or
renditions of the project or similar projects with consideration given to tree
plantings and setback requirements;
         (e)   Review and demonstrate any potential impact on wildlife on the
site;
         (f)   Identify any impact on the water quality and water supply in the
area, any storm water discharge concerns from the property, and any dust
concerns generated from project activities;
         (g)   Identify any solid waste or hazardous waste generated by the
project;
         (h)   Provide lighting plans showing all lighting within the facility.
No light may adversely affect adjacent parcels. All lighting must be shielded
from adjoining parcels, and light poles are restricted to 18 feet in height;
         (i)   Provide site access plan during construction and operation
phases. Show proposed project service road ingress and egress access onto
primary and secondary routes, layout of the plant service road system. Due to
infrequent access to such facilities after construction is completed, it is not
required to pave or curb access drives. It will be necessary to pave any
driveway and parking lots used for occupied offices that are located on site;
         (j)   Identify emergency and normal shutdown procedures. Identify
potential hazards to adjacent properties, public roadways, and to the community
in general that may be created;
         (k)   Identify noise levels at the property line of the project
boundary when completed;
         (l)   Identify any electromagnetic fields and communications
interference generated by the project; and
         (m)   Describe the decommissioning and final land reclamation plan
after anticipated useful life or abandonment or termination of the project,
including evidence of an agreement with the property owner that ensures proper
final removal of power generating equipment within 6 to 12 months of
decommissioning.
      (12)   The Planning Commission because of the ever-changing technical
capabilities of solar energy systems and of new technology in general shall
have the authority to review and consider alternatives in both dimensional
requirements as well as physical development requirements found in this
section. The Planning Commission shall not have the authority to review or to
allow large commercial SES facilities within any other zoning district.
   (B)   Adult foster care large group home for 13 to 20 residents.
      (1)   A state licensed adult foster care large group home shall not be
located within 750 feet of another similar state licensed facility.
      (2)   One on-site parking space shall be provided for each employee in
addition to the parking required for the dwelling unit or other accessory uses.
      (3)   A designated passenger loading/unloading area of adequate
dimensions shall be provided near a barrier-free entrance to the facility.
      (4)   A loading/unloading area of adequate dimensions shall be provided
for delivery vehicles servicing the facility.
      (5)   A landscaped buffer shall be provided along all property lines that
abut a less intense land use and around the visible perimeters of all parking
and loading/unloading areas.
      (6)   All exterior lighting of entryways, parking spaces, or loading/
unloading areas shall not reflect onto adjacent properties and, preferably,
should be motion activated.
   (C)   Adult foster care small group home for 7 to 12 residents.
      (1)   A state licensed adult foster care large group home shall not be
located within 750 feet of another similar state licensed facility.
      (2)   One on-site parking space shall be provided for each employee in
addition to the parking required for the dwelling unit or other accessory uses.
      (3)   The property (architecture and landscaping) shall be maintained in
a manner that is consistent with the character of the neighborhood.
   (D)   Automobile service stations (convenience stores with gasoline
service).
      (1)   There shall be a minimum lot area of 10,000 square feet and minimum
lot width of 100 feet.
      (2)   Pump islands shall be a minimum of 15 feet from any public right-
of-way or lot line.
      (3)   The curb cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall not
be permitted at a location that will tend to create traffic hazards in the
streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrances shall be no less than 25 feet
from a street intersection (measured from the road right-of-way).
      (4)   Where adjoining a residentially zoned district or use, a solid
fence or wall 6 feet in height shall be erected along any common lot line. The
fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in good condition.
      (5)   Any repair work shall be conducted completely within an enclosed
building.
      (6)   There shall be no storage of vehicle components and parts, trash,
supplies, or equipment outside of a building.
      (7)   In the event that an automobile service station use has been
abandoned or terminated for a period of more than 1 year, all underground
gasoline storage tanks shall be removed from the premises.
   (E)   Automobile repair facility (repair garage).
      (1)   The use shall always be located on a plot of ground having frontage
along a public street of not less than 150 feet and having a minimum area of
not less than 2 acres.
      (2)   All repair work must be carried out within an enclosed building.
      (3)   No automobile repair garage shall be erected within a 200 foot
radius of any residential district.
      (4)   (a)   Outdoor storage of junked equipment or parts is prohibited
unless the junked equipment or parts is storied adjacent to the principal
building in an obscure location that is enclosed with a solid masonry-screening
wall.
         (b)   When screening is provided, the junked equipment or parts shall
not be stacked or heaped higher than the height of the screening wall nor
exceed 10% of the total yard area, excluding area taken up by structures.
         (c)   The screening wall shall not be higher than 6 feet.
      (5)   An automobile repair facility (garage, repair) use shall not
include the parking of dismantled, non-licensed, or non-repairable vehicles of
any kind, unless ordered by a law-enforcement agency. The storage, sale or
rental of new or used cars, motorcycles, mini-bikes or similar vehicles,
wrecked or otherwise, shall not be considered a use or accessory use to an
automobile repair garage, unless additional approval is granted by the Planning
Commission for those uses as an open-air business use.
      (6)   All temporary outdoor storage of vehicles for repair shall not be
located within 50 feet of a public right-of-way or a residential district nor
stored for more than 30 days.
   (F)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan and other businesses with
drive-through facilities.
      (1)   Only 1 ingress/egress driveway shall be permitted on any single
street.
      (2)   If the use is located on a corner lot, access to the drive-up
facility shall be derived only from the street which carries the least amount
of traffic at the time the application is approved, except that access from any
other street may be shared with an adjoining property.
      (3)   Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through facility shall
be provided to ensure that traffic does not extend into the street.
      (4)   A minimum of 5 stacking spaces (including 1 space at the drive-
through facility) per each drive-through facility station shall be provided.
      (5)   Spaces in addition to the minimum required shall be provided if
determined by the Planning Commission to be necessary to ensure that traffic
does not extend into the street.
      (6)   Stacking shall be planned so as to minimize conflicts with entering
and exiting traffic, pedestrians, and parking areas.
   (G)   Bed-and-breakfast inns.
      (1)   Parking areas shall be located off-street and shall not be located
in any required front yard.
      (2)   No bed-and-breakfast inn shall be located closer than 300 feet to
another bed-and-breakfast inn.
      (3)   Meals or other services provided on the premises shall only be
available to residents, employees, and overnight guests in the inn.
      (4)   The dwelling unit in which the bed and breakfast establishment is
located shall be the principal residence of the operator, and the operator
shall live on the premises while the establishment is active.
   (H)   Car washes; automatic or self-service.
      (1)   Only 1 ingress/egress driveway shall be permitted on any single
street.
      (2)   Where adjoining residentially zoned or used property a solid fence
or wall 6 feet in height shall be erected along any common lot line. The fence
or wall shall be continuously maintained in good condition.
      (3)   Sufficient stacking capacity shall be provided to ensure that
traffic does not extend into the street.
      (4)   Self-service car washes shall provide a minimum of 4 stacking
spaces (including 1 in the wash stall) per each washing stall.
      (5)   Automatic washes shall provide a minimum of 15 stacking spaces
(including 2 in the washing facility).
      (6)   Spaces in addition to the minimum required shall be provided if
determined by the Planning Commission to be necessary to ensure that traffic
does not extend into the street.
      (7)   Stacking shall be planned so as to minimize conflicts with entering
and exiting traffic, pedestrians and parking areas.
   (I)   Churches, synagogues, and other places of worship.
      (1)   The site shall be so located as to provide for ingress and egress
from the site directly onto a major or secondary thoroughfare.
      (2)   The principal buildings on the site shall be setback from abutting
properties zoned for residential uses not less than 15 feet.
      (3)   Buildings of greater than the maximum height, may be allowed,
provided front, side and rear yards are increased above the minimum
requirements by 1 foot for each foot of building that exceeds the maximum
height allowed.
   (J)   Commercial outdoor recreation establishments (excluding golf related
uses).
      (1)   These uses shall include, but need not be limited to, the
following: recreational fields, rinks, or courts, (including football,
softball, soccer, tennis, basketball, ice skating, and similar activities)
archery and shooting ranges, go-cart tracks, music concert pavilions and band
shells, amusement parks, and driving ranges open to the general public or
operated by a private or non-profit organization.
      (2)   No building or spectator seating facility shall be located within
100 feet of a property line.
      (3)   Provisions shall be taken, at the discretion of the Planning
Commission, to ensure that excessive dust, noise, traffic, lighting glare, and
trespassing are not inflicted on adjacent properties.
      (4)   Children’s amusement park must be fenced on all sides with a 4-foot
wall or fence.
      (5)   Adequate parking shall be provided off the road right-of-way and
shall be fenced with a 4-foot, 6-inch wall or fence where adjacent to the use.
   (K)   Commercial outdoor storage.
      (1)   A special land use permit for commercial outdoor storage shall be
required whenever stored goods are not owned and/or produced by the owner of
the property on which they are stored.
      (2)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted in the front yard or in any
required side yard or required rear yard of buildings for the district in which
the commercial outdoor storage use is located.
      (3)   Where an outdoor storage area is adjacent to a residential zoned
district or use, a buffer shall be erected along any common lot line. The fence
or wall shall be continuously maintained in good condition.
   (L)   Duplex (2-family residential structure).
      (1)   The schedule of regulations applicable to the district where the
duplex is located shall apply.
      (2)   Each unit shall have the minimum square footage required for
apartments in the RM District.
      (3)   A minimum of 2 parking spaces per unit must provided. Required
residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a parking strip, parking
bay, driveway, garage, or combination thereof and shall be located on the same
lot of the premises they intended to serve.
   (M)   Family care home, day care centers, nursery schools, and day
nurseries.
      (1)   The structure housing the activity shall comply with all setbacks,
required by the zoning district which it is located in.
      (2)   The structure housing the activity and the landscaping shall be
designed and constructed to blend and harmonize with existing residential
development in the area.
      (3)   For each child licensed there shall be provided, equipped and
maintained, on the premises, a minimum of 100 square feet of usable outdoor
play area (minimum total area of 1,000 square feet per facility).
      (4)   The outdoor play area shall be suitably fenced and screened by a
planted greenbelt from any abutting residential uses.
      (5)   The facility shall have frontage and direct access to a public
road.
   (N)   Fast-food establishment, carry-out restaurant, drive-in or drive-
through restaurant.
      (1)   A setback of at least 60 feet from the street right-of-way line of
any existing or propose public road must be maintained.
      (2)   Points of vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to an
adjacent paved section line road or shared service drive only and site plans
shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission for location and design of curb
cuts, service drive, and driveways and for layout of parking lots.
      (3)   The minimum width of driveways at the property line shall be 24
feet, and not greater than 30 feet.
      (4)   The minimum distance of any driveway to property line shall be 7
feet.
      (5)   The minimum distance between driveways on the site shall be 75 feet
measured from the 2 closest driveways’ curbs.
      (6)   The minimum distance a driveway into the site shall be from a
street intersection shall be 60 feet measured from the intersection of the
street right-of-way to the nearest end of the curb radius.
      (7)   Concrete curbing, 6 inches in height, shall be properly placed and
maintained along or parallel to all property lines, except where bumper guards
are required and except across approved driveways, so as to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the public right-of-way and to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the adjoining property, or vehicular damage to the
adjoining buildings.
      (8)   All outside trash receptacles, except those intended for use by the
customer, shall be located within an enclosure constructed of opaque masonry
materials 6 feet in height and shall be provided with opaque gates of the same
height.
   (O)   Greenhouses and nurseries.
      (1)   The parking area shall be buffered a minimum of 4 feet so as not to
disrupt abutting residential properties with noise or headlights.
      (2)   There shall be side yard setbacks of at least 35 feet on either
side of the greenhouse.
      (3)   All loading and parking shall be provided off-street.
      (4)   The storage or display of any materials shall conform to all
building setback requirements of a structure.
      (5)   The storage of any soil, fertilizer, or other loose, unpackaged
materials shall be contained so as to prevent any adverse affects on adjacent
uses.
   (P)   Group day care homes.
      (1)   A group day care home shall not be located closer than 1,500 feet
to any of the following facilities as measured along a street, road, or other
public thoroughfare:
         (a)   Another licensed group day care home;
         (b)   An adult foster care large group home licensed by the State of
Michigan;
         (c)   A facility offering substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation
services to 7 or more people which is licensed by the State of Michigan; or
         (d)   A community correction center, resident home, halfway house, or
other similar facility which houses an inmate population under the jurisdiction
of the Department of Corrections.
      (2)   All outdoor plan areas shall be enclosed by a non-climbable fence
that is at least 60 inches high.
      (3)   The property (landscaping and architecture) shall be maintained in
a manner that is consistent with the character of the neighborhood. A group day
care home should not require exterior modifications to the dwelling nor should
the front yard be the location of play equipment.
      (4)   One identification sign shall be permitted. The sign face shall not
be greater than 2 square feet, shall be mounted flush to a wall, made of a
material that is compatible with the dwelling unit, and shall not be
illuminated. Sign text shall be limited to the name of the day care operator
and an address.
      (5)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each non-family
employee of the group day care home in addition to the parking normally
required for the residence. A driveway may be used to fulfill this requirement.
      (6)   The hours of operation should not exceed 16 hours during a 24-hour
period. The township may limit but not prohibit the operation of a group day-
care home between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (Q)    [Reserved]
   (R)   Junk yards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 10 acres.
      (2)   The setback from the front property line to the area upon which
junk materials are stored shall be not less than 100 feet and shall be provided
with a greenbelt buffer. A greenbelt buffer shall also be provided when the
junk yard is adjacent to a residential use or district.
      (3)   Junk yards shall be screened from the roadway and from any
adjoining property by an obscuring fence 8 feet in height. The fence shall be
kept uniformly painted, neat in appearance, and shall not have any signs or
symbols painted on it. A solid masonry wall at least 8 feet in height, shall be
required when adjacent to a street or highway or residential or commercial
district.
      (4)   All activities and materials shall be kept within the enclosed area
formed by the obscuring fence. Material shall not be stacked or piled above the
plane established by the top of the obscuring fence.
      (5)   All structures, off street parking and fencing and used material
storage yards shall be set back not less than 50 feet from any public road
right-of-way.
      (6)   All roads, driveways, and parking lots used by the general public
shall be paved, and loading and unloading areas within any junk yard shall be
paved, watered or chemically treated so as to limit for adjoining lots and
public roads, the nuisance caused by wind-borne dust.
   (S)   Outdoor sales; new and used automobiles, farm equipment, house
trailers and travel trailers.
      (1)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60
feet from the intersection of any 2 roads.
      (2)   An automobile repair facility (garage, repair) shall not be
considered an accessory use unless additional approval is granted by the
Planning Commission for those uses as an automobile repair facility (garage,
repair) use.
      (3)   The sale of space of new and used automobiles shall comply with all
applicable state regulations.
   (T)   Self storage units.
      (1)   The minimum size of the site devoted to the use shall not be less
than 2 acres.
      (2)   Building separation between self-storage buildings on the same site
shall be 15 feet, as measured from side-to-side.
      (3)   The total lot coverage of all structures shall be limited to 50% of
the total lot area.
      (4)   A barrier shall be provided around the perimeter of the
development. The barrier shall be located at the property line. It shall be a
minimum of 6 feet in height and shall be constructed of brick, stone, masonry
units, wood products, or chain link which are determined by the administrative
official to be durable and weather resistant.
      (5)   A 10 foot landscaped greenbelt shall be provided between the
property line and required barrier along all street frontages. A 5-foot
landscaped greenbelt shall be provided between the property line and barrier
where the site abuts any residential district.
      (6)   Parking shall be provided in the ratio of 1 space for each 2,000
square feet of gross building area. At a minimum, 2 parking spaces must be
assigned to, and located conveniently to, each individual storage building. In
addition, 2 spaces for the resident manager, and 1 additional space for each
additional employee shall be provided adjacent to the rental office.
      (7)   Internal driveway aisles shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width.
      (8)   All off-street parking areas and driveways shall consist of a
minimum of 6 inches compacted gravel.
      (9)   All ingress and egress from this site shall be directly onto a
public thoroughfare.
      (10)   Building height shall not exceed 1 story or 15 feet, except that a
caretaker or resident manager’s unit may be allowed a building height of 2
stories or 25 feet.
      (11)   The use of the premises shall be limited to storage only, and
shall not be used for any auction, sales, storage, or the servicing, repair, or
fabrication of any vehicle, boat, trailer, or similar item.
   (U)   Utility and public service buildings.
      (1)   The area occupied by a like activity shall not include any storage
of equipment or parts, nor the stationing of personnel for other than necessary
repairs or periodic maintenance of the lot area or buildings.
      (2)   All operational and moving machinery shall be housed within a
building.
      (3)   All structures shall be located in compliance with all setback and
height requirements for residential uses in a district.
      (4)   The entire perimeter of the lot shall be secured to prevent access
to the premises.
   (V)   Two-family dwellings (duplex).
      (1)   It is the intent of the township to require 2-family residential
dwellings (duplex) to be serviced by municipal sewer and water and developed in
accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Minimum lot sArea   25,000 square feet
                                        Width   150 feet
         (b)   Maximum buildStories   2.5
         (c)   Maximum lot c25%rage:
         (d)   Minimum yard Front - Section Line Road   65 feet
                                        Front – Non-Section Line Road   50 feet
                                        Sides      15 feet
                                        Rear      50 feet
 
         (e)   Land area used for computing lot sizes shall exclude the right-
of-ways for all roads whether public and private (see §
153.007).
      (2)   The minimum livable floor area for 2-family residential dwelling
units must comply with the standards allowed in the RM Zoning District under §§
153.200 and
153.201.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may allow a 2-family residential dwelling
(duplex) with an alternate to public sewer and water, (well and septic) only
after the approval of the County Health Department has been obtained. In the
event that approval is obtained from the Health Department, the minimum lot
size shall be increased to that as required by the Health Department for the
installation of the well and septic systems.
      (4)   Driveway access shall be through a common driveway approved by the
County Road Commission and or State Highway Department. The maximum with of the
common drive shall not exceed 24 feet and shall be hard surfaced.
      (5)   Accessory structures shall comply with all requirements of §
153.340.
      (6)   All uniform design standards shall comply with the requirements of
§
153.336.
   (W)   Single-family semi-detached dwellings.
      (1)   It is the intent of the township to limit single-family semi-
detached residential dwellings to platted subdivisions or site condominium
projects where constructions of these types of dwelling units are compatible
within the development and be serviced by municipal sewer and water and
developed in accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Minimum lot size:
               Section Line Roads
                  Area   25,00 square feet
                  Width   125 feet
               Non-Section Line Roads
                  Area   10,000 square feet
                  Width   80 feet
         (b)   Maximum Building Height:   Stories   2.5
         (c)   Maximum lot coverage:      30%
         (d)   Minimum yard setbacks:
               Front - Section Line Road         50 feet
               Front - Non-Section Line Road      30 feet
               One - Side                     15 feet
               Rear                        30 feet
         (e)   Land area used for computing lot sizes shall exclude the rights-
of-way for all roads whether public and private (See §
153.007).
      (2)   The minimum livable floor area for singe-family semi-detached
dwelling units shall not be less than 1,200 square feet.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall comply with all requirements of §
153.340.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may allow a single-family semi-detached
dwelling with an alternate to public sewer and water, (well and septic) only
after the approval of the County Health Department has been obtained. In the
event that approval is obtained from the Health Department, the minimum lot
size shall be increased to that as required by the Health Department for the
installation of the well and septic systems.
      (5)   All uniform design standards shall comply with the requirements of
§
153.336.
   (X)   Flag lots permitted. Flag lots may be permitted as a special land use
in any zoning district in compliance with this chapter and provided that they
conform to the requirements of this section.
      (1)   A flag lot can only be created to serve 1 building structure.
      (2)   A flag lot must contain 33 feet of road frontage to serve as
ingress and egress to a public road. The 33-foot access right-of-way must be
part of and included in the legal description of the flag lot (see flag lot
illustration, §
153.007).
      (3)   All flag lots created shall comply with the district regulations
for the district in which it is located. The access right-of-way serving a flag
lot, wetlands, floodplain areas and easements serving underground drains and
utilities, shall be excluded when calculating the requirements for compliance
with §§
153.200 and
153.201.
      (4)   Flag lots must comply with the Land Division Act and may not exceed
the 4 to 1 width to depth ratio unless said lot exceeds 10 acres.
      (5)   A flag lot may not be created where it would reduce an existing
side or rear yard setback of an adjoining lot to less than 50 feet.
      (6)   Driveways located within an access right-of-way shall maintain a
minimum setback of 5 feet from property lines.
      (7)   The placement of all structures on a flag lot shall be so arraigned
so that it shall not be a detriment or nuisance to adjoining properties. The
Planning Commission may require buffering along adjoining property lines to
provide adequate separation between buildings.
      (8)   Flag lots containing an access drive within the right-of-way of 200
feet or more in length from a public road shall provide a maneuvering turn
around area within 50 feet of the principal structure. The turn around
maneuvering area shall be at least 24 feet by 50 feet in size and shall be at
least 10 feet in width. The access drive, with a minimum width of 10 feet,
shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete, stone, or other material
demonstrating a weight bearing capacity for public safety vehicles.
   (Y)   Animal shelters. Animal shelters, located in an AG -Agricultural and
or a RF Residential Farms zoning district shall be reviewed and approved under
the regulations for home occupations. Animal shelters, located in a non-
residential structure in a C-2, General Commercial and or an I-1, Light
Industrial zoning district are not subject to obtaining an annual zoning
compliance permit.
      (1)   Animal shelters located in an AG - Agricultural or a RF -
Residential Farms zoning district shall meet and comply with the same standards
as required for kennels listed under division (Z) below.
      (2)   Animal shelters located in a C2 - General Commercial or an I-1 -
Light Industrial zoning district shall comply with the general requirements of
the district as listed in §§
153.200 and
153.201, footnotes, however all kennel buildings, structures, and related runs/
or exercise areas shall be located not less than 250 feet from all adjacent
residential dwelling units.
      (3)   The Planning Commission during its review and approval may increase
the required setbacks if it is determined that the increase setback is
necessary to protect adjacent properties from the nuisances caused by noise,
odors or other off-site impacts. The Planning Commission may also establish
limitation regarding hours of operation, number and types of animals housed,
the extent of accessory operations including veterinary services provided on
site and other operational characteristic of the use to ensure that the
facility is consistent with the character of the surrounding area.
   (Z)   Kennels, dog - commercial and private. Commercial and private kennels
may be permitted as a special land use and reviewed under the requirements for
a home occupation in zoning districts AG - Agricultural, and RF - Residential
Farm. Commercial kennels may be permitted as a special land use, not subject to
the requirements for a home occupation in a C-2 General Commercial zoning
district and as a permitted land use in an I-1 - Light Industrial zoning
district. All commercial and private kennels must comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   All kennels shall operate in conformance with all applicable county
and state regulations.
      (2)   The minimum lot size for commercial kennels shall be 10 acres, with
250 feet of road frontage. The minimum lot size for private kennels shall be 5
acres, with 250 feet of road frontage. The Planning Commission may modify the
lot size and road frontage requirements for kennels based on the specific
characteristic of the use being requested.
      (3)   Kennel buildings, structures, and related runs/or exercise areas
shall not be located in front of the main principal structure located on the
property and comply with the following setbacks:
         (a)   Sides - Not less than 75 feet;
         (b)   Rear - Not less than 50 feet;
         (c)   All adjacent residential dwelling units -not less than 250 feet.
      (4)   Kennels shall comply with the following requirements except where
the dogs are housed or kept within the main residential dwelling unit located
on the property and a fenced in areas is provided in a rear yard area for use
by said household pets.
         (a)   Kennels shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in
good repair. Floors shall be constructed of non-toxic, easily cleaned water
impervious material.
         (b)   All dogs kept in a kennel shall be provided with an inside
sleeping area, which will protect them against inclement weather, preserves the
animal's body heat and keeps them dry. These sleeping areas shall also be
ventilated in such a manner as will provide fresh air at all times and shall be
kept clean and in a sanitary condition. Inside pens or sleeping areas shall be
of the following sizes:
            1.   For dogs weighing not more than 25 pounds, 5 square feet per
animal;
            2.   For dogs weighing more than 25 pounds but not more than 45
pounds, 9 square feet per animal;
            3.   For dogs weighing over 45 pounds, 16 square feet per animal.
         (c)   Inside or outside runs shall be provided and shall be not less
than 36 inches wide and 10 feet in length.
         (d)   Feces and other excreta shall be removed as necessary to
maintain a safe and sanitary condition. Excreta shall be disposed of in a
sanitary manner.
         (e)   All dogs shall be provided with clean fresh water and sufficient
wholesome food. Food and water containers shall be kept clean and sanitized.
      (5)   In an AG - Agricultural or RF - Residential Farm zoning district
there shall be no change in the outside appearance of the structure or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such kennel other than 1
sign not exceeding 2 square feet in area, non-illuminated and ground mounted
with a setback of 5 feet from the front right-of-way line.
      (6)   In a C-2, General Commercial or I-1, Light Industrial zoning
district signage for commercial kennels shall comply with requirements found in
§§
153.295 through
153.302, the township's sign regulations.
      (7)   In an AG - Agricultural or RF - Residential Farm zoning district
where an annual zoning compliance/home occupation permit is denied by the
Building/Zoning Official, an appeal may be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 16.05; Am. Ord. 102, passed 7-21-1997; Am. Ord.
114, passed 11-9-1998; Am. Ord. 148, passed 5-16-2006; Am. Ord. 152, passed 1-
16-2007; Am. Ord. 155, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord. 158, passed 7-17-2007; Am.
Ord. 13-200, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 18-231, passed 12-18-2018; Am. Ord. 21-
006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR SITE PLANS
AND CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
§ 153.230 REQUIRED SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   Prior to the establishment of a new use, change of use, addition to an
existing use, or the erection of any building in a zoning district, subject to
the conditions listed below, a site plan shall be submitted and approved,
approved with conditions, or disapproved by the Township Planning Commission in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   (1)   Site plan reviews are required for all permitted uses,
structures and special land uses in all zoning districts.
      (2)   One and 2-family dwellings and their accessory uses are exempt from
site plan review.
   (B)   (1)   When the proposed new construction or remodeling constitutes an
addition to an existing building, existing site, or use, site plan review
procedures may be modified, at the discretion of the Building Official, to
provide for an administrative review and approval by the Building Official in
lieu of a more formal review by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Building Official may conduct an administrative review provided
all of the following are true:
         (a)   No variances to this chapter are required;
         (b)   The proposed new construction would not increase the total
square footage of the building greater than 10% or 400 square feet, whichever
is less. The proposed new construction shall not create any additional parking
demands as required by §§
153.275 through
153.281 or alter the character of any site plan;
         (c)   The site had not been reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission within the last 12 months; and
         (d)   No administrative reviews had previously occurred on the same
site in the preceding 36 months.
   (C)   (1)   For those cases requiring site plan review solely as a result of
building re-occupancy, site plan review procedures may be modified, at the
discretion of the Building Official, to provide for an administrative review
and approval by the Building Official in lieu of a more formal review by the
Township Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Building Official may conduct an administrative review provided
all of the following are true:
         (a)   No variances to this chapter are required;
         (b)   The use is conducted within a completely enclosed building;
         (c)   Re-occupancy does not create additional parking demands, beyond
10% of that which exists; and
         (d)   Re-occupancy does not substantially alter the character of the
site.
   (D)   (1)   Every site plan submitted for review shall be in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Administrative review procedures are not intended to modify any
ordinance, regulation or development standards or previously approved site
plans by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   In no instance shall administrative site plan review and approval
be allowed for a special land use.
   (E)   An administrative review approved by the Building Official shall be
forwarded to the Planning Commission along with any stated conditions within 30
days.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.01; Am. Ord. 145, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 153.231 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Application for site plan review shall be made by submitting the following
materials to the Township Clerk at least 3 weeks prior to the Planning
Commission meeting at which the site plan is to be considered:
   (A)   Ten copies of a site plan containing all of the information required
in §
153.232 below;
   (B)   A completed application on an appropriate form provided by the
Township Clerk;
   (C)   Payment of an application fee, which shall be non-refundable, and be
established by resolution of the Township Board;
   (D)   Payment of a review fee established by the Township Board to cover the
cost of a review by a professional engineer, architect, or planner of submitted
plans. Any portion of the fee not expended shall be returned to the developer;
and
   (E)   The developer will be required to pay 100% of all review costs and
will be provided copies of bills upon request.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.02)
§ 153.232 REQUIRED SITE PLAN INFORMATION.
   A site plan shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The date, north arrow and scale. The scale shall be not less than 1
inch equals 50 feet for property under 3 acres and at least 1 inch equals 100
feet for those 3 acres or more;
   (B)   All lot and/or property lines are to be shown and dimensioned. All
required and provided setbacks shall be shown;
   (C)   The location and height of all existing and proposed structures on and
within 100 feet of the subject property;
   (D)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed drives,
sidewalks, curb openings, signs, exterior lighting, parking areas (show
dimensions of a typical parking space), unloading areas, and recreation areas;
   (E)   The location and the pavement and right-of-way width of all abutting
roads, streets, or alleys;
   (F)   The name and firm address of the professional civil engineering or
architectural firm(s) responsible for the preparation of the site plan;
   (G)   The name and address of the property owner or petitioner;
   (H)   The location of all rubbish receptacles and landscaping and the
location, height, and type of fences and walls;
   (I)   Size and location of existing and proposed utilities including
proposed connections to public sewer or water supply systems;
   (J)   Location of all fire hydrants, if applicable;
   (K)   A summary schedule should be affixed, if applicable, which gives the
following data:
      (1)   The number of dwelling units proposed, to include the number, size,
and location of 1-bedroom units, 2-bedroom units and the like; and
      (2)   The residential area of the site in acres and in square feet,
including the breakdowns for any sub-areas or staging areas (excluding all
existing rights-of-way).
   (L)   Size and location of all surface drainage facilities;
   (M)   Existing and proposed contour shall be shown on all site plans (2-foot
interval minimum) as may be required by the Township Engineer;
   (N)   Utility and other easements;
   (O)   Clusters of trees, as well as existing individual trees over 24 inches
in diameter;
   (P)   Existing wetlands;
   (Q)   Floodplains, drainage courses, lakes, ponds, drains, rivers, and
streams, including their water surface elevation, floodplain elevation, and
normal high water elevation;
   (R)   List of soils on the site utilizing the Soil Conservation Service’s
most recent "Soil Survey of Genesee County;"
   (S)   Proposed sign locations; and
   (T)   For multiple-family development site plans, there shall be shown
typical elevation views of the front and side of each type of building
proposed, as well as typical dimensioned floor plans for each type of dwelling
unit.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.03)
§ 153.233 SITE PLAN REVIEW STANDARDS.
   All site plans shall comply with applicable provisions of this chapter and
with each of the following standards.
   (A)   Natural features.
      (1)   Existing natural features of the site, including vegetation,
topography, water features, and other features, shall be preserved to the
greatest extent practical.
      (2)   Only those areas under actual development shall be disturbed.
   (B)   Building relationships. Buildings and structures shall be placed in an
orderly, non-random fashion so that an un-crowded, open appearance is
maintained.
   (C)   Drives, parking, and circulation.
      (1)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation shall be designed so as to
provide for safe and efficient movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
      (2)   Points of vehicular access to public streets shall be limited to
the minimum number required to provide safe and efficient access.
      (3)   Points of access shall be directly aligned or be offset a minimum
of 150 feet, wherever possible.
   (D)   Surface water drainage.
      (1)   Special attention shall be given to proper site surface drainage so
that removal of surface waters will not adversely affect neighboring properties
or the public storm drainage system.
      (2)   Temporary on-site storage to reduce peak runoff from the site may
be required.
      (3)   Surface water in all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so
that it will not obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and will
not create standing water in the paved areas.
   (E)   Special features. Exposed storage areas, trash areas, service areas,
truck loading areas, utility buildings and structures, and similar accessory
areas shall be reasonably screened from view from adjoining streets, and
adjoining properties.
   (F)   Emergency access. The site plan shall provide for adequate access to
the site and to all buildings for emergency vehicles.
   (G)   Exterior lighting. The lighting shall be located and designed so that
illumination is directed away from adjacent properties and streets.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.04)
§ 153.234 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   The Planning Commission, upon reviewing a site plan, shall take 1 of the
following actions.
   (A)   Approval. If the site plan meets all the Zoning Ordinance and related
development requirements and standards, the Planning Commission shall record
the approval and the Chairperson shall sign 3 copies of the site plan, filing 1
in the official site plan file, forwarding 1 to the administrative official,
and returning 1 to the applicant.
   (B)   Disapproval. If the site plan does not meet Zoning Ordinance and
related development requirements and standards, the Planning Commission shall
record the reasons for denial. The applicant may subsequently re-file a
corrected site plan under the same procedures followed for the initial
submission.
   (C)   Conditional approval.
      (1)   If minor corrections to the site are necessary, which can be
clearly noted, then the Planning Commission shall so note the conditions and
the Chairperson shall sign 3 site plans as conditionally approved and stating
the necessary conditions.
      (2)   One copy shall be retained in the official site plan file, 1
forwarded to the Township Clerk, and 1 returned to the applicant.
   (D)   Table. If the site plan is found to be in violation of the
requirements or incomplete with respect to necessary information, the Planning
Commission may table action on the site plan until compliance is shown or
required additional information is provided.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.05)
§ 153.235 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE AND REVOCATION FOR APPROVED SITE PLANS.
   (A)   (1)   To ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any
conditions imposed in the approval of the site plan by the Planning Commission,
the Planning Commission may require that a cash deposit, certified check,
irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety bond acceptable to the Planning
Commission covering the estimated costs of improvements associated with a
project for which a site plan approval is sought be deposited with the Township
Clerk to ensure faithful completion of the improvements.
      (2)   The performance guarantee if required shall be deposited at the
time of the issuance of the building permit authorizing the activity or project
and shall be refunded at a time that a final occupancy permit is issued by the
Building Official.
    (B)   (1)   Any site plan approval shall be revoked when construction of
the development is not in conformance with the approved plans, in which case
the Planning Commission shall give the applicant notice of intention to revoke
the approved plans at least 10 days prior to review of the violation by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   After conclusion of the review, the Planning Commission shall
revoke its approval of the development if the Commission feels that a violation
in fact exists and has not been remedied prior to the hearing.
   (C)   (1)   The approval by the Planning Commission of any site plan under
the provisions of this chapter shall expire and be considered automatically
revoked 1 year after the date of the approval unless actual construction has
commenced and is proceeding in accordance with the issuance of a valid building
permit.
      (2)   If construction activity ceases for any reason for a period of more
than 1 year, any subsequent use of the land shall be subject to review and
approval of a new site plan for the property in conformance with the
regulations specified by this chapter, except that the Planning Commission may,
at its discretion, upon application by the owner and for cause shown, provide
for up to 2 successive 12-month extensions.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.06; Am. Ord. 145, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 153.236 CHANGES TO APPROVED SITE PLANS.
   Amendments or changes to an approved site plan may be made provided that any
the changes are in compliance with this chapter and the changes have been
reviewed and approved in compliance with §§
153.230 through
153.232 above.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.07)
§ 153.237 REQUIRED CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT REVIEW.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority conferred by the Condominium Act, Public Act 59
of 1978 § 141, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, all
condominium projects must be approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   In determining whether to approve a condominium plan, the Planning
Commission shall consult with the administrative official, Township Attorney,
Township Engineer, and Township Planner regarding the adequacy of the master
deed, deed restrictions, utility systems and streets, subdivision layout and
design, and compliance with all requirements of the Condominium Act.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.08)
§ 153.238 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   All condominium projects and structures shall comply with all the use, size,
sign, height, area and setback regulations of the zoning district in which the
condominiums project is located.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.09)
§ 153.239 APPROVAL REQUIRED; PROCESS.
   (A)   Approval under this section shall be required as a condition to the
right to construct, expand or convert a condominium project in the Charter
Township of Montrose.
   (B)   The approval process shall involve 3 phases:
      (1)   Preliminary plan approval;
      (2)   Site plan approval; and
      (3)   Final engineering plan approval.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.10)
§ 153.240 PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   A developer of a condominium project shall initially submit to the
administrative official 3 copies of an application for preliminary plan
approval, accompanied by a preliminary plan and plan review fee deposit as
established by the Township Board.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall be prepared by a registered professional,
and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of:
         (a)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium project will be located together with a
description of the nature of each entity’s interest. (i.e., fee owner, optionee
or land contract vendee);
         (b)   All engineers, attorneys, architects or registered land
surveyors associated with the project; and
         (c)   The developer of the condominium project.
      (2)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed together with appropriate tax identification numbers;
      (3)   The current zoning of the parcels(s) and the zoning of the adjacent
properties;
      (4)   Location map of the project;
      (5)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed;
      (6)   The purpose of the project (i.e. residential, commercial,
industrial and the like);
      (7)   Location and size of building sites, envelopes, buildings, roads,
parking areas, sidewalks, landscaping features, signs and utilities;
      (8)   Street and utility specifications and sectional diagrams;
      (9)   All areas within the 100-year floodplain, wetland areas or bodies
of water; and
      (10)   Existing and projected topographical contours at a minimum of 2-
foot intervals.
   (C)   Following the review, the preliminary plan shall be reviewed by the
Township Planning Commission for conformance with all applicable laws and
ordinances, including the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The township shall either approve, deny, or approve the application
with conditions with a time limit for compliance with the conditions and
resubmission, as deemed appropriate by the Township Planning Commission
preliminary plan approval shall confer upon the developer a commitment of
approval for a period of 1 year with regard to the size, shape, and layout of
building sites, and street layout.
   (E)   The preliminary plan approval may be extended if applied for by the
proprietor within the effective period and approved by the Township Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.11)
§ 153.241 SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Following approval of the preliminary plan, if the developer desires
to proceed with the project, and application for site plan approval shall be
submitted for review in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   In addition to any information required to be submitted for a site
plan review, the developer shall include with the application for site plan
approval, sufficient information for determining whether the project conforms
with all applicable laws, codes, ordinances, and rules, and regulations
enforceable by the township.
   (C)   The application for site plan review shall also include a copy of the
proposed master deed, by-laws and any additional documentation to be recorded
with Register of Deeds, for review and approval by appropriate township
consultants.
   (D)   The master deed shall be reviewed by the Township Board, with the
advice of the township consultants as deemed appropriate by the Township Board,
with respect to all matters of drainage, retention, wetland, and other natural
areas and common areas, and maintenance of landscaping in common areas, in the
project.
   (E)   If the site plan conforms in all respects, site plan approval shall be
granted by the Township Planning Commission. If the site plan fails to conform,
the Township Planning Commission shall either deny the application, or approve
the application with conditions with a time limit for compliance with the
conditions and resubmission, as deemed appropriate by the Township Board.
   (F)   Site plan approval shall be effective for a period of 1 year. Approval
may be extended if applied for by the developer within the effective period and
approved by the Township Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.12)
§ 153.242 FINAL ENGINEERING APPROVAL.
   (A)   Following the site plan approval, a building permit for construction
may be issued at a time as the final engineering plans have been approved.
   (B)   The Township Planning Commission may determine that certain
improvements need not be completed prior to issuance of the building permit.
   (C)   However, all improvements shall be completed prior to issuing a
certificate of occupancy. The developer may be required to deposit cash,
provide a letter of credit or establish an escrow fund to ensure the completion
of the improvements.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.13)
§ 153.243 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS.
   (A)   Each building site shall front on and have direct access to either a
public road, or a private road. A private road shall be designed pursuant to
the Private Road Ordinance of the township.
   (B)   There shall be compliance with all requirements of §
153.200, and other provisions of this subchapter and other applicable
ordinances, with the understanding that reference to LOT in the regulations
shall mean and refer to BUILDING SITE as defined in this chapter, and reference
to BUILDING (meaning principal building) or STRUCTURE (meaning principal
structure) shall mean and refer to BUILDING ENVELOP as defined under this
chapter.
   (C)   In the review of preliminary plans, site plans and engineering plans,
it is recognized that it may not be feasible to precisely apply traditional
definitions and measures applicable to the development proposed.
   (D)   However, the review of plans submitted under this subchapter shall be
accomplished with the objective and intent of achieving the same results, aside
from procedure requirements, as if the improvements were being proposed
pursuant to the Subdivision Control Act.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of building permits for units, the developer
shall demonstrate approval by county and state entities having jurisdiction
with regard to any aspect of the development, including, without limitation,
roads, water supply, and sewage disposal.
   (F)   Prior to issuance of certificates of occupancy, the developer shall
provide evidence of approval(s) required by any other governmental entities
having jurisdiction over any aspect of the condominium project, and the
administrative official shall determine that all improvements have been
substantial completed in accordance with approved plans.
   (G)   With respect to each building envelope, within 60 days following final
inspection of the improvement, the developer shall submit to the administrative
official and "as-built" survey, including dimensions between each improvement
and the boundaries of the building site, and distance of each improvement from
any wetland, floodplain and/or floodway.
   (H)   The corners of each building site shall be staked in the customary
manner in connection with the survey performed from the project by a registered
land survey or professional engineer.
   (I)   The fees for all reviews shall be established by ordinance and/or
resolution adopted by the Township Board.
   (J)   Any proposed amendment of master deed which would involve any subject
matter reviewed or reviewable under this subchapter shall be reviewed an
approved by the Township Planning prior to recordation.
      (1)   Elements. The condominium project shall provide for the dedication
of easements to the appropriate public agencies for the purposes of
construction, operation, maintenance, inspection, repair, alteration,
replacement, and/or removal of pipelines, conduits, mains, and other
installations of a similar character for the purpose of providing public
utility services, including conveyance of sewage, potable water, and storm
water runoff across, through and under the property subject to the easement,
and excavation and refilling of ditches and trenches necessary for the location
of installations.
      (2)   Monuments required. All condominium developments, which consist in
whole or in part of condominium units which are building sites, mobile home
sites, or recreational sites, shall be marked with monuments as provided:
         (a)   All monuments used shall be made of solid iron or steel bars at
least 1/2 inch in diameter and 36 inches long and completely encased in
concrete at least 4 inches in diameter;
         (b)   Monuments shall be located in the ground at all angles in the
boundaries of the condominium development; at the intersection lines of streets
and at the intersection of the lines of streets with the boundaries of the
condominium development and at the intersection of alleys with the boundaries
of the condominium development; at all points of curvature, points of tangency,
points of compound curvature, points of reverse curvature and angle points in
the side lines of streets and alleys and at all angles of an intermediate
traverse line. It is not intended or required that monuments be placed within
the traveled portion of a street to mark angles in the boundary of the
condominium development if the angle points can be readily re-established by
reference to monuments along the sidelines of the streets;
         (c)   If the required location of a monument is an inaccessible place,
or where the locating of a monument would be clearly impracticable, it is
sufficient to place a reference monument nearby and the precise location
thereof be clearly indicated on the plans and referenced to the true point;
         (d)   If a point required to be monumented is on a bedrock
outcropping, a steel rod, at least 1/2 inch in diameter shall be drilled and
grouted into solid rock to a depth of at least 8 inches;
         (e)   All required monuments shall be placed flush with the ground
where practicable;
         (f)   All units corners and the intersection of all limited common
elements and all common elements shall be monumented in the field by iron or
steel bars or iron pipes at least 18 inches long and 1/2 inch in diameter, or
other approved markers; and
         (g)   The Township Planning Commission may waive the placing of any of
the required monuments and markers for a reasonable time, not to exceed 1 year,
on the condition that the proprietor deposits with the Township Clerk cash or a
certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit to Charter Township of
Montrose, whichever the proprietor selects in an amount to be established by
the Township Board, by resolution. The cash, certified check, or irrevocable
bank letter of credit shall be returned to the proprietor upon receipt of a
certificate by a surveyor that the monuments and markers have been placed as
required within the time specified.
   (K)   (1)   Master deed, restrictive covenants, and "as built" survey to be
furnished. The condominium development developer or proprietor shall furnish
the administrative official with the following: 1 copy of the recorded master
deed, 1 copy of all restrictive covenants, and 2 copies of an "as built"
survey.
      (2)   Review. The "as built" survey shall be reviewed by the
administrative official for compliance with township ordinances. Fees for this
review shall be established by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 17.14)
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRACTION
ACTIVITIES, PONDS AND PRIVATE ROADS
§ 153.255 INTENT.
   The regulations set forth in this section are designed to provide for the
regulation of extraction activities, ponds, and private roads, and to specify
the conditions and circumstances under which a use may be developed in order to
protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the
community, preserve ecologically important features, and to prohibit
development which, unregulated, may have an adverse impact upon the safety,
health, and welfare of the township.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.01; Am. Ord. 13-203, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 153.256 EXCAVATION AND EXTRACTION; SAND, SOIL, GRAVEL AND MINERAL REMOVAL.
   (A)   Nonferrous metallic mineral mining is not regulated under this
section. Excavation and extraction of nonferrous metallic minerals shall be
regulated as provided the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.63201 et seq.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Sand, soil, gravel and mineral mining or extraction may be
permitted as a special land use within any zoning district subject to the
approval of the Township Planning Commission upon a finding that the proposed
use meets the requirements of this chapter and federal and state regulations.
      (2)   The purpose of these requirements is to provide for the use of
lands which have significant gravel and/or sand deposits and which, if mined
for the deposits or filled, would not constitute a hazard to the public health,
safety, and welfare.
      (3)   The construction of a private pond as part of a landscaping,
aesthetic, or recreation improvement shall comply with §
153.258.
      (4)   The regulations are intended to result in: mining, excavation, and
soil removal operations that will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare; and operations which will be conducive to and result in
the reclamation of the land so that it will be suitable for other purposes.
These requirements shall not apply to:
         (a)   The excavation and earth fill for on-site building construction
purposes pursuant to a duly issued building permit; or
         (b)   Where the moving, grading or leveling of materials is carried on
by the landowner for the immediate use or development of the same or adjacent
parcel of land.
   (C)   Review procedures.
      (1)   An application for the approval of a sand, soil or gravel removal
mining or extracting special land use permit shall be made to the Township
Clerk and/or his/her designee by an owner of an interest in the land on which
the use is to be located and shall be accompanied by the necessary fees,
financial guarantees and documents as set forth below and as provided for by §§
153.230 through
153.242, as applicable.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan containing the
following information:
         (a)   Name of the owner, or owners, of land from which removal is to
be made;
         (b)   Name and address of the applicant(s) making a request for the
permit;
         (c)   Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation who or
which will be conducting the actual removal operation;
         (d)   Location, size, and legal description of the total land area
proposed for the use;
         (e)   Location of the processing plant (if any);
         (f)   Type of materials or resources to be removed or to be brought to
the site;
         (g)   Proposed method of removal or filling, general haul route, and
whether blasting or other use of explosives will be required;
         (h)   General description of equipment to be used;
         (i)   Any buildings, structures, sheds or trailers which are to be
constructed or brought onto the site;
         (j)   An estimate of time to complete total operations based upon the
estimated volume of material to be extracted and average annual extraction
rates. The mining or extracting special land use permit shall expire on that
date;
         (k)   The total area (in acres) proposed to be excavated, mined or
removed in the first year of operation, and in subsequent years;
         (l)   Documentation demonstrating that the extractive activities will
not produce serious consequences affecting the natural topography, drainage
patterns, water bodies, floodplains, street conditions, nearby property values
or use of adjacent land. The planning commission may require separate
environmental, engineering, traffic impact or marketing studies supporting the
need for and minimal consequences of such extraction; and
         (m)   A reuse plan, drawn to a scale of 1 inch equals 50 feet placed
on a standard sheet and containing the following information:
            1.   A description of the land use activities proposed to be
located on the site upon completion of mining, extraction, and landfill
operations;
            2.   A description of the zoning district classification required
for use of the site for the uses intended;
            3.   A description and location of the street, drainage on-site and
downstream, water and sanitary sewer facilities required to serve the uses
intended.
      (3)   The Township Planning Commission may submit the engineering,
designs and site plans to the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, County
Drain, Health or Road Commissions or other state or federal agencies to
determine that the designs meet all applicable requirements.
      (4)   If county, state or federal permits are necessary, the approvals
must be submitted to the township by the applicant prior to the granting of a
permit. If no county, state or federal permit is necessary, the applicant must
so verify.
      (5)   The applicant must submit ten copies of a site plan containing all
of the information required in §
153.232 above.
      (6)   The applicant must submit a completed application on an approved
form provided by the Township Clerk and/or his/her designee.
      (7)   An application fee, which shall be non-refundable, and be
established by resolution of the Township Board, shall accompany the
application and site plan.
      (8)   The Township Planning Commission shall require payment of a review
fee established by the Township Board to cover the cost of a review by a
professional engineer, architect or planner of submitted plans. The applicant
will be required to pay 100% of all review costs incurred by the Township and
will be provided copies of bills upon request. Any portion of the review fee
not expended shall be returned to the developer.
      (9)   The applicant shall obtain an annual zoning compliance permit to
allow excavation and extractive activities. The annual permit may be renewed
upon the finding by the Zoning Administrator that the applicant has complied
with the requirements by the Planning Commission.
      (10)   For any excavation and extraction activity currently operating
lawfully under a temporary use approved by the Planning Commission as of the
date of the adoption of this section, the following minimal requirements shall
be submitted to the Township's Planning Commission 30 days prior to the
expiration date of said temporary use approval for its review and consideration
in order to allow the continuation of the excavation and extraction activities
under the provision of this section.
         (a)   An application which shall be accompanied by the required fees
as established by the Township Board;
         (b)   A revised or updated site plan, containing the location and size
of the areas that have been reclaimed and the areas to be excavated, which
shall be prepared by a professional engineer, architect, planner or surveyor;
         (c)   An estimate of time to complete the remaining excavation and
extraction operations, including all reclamation based upon the estimated
volume of material to be extracted and the average annual extraction rates. The
renewal of the excavation and extraction activity use permit shall not be
extended by the Planning Commission beyond that date;
         (d)   A revised reuse plan, if changed, containing the information as
required in division (C)(2)(m) above.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.02; Am. Ord. 13-203, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 153.257 SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Excavation site requirements.
      (1)   All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance with all
applicable State of Michigan statutes. If any of the requirements of this
division are less than those in applicable state statutes, the state
requirements shall prevail.
      (2)   No cut or excavation shall be made closer than 300 feet to any
property line or street right-of-way line.
      (3)   If the circumstances of the site indicate that the setback
requirement above would not be adequate to protect abutting property, the
Township Planning Commission shall require the greater distance to adjacent
property.
      (4)   Where it is determined by the Planning Commission to be a potential
nuisance to adjoining property owners, all uses shall be enclosed by a fence 6
feet or more in height for the entire periphery of the property or portion
thereof. Fences shall be adequate to deter trespassing and shall be placed no
closer than 50 feet to the top or bottom of any slope.
      (5)   No building shall be erected on the premises except as may be
permitted in the general zoning ordinance or except as temporary shelter for
machinery and field office subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Site barriers or fences shall be provided along all boundaries of
the site which lack natural screening conditions through existing contours,
tree, or shrub growth or distance from the roads. Barriers shall consist of 1
of the following:
         (a)   Earth berms constructed to a height of 6 feet above the mean
elevation of the centerline of the adjacent public highway or 6 feet above the
general level of terrain along interior property lines, as the case may be. The
berms shall have slopes that are not in excess of 1 foot vertical to 4 feet
horizontal, and shall be planted with grass, trees, or shrubs; or
         (b)   Planting of evergreen trees or shrubbery in rows parallel to the
boundaries of the property, not less than 4 feet in height at the time of
planting and which grow to not less than 6 feet in height at maturity and
sufficiently spaced to provide effective site barriers when 6 feet in height.
         (c)   Earth berms shall be constructed so that they do not alter the
natural surface water drainage of the adjoining properties.
   (B)   Construction and operation requirements.
      (1)    The Planning Commission shall establish routes for truck movement
internally as well as to and from the site in order to minimize the wear on
public streets and to prevent hazards and damage to properties in the
community. Routes shall not be directed through residential areas, unless the
applicant can demonstrate to the Planning Commission that such a route would
not adversely impact the adjacent residential parcels. That portion of access
roads within the area of operation shall be provided with a dustless surface.
      (2)   No internal roadway shall be closer than 200 feet from any off-site
residential dwelling unit.
      (3)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat and
orderly condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any
individual, or to the community in general.
      (4)   Both permanent and/or temporary processing plants and their
accessory structures shall not be located closer than 300 feet from the
interior property lines and adjoining public rights-of-way and shall, where
practicable, be located at a lower elevation than the surrounding terrain to
lessen visual and noise impact.
      (5)   All equipment and facilities used in the processing or transporting
of sand, gravel or stone shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a
manner so as to eliminate, insofar as practicable, noises, vibrations, or dust
which are injurious or unduly annoying.
      (6)   No stockpiling shall take place closer than 300 feet from any
property line or street right-of-way line. Stock piles of stripped topsoil
shall be seeded with grass or similar plant materials in order to prevent
erosion onto other properties.
      (7)   On site roads, driveways, parking lots and loading and unloading
areas shall be paved or chemically treated so as to limit the nuisance caused
by windborne dust on adjoining lots and public roads.
      (8)   Operators shall be held responsible for all spillage of material,
dirt, rock, mud and any other debris carried onto the roads by trucks or other
equipment.
      (9)   Proper measures, as determined by the Planning Commission, shall be
taken to minimize the nuisance of noise and flying dust or rock. Such measures
may include, when considered necessary, limitations upon the practice of
stockpiling excavated materials upon the site.
      (10)   An excavation shall not change the surface drainage so as to
adversely impact neighboring properties or uses.
      (11)   Any pond banks shall have a maximum slope of 4 feet horizontal to
1 foot vertical which extends below the projected low water surface elevation
to a depth of at least 6 feet.
      (12)   If pumping or draining of water from an excavation and extraction
operation is anticipated, the applicant shall provide adequate data and
research to indicate:
         (a)   That water wells and the water supply of surrounding properties
are not adversely affected;
         (b)   That drainage of water will not adversely affect nor create
damage to adjacent or downstream properties; and
         (c)   That the drainage ways are adequate in design and construction
to handle the excess water from this operation without damage to any other
properties.
      (13)   Any excavated material not removed from the site shall be graded
to a continuous slope which does not exceed 4 feet horizontal to 1 foot
vertical and arranged to prevent runoff from impacting adjacent properties.
Said fill shall blend visually with the surrounding landscape.
      (14)   By the anniversary of the initial permit issuance each year, the
completed portion of an excavation and any disturbed area around it shall be
graded and seeded. This will minimize any soil erosion or damage to surrounding
properties that may occur from flooding.
      (15)   Such operations shall be permitted only between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday. Operations shall not be permitted
on Sunday or on holidays being New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day,
Labor Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas.
      (16)   Within 12 months of the completion of excavation and removal
operations or either of them, the excavated area shall be graded so that no
gradients-disturbed earth shall be steeper than a slope of 4 feet horizontal to
1 foot vertical. A layer of arable topsoil shall be spread over the excavated
area, except exposed rock surfaces or areas lying below natural water level, to
a minimum depth of 4 inches in accordance with the approved contour plan. The
area shall be seeded and blended with the general surrounding ground so as to
appear natural.
      (17)   Finished slopes of the excavation shall not exceed a ratio of 4
feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical.
      (18)   Where excavation operations result in a body of water, the owner
or operator shall place appropriate "Keep Out Danger" signs around said
premises not more than 150 feet apart.
      (19)   Where excavation operations result in a body of water, the owner
or operator shall provide a rescue station within 25 feet where the water depth
exceeds 3 feet. All rescue stations shall have an approved US Coast Guard life
ring with 100 feet of rope and a 10-foot pole located on a post extending 4
foot above grade. In the event that the width of any water surface shall exceed
100 feet, an additional rescue station shall be provided on the opposite side
of said body of water.
      (20)   The Planning Commission may require a security deposit from the
applicant to ensure compliance with the requirements, specifications and
conditions imposed by this subchapter, as well as guarantee restoration of the
site. Such deposit shall not be released until performance is certified by the
township's Zoning Administrator.
      (21)   Only equipment owned or leased by the operator of the mining
operation and used in the direct operation of the excavation and extraction
activities shall be stored overnight or for longer periods anywhere on the
premises. Storage of any other equipment on the premises shall be prohibited.
All equipment and machinery shall be located at least 300 feet from any
property or street right-of-way line. The Planning Commission may require
additional buffering of said equipment and machinery from adjoining residential
use property such as fencing, earth berms, or other landscaping materials.
      (22)   Reclamation and rehabilitation of mining areas in accordance with
the Reuse Plan shall be accomplished as soon as practicable following the
mining or excavation of an area.
         (a)   Where possible, the rehabilitation and reclamation shall be
accomplished concurrently with the mining or excavation operations;
         (b)   The Planning Commission may require a performance bond to assure
that the Reuse Plan is implemented;
         (c)   Substantial completion of reclamation or rehabilitation shall be
effected within 2 years after termination of mining or excavation activity.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.03; Am. Ord. 13-203, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 153.258 PONDS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this section are designed to provide for
the regulation of ponds and to specify the conditions and circumstances under
which such ponds may be developed to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the community, preserve ecological features, and to
prohibit development which, unregulated, may have an adverse effect upon the
existing aesthetic character of the township.
   (B)   A pond is defined as a water impoundment made by excavating a pit, for
the purpose of providing water for livestock, fish, and wildlife, recreation,
fire control, crop and orchard spraying, and related uses.
   (C)   The construction or the excavation of a pond as defined above shall be
treated as a temporary use permit, subject to the provisions of §
153.354 of this chapter.
   (D)   Excavations undertaken primarily for the commercial soil, gravel,
sand, or other mineral removal and not primarily and or initially for the
purpose set forth in this section shall not be considered as "ponds" but
instead shall be considered as "extraction sites" and are subject to the
applicable provisions of §§
153.255 through
153.257 of this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or
partnership, or other organization or entity to excavate or construct a pond
within the township without first securing a construction and or zoning
compliance permit from the Building and or Zoning Official. Except that plastic
formed ponds, liner ponds or other similar type ponds used primary as part of a
front, side or rear yard area landscaping plan, being less than 400 square feet
in total area and not greater than 4 feet in depth are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (F)   A construction and or zoning compliance permit for a pond is valid for
a period of 90 days.
   (G)   Evidence shall be presented at the time of application that the
Genesee County Drain Commission and or the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality have granted the necessary permits and/or approvals to the applicant
for the construction of the pond or have released the applicant from any
required obligation thereto.
   (H)   A temporary use permit application and site plan for pond excavations
shall be submitted to the Building and or Zoning Official on an application
provided by the township. The Building and or Zoning Official shall review the
application, required site drawing, and other required information and shall
deny and return the application and drawing to the applicant in the event that
any of the following items have not been included for review by the Planning
Commission. Said denial shall be in writing detailing the reasons for denial.
      (1)   A drawing of the land on which the proposed pond shall be
constructed, which includes the placement of all residential structures and
outbuildings, the location of any existing wells, the location of all septic
systems and leech fields, and the location of any county drain, lake, river,
creek, stream, wetland, or other natural or artificial water body.
      (2)   The drawing shall include the placement of the proposed pond on the
premises, the proposed depth of the pond in detailed increments of 10 feet and
the height of all embankments.
      (3)   The measured distances from all property lines, residences,
outbuildings and other improvements located on the property.
      (4)   The measured distances from any existing ponds on or off site,
within 300 feet of the proposed pond.
      (5)   The proposed location(s) of the excavated materials which are to be
redistributed on-site.
      (6)   The proposed location(s) for the placement of safety equipment.
      (7)   A written statement providing evidence that water can be
continuously maintained in the pond once it is constructed. The statement shall
also include the timing and stages of the development, and whether the
excavation will be a dry dig or wet dig.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.04; Am. Ord. 12-197, passed 6-19-2012)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.259 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all ponds within the Charter
Township of Montrose.
   (A)   A pond shall not be constructed on a lot or parcel of land which is
less than 2 acres in size.
   (B)   A pond may occupy up to a maximum of 20% of the lot or property upon
which it is placed.
   (C)   Slopes of the excavated pond shall not exceed a ratio of 4 feet
horizontal to 1 foot vertical, to a maximum depth below water of 6 feet. The
Planning Commission may wave the 4 to 1 slope ratio when the property or pond
is enclosed by a minimum 4-foot high fence. All gates shall be self-closing and
have a self-latching device.
   (D)   Ponds must be located a minimum of 50 feet from all property lines,
easements, street, roads, and right-of-ways. The Planning Commission may wave
the required 50-foot setback requirement when the property or pond is enclosed
by a minimum 4-foot high fence. All gates shall be self-closing and have a
self-latching device.
   (E)   There shall be a distance of not less than 25 feet between the outside
edge of the pond and any structures.
   (F)   There shall be a distance of not less than 200 feet from any overhead
transmission lines, unless written approval is obtained from the company owning
said overhead transmission lines.
   (G)   All ponds shall be of an excavated type as defined by the Soil
Conservation Service (SCS) engineering standard and all ponds shall be
constructed to the SCS standards. (See circular 378 of the Soil Conservation
Service). Copies are available at the Township Office or the local office of
the United States Soil Conservation Service.
   (H)   All ponds shall be fully completed, including land rehabilitation,
within 90 days from the issuance of a zoning compliance permit by the Building
and or Zoning Official. In addition to the established permit fee as
established by the Township Board, a cash bond in the amount of $1,000 shall be
paid at the time the permit is issued by the owner and or contractor and will
be returned once a final inspection is completed by the Building and or Zoning
Official. Upon receiving a written request by the property owner explaining the
reason(s) that an extension is being requested, the Building and or Zoning
Official may grant a 30-day extension to fully complete the excavation of the
pond. Extensions greater than 30 days must be reviewed and approved by the
township's Planning Commission.
   (I)   All areas disturbed during construction shall be seeded with grass and
maintained in good condition to prevent erosion.
   (J)   All excavated material remaining on-site shall be leveled over the
area around the pond or the property. Excavated earth material created by
construction of a pond shall be used to the maximum extent feasible for on-site
purposes. However, excess excavated earth materials not feasible for use on-
site may be removed and taken off-site from the property in compliance with an
approved site plan by the Planning Commission with the following requirements:
      (1)   If the applicant proposes to remove any excess excavated earth from
the property he shall include with the application a written statement of the
cubic yards to be removed.
      (2)   The applicant shall be limited to this stated volume and any excess
of this stated volume to be removed must be approved as an amendment to the
site plan by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   This statement or any amendments thereto shall either be shown on a
revised site plan or physically attached to the plan for purposes of review and
approval or denial.
      (4)   All excess earth material shall be removed on completion of the
pond or within 30 days.
      (5)   Failure to comply with these requirements shall result in the
forfeiture of the cash bond.
   (K)   Water shall be maintained in all pond excavations.
   (L)   Water elevations in the pond area shall not cause flooding or impair
the removal of water from property adjacent property owners unless appropriate
easements are obtained.
   (M)   The finished topography of the area surrounding the pond will be one
the blends with that surrounding terrain. Surface drainage from adjacent
properties shall not be impeded nor shall off-site drainage be increased,
unless appropriate easements are obtained.
   (N)   Conditions of the site must allow the pond to be protected against the
contamination from barnyards, septic systems or other sources which would
render the water unfit for its intended purpose.
   (O)   To prevent adverse effects of drainage to adjoining properties, a
drainage system shall be installed to accommodate overflows and surface
drainage to a suitable outlet or drainage ditch.
   (P)   Ponds shall be maintained so as to assure no unsanitary conditions or
obnoxious odors will be created by the growth of biological organisms or
otherwise.
   (Q)   The cleaning and maintenance of any pond in existence as of the date
of this section becomes effective shall not be considered a new pond
application unless the pond owner also intends to enlarge said pond. However a
pond cleaning permit (zoning compliance permit) must be obtained from the
Building and or Zoning Official prior to the commencement of any pond cleaning
project. Cleaning shall not result in a pond of greater size or depth than that
permitted in the original permit application.
   (R)   A rescue station shall be located within 25 feet of all ponds having
water depths exceeding 3 feet. All rescue stations shall have an approved U.S.
Coast Guard life ring with 100 feet of rope and a 10 foot pole on a wooden post
extending 4 feet above grade on which a deep water sign shall be posted.
   (S)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall result
in the forfeiture of the cash bond.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.05; Am. Ord. 128, passed 2-12-2001; Am. Ord.
12-197, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 153.260 PRIVATE ROAD.
   (A)   Private roads permitted. Private roads are permitted provided they
conform to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Requirements. The following shall be required by the township in
conjunction with a site plan:
      (1)   Parcel number and the name of the owner for all properties having
legal interest in the private road;
      (2)   Plans designed by a registered engineer showing location, dimension
and design of the private road. The plan shall identify existing and proposed
elevation contours within the area to be disturbed or altered by construction
of the private road;
      (3)   Location of all public or private utilities located within the
private road right-of-way or easement, or within 20 feet including, but not
limited to: water, sewer, telephone, gas, electricity, and television cable;
      (4)   Location of any significant natural features, streams, drainage
ways, or wetlands, within 100 feet of the proposed private road right-of-way;
and
      (5)   Ownership documents and maintenance agreement for the private road.
   (C)   Maintenance agreement.
      (1)   An agreement shall specify how the costs for constructing the road
initially will be paid.
      (2)   If the maintenance agreement fails to so specify, the
administrative official may apportion the construction costs via a special
assessment to all benefitting property owners following a hearing at which each
of the affected property owners are notified by mail at least 10 days before
the hearing.
   (D)   Right-of-way width. All private roads shall have a minimum right-of-
way easement of at least 66 feet.
   (E)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall meet the design specifications of the
Genesee County Road Commission.
      (1)   Any cul-de-sac shall terminate at the property line except when
precluded by a natural barrier or when the cul-de-sac terminates at the last
available building envelope, lot or parcel within the development and that
building envelop, lot or parcel fronts upon the cul-de-sac.
      (2)   Frontage measurements along a cul-de-sac shall be measured at the
front setback line and at right angles to the lot depth.
      (3)   A cul-de-sac shall include a turn-around with a 45-foot radius; a
55-foot radius if a hammerhead or "T" turn is used.
   (F)   Limit on length. Private roads meeting the requirements of this
section shall not be longer than 2,500 feet.
   (G)   Minimum standards. Private roads shall be constructed to the following
minimum standards:
      (1)   Accessing up to 4 building units the road shall be at least 17 feet
wide gravel (6 feet MDOT Z2A) with ditches on a 66-foot right-of-way;
      (2)   Four to 8 building units: 20 foot gravel; and
      (3)   Eight or more building units; the road shall meet the design and
construction standards outlined by the most recent edition of the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Official (AASHTO) Manual.
   (H)   Emergencies. Street names shall be required to assist public emergency
services.
   (I)   Signs.
      (1)   All signs within the private road or access easement shall be
identified on the site plan and be in accordance with the Michigan Manual or
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, unless the Township Board approves another
type of design for consistency with the character of the development. Street
signs shall be provided at all intersection.
      (2)   These signs shall contrast in terms of color with public street
signs, and shall clearly indicate the road is private.
   (J)   Road construction application.
      (1)   Application for private road construction shall be made prior to
the meeting date for which the applicant requests consideration.
      (2)   Prior to approval by the Township Planning Commission, the
applicant shall prepare and provide 10 sets of a general development plan.
      (3)   The following additional information shall be submitted:
         (a)   Road maintenance agreement signed by applicant/owner(s) to be
recorded with the Township Clerk and Genesee County Register of Deeds providing
for:
            1.   A method of financing the construction and maintenance of the
road in order to keep the road up to properly engineered specifications and
free of snow or debris;
            2.   A workable method of assessing the costs of maintenance and
improvements to current and future users; and
            3.   A notice that if repairs and maintenance are not made, the
township may bring the road up to established county standards for public roads
and assess owners of parcels on the private road for the improvements, plus an
administrative fee in the amount of 25% of total costs.
         (b)   Road easement agreement signed by the applicant/owner(s) to be
recorded with the Township Clerk and Genesee County Register of Deeds providing
for:
            1.   Easements to the public for purposes of emergency and other
public vehicles and for whatever public utility services are necessary; and
            2.   A provision that the owners of the properties using the road
shall refrain from prohibiting, restricting, limiting, or in any manner
interfering with normal ingress and egress and use by any of the other owners.
Normal ingress and egress and use shall include use by family, guests,
invitees, vendors, tradepersons, delivery persons, and other bound to or
returning any of the properties and having a need to use the road.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.06)
§ 153.261 EXISTING NONCONFORMING PRIVATE ROADS AND ACCESS EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The township recognizes that there may exist private roads, service
roads, and access easements which were lawful prior to the adoption of this
chapter which are inconsistent with this section.
   (B)   The roads are declared by this section to be legal nonconforming roads
or easements and shall continue to have the status so long as the roads or
easements are maintained in a safe and physically sound condition as determined
by the administrative official.
   (C)   New construction may occur on existing lots which front along the road
or easement provided that the roads are reasonably capable of providing
sufficient access for the uses permitted in the zoning district.
   (D)   Any reconstruction, widening or extension of a nonconforming private
road or access easement shall be in conformity with this section.
   (E)   For purposes of determining whether a lot along a private road or
access easement qualifies as an "existing lot" as used in this section, at
least 1 of the following conditions must have existed at the time this chapter
was adopted:
      (1)   The lot consists of a "condominium unit" for which a master deed
had been recorded with Genesee County Register of Deeds in accordance with the
requirement of the Michigan Condominium Act and other applicable laws and
ordinances;
      (2)   The lot consists of a parcel that was described by metes and bounds
as recorded by a deed or as a land contract, and registered with the Genesee
County Register of Deeds; and/or
      (3)   The lot has been assigned a unique parcel number by the Genesee
County Register of Deeds and was individually assessed and taxed on that basis.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 18.07)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.275 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street parking facilities shall be constructed to the standards of
this subchapter.
   (B)   The minimum required number of parking spaces shall be maintained and
shall not be encroached upon.
      (1)   Area for parking space. For the purpose of this subchapter, 300
square feet of lot area shall be deemed a parking space for 1 vehicle,
including access aisle.
      (2)   Fractional requirement. When units or measurements determining
number of required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction up to, and including 1/2 may be disregarded and fractions over 1/
2 shall require 1 parking space.
      (3)   Location of parking space for 1 and 2-family dwellings. The off-
street parking facilities shall be located on the lot as the building they are
intended to serve and shall consist of a parking strip, parking apron, and/or
garage or carports.
      (4)   Location of parking space for other land uses. The off-street
parking facilities required for all other uses shall be located on the lot or
within 300 feet of the permitted uses requiring the off-street parking, the
distance to be measured along lines of public access to the property between
the nearest point of the parking facility to the building to be served.
      (5)   Seating capacity of bench type seating. As used in this subchapter
for parking requirements, seats shall mean that each 24 inches of seating
facilities shall be counted as 1 seat.
      (6)   Similar uses and requirements. In the case of a use not
specifically mentioned, the requirements for off-street parking facilities for
a use which is so mentioned, and which the use is similar as interpreted by the
Planning Commission, shall apply.
      (7)   Existing off-street parking at effective date of chapter. Off-
street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter, which serves an
existing building or use, shall not be reduced in size less than that required
under the terms of this chapter.
      (8)   Collective provisions. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to prevent collective provisions of off-street parking facilities for
2 or more buildings or uses, provided the facilities collectively shall not be
less than the sum of the requirements for the various individual uses computed
separately in accordance with §
153.277 below.
      (9)   Prohibited parking. Commercial highway trailers and trucks with a
rated capacity exceeding 1 ton, excepting vehicles making deliveries or
pickups, shall not be parked or stored on any land in a residential district.
         (a)   The following vehicles shall not be parked or stored on any land
in a residential zoned district except under the conditions listed in division
(9)(b) below:
            1.   All commercial highway trailers;
            2.   All trucks or other vehicles used for commercial or business
purposes, with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 14,000 pounds.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   Commercial vehicles making deliveries or pickups;
            2.   One vehicle not exceeding a gross vehicle weight of 19,000
pounds, and be less than 3 axles, which is used by the property owner or
occupant in the course of employment (as in either a licensed home occupation
permit issued by the township or the vehicle's use is a requirement of
employment of an off-site business) and upon approval of the Zoning
Administrator/Official based on the following considerations:
               a.   Vehicle is parked or stored in an existing designated
driveway outside of the required front, side or rear yard setback areas;
               b.   Any other requirement deemed necessary by the Zoning
Official.
         (c)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Official may
appeal such decision to the township's Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.01; Am. Ord. 17-225, passed 8-15-2017; Am.
Ord. 21-006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021)
§ 153.276 PARKING UNITS OF MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Where floor area is the unit for determining the required number of
off-street parking and loading spaces, the unit shall mean the gross floor area
(GFA), unless otherwise noted.
   (B)   (1)   Where the floor area measurement is specified as gross leasable
floor area (GLA), parking requirements shall apply to all internal building
areas excluding the floor area used for incidental service, storage, mechanical
equipment rooms, heating/cooling systems and similar uses, and other areas not
intended for use by the general public.
      (2)   Where these areas are not yet defined, leasable floor area shall be
considered to be 85% of the gross floor area.
   (C)   In calculating bench seating for places of assembly, each 24 inches of
benches, pews or other like seating, shall be counted as 1 seat.
   (D)   Where the number of spaces required is based on the number of
employees, calculations shall be based upon the maximum number of employees
likely to be on the premises during the peak shift. When units of measurements
determining the number of required parking or loading spaces result in a
fractional space, any fraction shall be counted as 1 additional space.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.02)
§ 153.277 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The amount of required off-street parking space for new uses and additions
to buildings shall be determined in accordance with the following table.
Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per Unit of Measure
Use                                     Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per
                                        Unit of Measure
Residential
Residential 1-family or 2-family unit   2 for each dwelling unit
Residential multiple-family             2 for each dwelling unit
                                        1 for each 2 units, and 1 for each
Housing for the elderly                 employee; should units revert to
                                        general occupancy, then 2 spaces per
                                        unit shall be provided
                                        2 for each mobile home site and 1 for
Trailer park and mobile home park       each employee of the trailer or mobile
                                        home court
Institutional
Churches and places of worship          1 for each 3 seats or 6 linear feet of
                                        pews in the main unit of worship
Hospitals                               1 for each 1 bed
Homes for the aged and convalescent     1 for each 2 beds
homes
                                        1 for each 1 teacher, employee, or
Elementary and junior high schools      administrator, in addition to the
                                        requirements of the auditorium
                                        1 for each 1 teacher and administrator
Senior high schools                     and 1 for each 10 students, in addition
                                        to the requirements of the auditorium
                                        1 for each 3 persons allowed within the
Private clubs or lodge halls            maximum occupancy load as established
                                        by the township, county or state fire
                                        and health codes
Private golf clubs, swimming pool       1 for each 2 member families or
clubs, tennis clubs, or other similar   individuals
uses
Golf courses open to the general public 6 for each 1 golf hole and 1 for each 1
                                        employee
Stadium, sports arena or similar place  1 for each 3 seats or 6 feet of benches
of outdoor assembly
Theaters and auditoriums                1 for each 4 seats, plus 1 for each 2
                                        employees.
Use                                     Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per
                                        Unit of Measure
Business and Commercial
Auto wash; self-service                 4 spaces for each establishment, plus 4
                                        waiting spaces for each washing stall
                                        4 spaces for each establishment plus 20
                                        waiting spaces for each washing stall
                                        or line; a properly drained drying lane
                                        50 feet long shall also be provided at
Auto wash; other than self-service      the exit of each washing stall or line
                                        in order to prevent undue amount of
                                        water from collecting on the public
                                        street and, thereby, creating a traffic
                                        hazard
                                        3 spaces for each of the first 2 beauty
Beauty parlor or barber shop            or barber chairs, and 1-1/2 spaces for
                                        each additional chair
Bowling alleys                          6 for each 1 bowling alley
Dance halls, pool or billiard parlors,  1 for each 2 persons allowed within the
roller or ice skating rinks, indoor     maximum occupancy load, as established
tennis facilities, exhibition halls,    by the township, county, or state fire,
and assembly halls without fixed seats  building or health codes
Dry cleaners                            1 parking space for each 2 employees,
                                        with a minimum of 3 spaces
                                        1 for each 100 square feet of floor
Establishments for sale of beverage,    area or 1 for each 2 persons allowed
food, and refreshments consumption      within maximum occupancy, whichever is
                                        greater
                                        1 space for each 2 employees, plus 1
                                        parking space for each 2 seats intended
Fast-food and drive-in restaurants      for patrons within the restaurant
                                        building, and 1 space for each 20
                                        square feet of building floor area
                                        available in the order-waiting area
Furniture and appliance, household      1 for each 800 square feet of useable
equipment, repair shops, showroom of    floor area (for that floor area used in
plumber, decorator, electrician, or     processing 1 additional space shall be
similar trade, shoe repair, and other   provided for each 2 persons employed
similar uses                            therein)
                                        2 for each lubrication stall, rack or
Automobile service stations             pit; and 1 for each gasoline pump or 1
                                        for each 450 square feet of useable
                                        floor area
Laundromats and coin-operated dry       1 for each 2 washing machines
cleaners
Miniature or "par-3" golf courses       3 for each 1 hole, plus 1 for each 1
                                        employee
Mortuary establishments                 1 for each 50 square feet of useable
                                        floor space
                                        1 for each 1 occupancy unit, plus 1 for
Motel, hotel, or other commercial       each 1 employee, plus extra spaces for
lodging establishments                  dining rooms, ballrooms, or meeting
                                        rooms
Motor vehicle sales and service         1 for each 200 square feet of useable
establishments                          floor space of sales room and 1 auto
                                        service stall in the service room
Open air businesses                     1 for each 500 square feet of lot area
                                        for retail sales, uses, and services
Retail stores, except as otherwise      1 for each 150 square feet of useable
specified herein                        floor space
Specialty shops                         1 for each 200 square feet of floor
                                        space
Use                                     Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per
                                        Unit of Measure
Offices
                                        1 for each 50 square feet of publicly-
Banks and post offices                  used gross floor space, plus 1 space
                                        for each 2 employees
Business offices or administrative      1 for each 200 square feet of floor
offices except as indicated below       space
Clinics; medical, dental, veterinary    1 space for each employee, plus 1 space
                                        for each 150 square feet of floor space
                                        1 for each 100 square feet of floor
Professional offices of doctors,        area, or 1 for each 25 square feet in
dentists, or similar professions        waiting rooms, and 1 for each examining
                                        room, dental chair or similar use area,
                                        whichever is greater
Industrial
                                        5, plus 1 for every 1-1/2 employees in
                                        the largest working shift, or 1 for
                                        every 500 square feet of floor space,
Industrial, wholesale                   whichever is determined to be the
                                        greater; space on site shall also be
                                        provided for all construction workers
                                        during periods of plant construction
Self storage units                      Un-obstructing parking area equal to 1
                                        space for every 10 door openings
 
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.03)
§ 153.278 BARRIER FREE PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each parking lot that services a building entrance, except single and
2-family residential or temporary structures, shall have a number of level
parking spaces for the physically handicapped as set forth in the following
table, and identified by signs as reserved for physically handicapped persons.
Total Spaces in Parking Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Up to 25                    1
26 to 50                    2
51 to 75                    3
76 to 100                   4
101 to 150                  5
151 to 200                  6
201 to 300                  8
301 to 400                  12
Over 400                    12+ (2 for every 250 or fraction thereof over 400)
 
   (B)   Parking spaces for the physically handicapped shall be a minimum of 12
feet wide and must meet all other applicable requirements of the American
Disability Act.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.04)
§ 153.279 PARKING SPACE LAYOUT, STANDARDS, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Wherever the off-street parking requirements in §
153.277 above require the building of an off-street parking facility, the off-
street parking lots shall be laid out, constructed and maintained in accordance
with the following standards and regulations:
   (A)   The construction of any parking lot shall be in accordance with the
requirements and provisions of this chapter and the construction shall be
completed and approved by the administrative official before actual use of the
property as a parking lot commences;
   (B)   (1)   All the parking lots shall be hard-surfaced with asphalt or
concrete, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of surface water,
which might accumulate within or upon the area.
      (2)   No surface water from the parking area shall be permitted to drain
onto adjoining property, except through public drain;
   (C)   (1)   All illumination for or on the parking lots shall be deflected
away from adjacent residential areas and public roads and highways, and shall
be installed in a manner so as to allow the reduction of the amount of light in
other than normal parking hours each day.
      (2)   The source of illumination in all parking lots abutting a
residential area shall not be more than 13 feet above the parking lot surface;
   (D)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided for vehicles;
   (E)   Wheel chocks or curbing shall be provided, so located as to prevent
any vehicle from projecting over the lot line;
   (F)   Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy a portion of the
required front yard setback area provided that there shall be maintained a
minimum unobstructed and landscaped setback of 10 feet between the nearest
point of the off-street parking area, exclusive of access driveway, and the
nearest edge of the proposed right-of-way line;
   (G)   Off-street parking shall be permitted in a required side or rear yard
setback area provided that there shall be maintained a landscaping area
complying with §§
153.315 through
153.322 below, between the nearest point of the off-street parking area and the
side or rear lot line, when the property line abuts any residential district;
and
   (H)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accordance with the following minimum requirements.
 
                                                    Total Width  Total Width
Parking       Maneuvering Parking     Parking Space of 1 Tier of of 2 Tiers of
Pattern       Lane Width  Space Width Length        Spaces Plus  Spaces Plus
                                                    Maneuvering  Maneuvering
                                                    Lane         Lane
0° (parallel 12 feet     8 feet      22 feet       20 feet      28 feet
parking)
30° to 53°  13 feet     9 feet      19 feet       33 feet      53 feet
54° to 74°  18 feet     9 feet      19 feet       39 feet      60 feet
75° to 90°  24 feet     9 feet      19 feet       43 feet      60 feet
 
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.05; Am. Ord 148, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 153.280 OFF-STREET WAITING AREA FOR DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.
   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof,
erected and occupied for the purpose of serving customers in their automobiles
by means of a service window or similar arrangement where the automobile engine
is not turned off, there shall be provided 3 off-street waiting spaces for each
service window if other parking is provided and 10 spaces if no other parking
is provided. An off-street waiting space is defined as an area 10 feet wide by
24 feet long, shall not include the use of any public space, street, alley, or
sidewalk, and shall be located entirely within the Commercial Zoning District.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.06)
§ 153.281 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof,
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for standing,
loading, and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of
dedicated rights-of-way.
   (B)   The space shall be provided as follows.
 
                          Total Floor Area of the Off-Street Loading Space
                          Building                Requirements
                          2,000 to 10,000 square  1 usable loading space; 10
Office use                feet                    feet by 25 feet
                          10,001 to 50,000 square 1 usable loading space; 10
                          feet                    feet by 50 feet
                          0 to 1,400 square feet  1 usable loading space; 10
                                                  feet by 25 feet
Commercial and industrial 1,401 to 20,000 square  1 usable loading space; 10
uses                      feet                    feet by 50 feet
                          20,001 to 50,000 square 2 usable loading spaces;
                          feet                    each 10 feet by 50 feet
 
   (C)   All loading spaces shall be in addition to the off-street parking area
access drive, and maneuvering lane requirements.
   (D)   Off-street loading space shall have a clearance of 13 feet 6 inches in
height.
   (E)   Off-street loading space may be completely enclosed within a building,
or may occupy a portion of the site outside of the building, provided that
where any portion of a loading space is open to public view, the space shall be
screened.
   (F)   All loading and unloading in the Industrial District shall be provided
off-street in the rear yard or interior side yard, and shall in no instance be
permitted in a front yard.
   (G)   In those instances where exterior side yards have a common
relationship with an industrial district across a public thoroughfare, loading
and unloading may take place in the exterior side yard when the setback is
equal to at least 50 feet.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 19.07)
SIGNS REGULATIONS
§ 153.295 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The township finds that signs and other visual outdoor advertising
tend to promote commerce and are related to the health, safety, and/or general
welfare of the residents of the township, and that the preservation of the
existing character of the township requires regulation of signs and of other
visual outdoor advertising.
   (B)   The township finds that failure to regulate the size, location, and
construction of signs and other outdoor advertising may have an adverse effect
upon the promotion of business and commerce in the township, may lead to poor
identification of businesses, may have an adverse effect upon the existing
aesthetic character of the township, and may cause deterioration of business
and residential areas of the township.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is to permit the signs and visual outdoor
advertising that will not, by reason of their size, location, or manner of
display, endanger public health and/or safety; confuse or mislead traffic; or
obstruct vision necessary for traffic and pedestrian safety; and further, to
regulate signs and other visual outdoor advertising in a way so as to prevent
the placement of signs, and other visual outdoor advertising in a manner that
will conceal or obscure other signs and other visual outdoor advertising on
adjacent businesses.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 20.01; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.296 SIGN DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign that advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner,
product, or activity no longer conducted or available upon the premises where
the sign is displayed.
   ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign that is accessory to the main or principal use of the
premises.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
   BANNER. Any sign printed or displayed upon cloth or other flexible material,
with or without frames. National, state or municipal flags shall not be
considered BANNERS.
   BEACON. Any light with 1 or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at 1 or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source;
also, any light with 1 or more beams that rotate or move.
   BILLBOARD. A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service,
or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than the
premises on which the sign is located.
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   BULLETIN BOARD/ANNOUNCEMENT SIGN. A sign related to a public school,
parochial school, private school, public park, or recreation facility, church
or other religious institution, which identifies activities or events to take
place involving the patrons of the specific use.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a CANOPY.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN.
      (1)   A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign.
      (2)   A sign on which the message changes more than 8 times per day shall
be considered an animated sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN for purposes of
this subchapter.
      (3)   A sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or
mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be considered a "time and
temperature" portion of a sign and not a CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN for purposes of
this subchapter.
   COMMUNITY EVENTS SIGN. A temporary sign announcing local community events
sponsored by a public, quasi-public, church, charitable, or other similar
organization.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign erected on a site designated on a valid building
permit issued by the administrative official, which advises the public of the
pertinent facts regarding the construction of the building and site
improvements.
   DEVELOPMENT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign (either freestanding or wall) which
identifies the name of the residential development or the developer, or type of
residential structures included in the development, and which is harmonious
with the vicinity, where located.
   FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign on which artificial or reflected light is
not maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when
in use.
   FREESTANDING SIGN/GROUND SIGN. A sign which is attached to or a part of a
completely self-supporting structure. The supporting structure shall be set
firmly in or below the ground surface and shall not be attached to any building
or any other structure whether portable or stationary.
   HISTORICAL MARKER OR SIGN. A sign commissioned by either a local, state, or
federal historical organization or agency which designates or describes an
historic site, event, place, person, organization, structure, building, or
group of structure or buildings which are determined historically significant.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign stating the name or description of the use of
the premises on which the sign is located.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs,
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the
sign proper.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zoning lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking,” “entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone,” and other similar
directives.
   INFLATABLE SIGN. A sign consisting of a balloon or other gas filled figure.
   INSTITUTIONAL BULLETIN BOARDS. A sign which displays the name of a religious
institution, school, library, community center, or similar public or quasi-
public institution, and the announcement of its services or activities.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign attached to a permanent foundation and not attached or
dependent for support from any building, pole, posts, or similar uprights.
   NAMEPLATE SIGN. A small sign not exceeding 2 square feet in area delineating
the name of the residential property owner and/or address of the property, but
containing no advertising whatsoever.
   NON-ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign which is not accessory to the main or principal
use of the premises.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS. A sign or poster announcing candidates seeking
political office and/or political data pertinent there to.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; sign converted
to A or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as signs;
umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles
parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless the vehicle is used in
the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
   PRIVATE TRAFFIC DIRECTION SIGNS. A sign directing traffic movement onto or
within a premise located entirely there upon and containing no advertising
message or symbol.
   PROFESSIONAL SIGN. A small sign not exceeding 2 square feet in area
delineating the name of the professional business, or organization and/or the
address of the property, but containing no advertising whatsoever.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign other than a wall sign suspended from or supported
by a building or structure and projecting there from, including marquee signs.
   PUBLIC SIGN. Any sign erected by a state, county, or local authority having
lawful jurisdiction over public property or right-of-way for the purpose of
traffic control, public safety, or public information.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign placed upon a property advertising that particular
property for sale, rent, or lease.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A sign placed on the premises of a
subdivision, or other real estate development site, to identify a proposed
start of development, the participants of the development (such as owner,
contractor, architect, leasing agent, and the like), and relative date of
availability.
   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering the
service at the location conforms with all requirements of this chapter.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building supported by the roof structure.
   SUBDIVISION SALE SIGN. A sign promoting the sale of lots or homes within a
subdivision for which final plat approval has been received.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign suspended from the underside of a horizontal plane
surface and supported by that surface.
   SWINGING SIGN. A sign designed or constructed to move or pivot as a result
of wind pressure, for the purpose of attracting attention.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is used only temporarily and is not permanently
mounted.
   WALL SIGN. A sign erected or fastened against the wall of a building, with
its exposed face in a plane approximately parallel to the plane of the wall,
and not extending more than 14 inches beyond the surface of the portion of the
building wall on which it is erected or fastened.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 20.02; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.297 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the following conditions shall apply in all
districts.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the erection or structural alteration of a sign, a
building/zoning compliance permit shall be secured from the administrative/
building official.
      (2)   A scale drawing of the outside dimensions of the sign, or the total
area encompassed by a line around all lettering or symbols, shall be presented
to the administrative official so that he or she may ensure that the provisions
of this chapter are met.
      (3)   Evidence shall also be presented to the effect that the sign will
be securely attached to the building or supporting structure, and will not
present a hazard.
      (4)   For freestanding signs, a site development plan of the intended
location of the sign, and a scale drawing of the total sign structure shall
also be presented to the administrative official.
   (B)   Illumination of signs shall be so shaded and shielded as not to
interfere with the vision of persons on adjacent roadways or neighboring
properties.
   (C)   Signs, including canopy and awning signs, except those maintained by
the township, county, state, or federal governments, shall not be located in,
project into, or overhang a public right-of-way or dedicated public easement;
unless written permission has been obtained from the appropriate jurisdiction,
and subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Approval of all such signs, including the height, location,
materials, construction, animation and signage, shall be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Commission;
      (2)   No sign and or structure shall extend closer than 24 inches to any
vehicular parking space or moving vehicle lane;
      (3)   No sign and or structure shall conflict with necessary sight
distances for proper vehicular and pedestrian movements;
      (4)   No sign and or structure shall conflict with any existing or
proposed landscape features, traffic control devices, adjacent properties and
signs and pedestrian movements;
      (5)   All signs and or structures shall be maintained in a manner so as
to continue its original appearance, and provide proper safety to the persons
and property it may affect; and
      (6)   Signs may be double-faced, but each side of the sign shall have
identical copy, and be flush with the other side.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 20.03; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.298 RESIDENTIAL AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   On-site signs may be permitted in residential and agricultural districts as
follows:
   (A)   One professional sign or nameplate sign, not more than 4 square feet
in area, which shall be non-illuminated;
   (B)   One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to the lease or sale of
the premises upon which it is placed, not exceeding 16 square feet in total
area, provided that it shall be removed within 15 days after the consummation
of a lease or sale transaction;
   (C)   A sign or signs aggregating not more than 32 square feet in area,
indicating the name of a church on the premises, its pastor and its activities;
   (D)   One temporary sign having a maximum area of 32 square feet, announcing
the sale of lots or structures in any 1 subdivision, for a maximum period of 1
year;
   (E)   Signs permitted in the residential and agricultural districts shall
not be erected closer to any adjacent street right-of-way line, provided that a
nameplate sign not more than 4 square feet in area, as regulated above, may be
placed anywhere within the front yard;
   (F)   One freestanding ground sign or wall sign, not over 16 square feet in
area with a maximum height of 6 feet, may announce the sale of farm products
grown on the premises;
   (G)   Subdivision identification signs, not exceeding 32 square feet for the
primary entrance and 16square feet for any secondary entrance; and
   (H)   In any residential district and or agricultural district, 1 non-
illuminated sign, not exceeding 2 square feet and identifying a licensed home
occupation, shall be allowed, mounted flat against the wall of the dwelling
structure. The Planning Commission can review a request to allow the sign to be
ground mounted and located in a front yard area, with a minimum setback of 5
feet from the front right-of-way line. A ground-mounted sign shall not be
located in any required side yard setback area.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, §20.04; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.299 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   On-site signs may be permitted in the commercial and industrial districts as
follows.
   (A)   No on-site sign shall be permitted or allowed to display any goods or
services that are not accessory to the business or businesses conducted on the
property.
   (B)   No on-site sign shall be lighted by means of an external flashing or
intermittent illumination source.
   (C)   Floodlights used for the illumination of any sign thereon, whether or
not the floodlights are attached to or separate from the structures on which
the sign is attached, shall not be directed in a manner so as to adversely
affect adjoining or nearby residential properties or traffic;
   (D)   Signs may be erected on exterior wall areas, windows and or canopies,
providing all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The area of a sign to be located on a building shall not exceed 15%
of the area of the face of the wall upon which the sign or signs are attached,
or 50% of the surface area of a canopy upon which the sign or signs are
attached. The total area of all wall, window and or canopy signs shall not
exceed 150 square feet. A single wall area calculation shall include the area
of all windows and doors;
      (2)   All signs shall be flat, attached and parallel to the face of any
building wall or canopy face complying with the following requirements:
         (a)   No wall or canopy sign shall extend farther than 14 inches from
the face of the building or canopy upon which it is attached; provided,
however, that where a sign extends more than 3 inches from the face of a wall,
the bottom of the sign shall not be closer than 8 feet from the ground level
below the sign; and
         (b)   The maximum height of a wall sign shall not exceed 12 feet, and
the maximum width shall not exceed 60% of the width of the wall to which the
sign is attached.
         (c)   Wall and canopy signs, as permitted, shall not extend or project
above the highest elevation of the wall or canopy to which it is attached;
provided, however, such signs may project above the wall when they are an
integral part of the wall.
   (E)   Freestanding signs may be permitted with the following requirements:
      (1)   Each business location (1 per lot of record) or shopping center
complex may be permitted 1 freestanding sign advertising the name and the
establishment or shopping center complex, including any special company or
brand name, insignia or emblem and special announcement of services.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to 0.60 square feet per lineal
foot of frontage of the occupied lot, up to a maximum of 75 square feet.
      (3)   Freestanding signs that include sign area for changeable and or
animated displays may be increased by 24 square feet, subject to the following
conditions
         (a)   The subject site shall have a minimum frontage of at least 100
feet;
         (b)   The minimum setback from any adjoining non-residential use
district shall be not less than 25 feet;
         (c)   The minimum setback from any adjoining residential use district
shall be not less than 49 feet;
         (d)   All freestanding signs that include animation or changeable copy
shall be reviewed and approved by both the Building Official and the Planning
Commission. Sign animation may be limited to display content pertaining to the
business or businesses located on the property, and for civic or charitable
event notifications.
      (4)   All supporting columns or posts for any freestanding sign shall not
be greater than 8 inches in width, unless required by an architect or engineer
in the design of the freestanding sign.
         (a)   Decorative features such as stone or brick are allowed and are
excluded from the 8-inch-width requirement.
         (b)   No advertising shall be allowed on the supporting material,
except that the property's address (6-inch numbers/letters maximum height) may
be located on the supporting columns or post, so as to be visible to the
public.
      (5)   Freestanding signs located less than 5 feet and greater than 1 foot
from the front property line shall have an under-clearance of 8 feet from the
natural grade.
      (6)   Freestanding signs located less than 10 feet and greater than 5
feet from the front property line shall not be greater than 3 feet in height,
or have an under-clearance of less than 8 feet from the natural grade.
      (7)   Freestanding signs located greater than 10 feet from the front
property line are not required to have an under-clearance from the natural
grade, and are limited to the maximum sign height of 25 feet.
      (8)   Freestanding signs shall be located in a way so that no part of the
structure extends over the public right-of-way, except those signs approved by
the Planning Commission, as allowed by §
153.297(C), and shall be construed so as not to obscure vision and contribute
to hazardous conditions.
      (9)   No freestanding sign shall be placed within a clear vision zone for
a corner lot. The clear vision zone for a corner lot shall consist of a
triangular area defined by the point of intersection of the right-of-way lines,
and the 2 points extended along such lines a distance of 25 feet.
      (10)   The maximum height of all freestanding signs shall be limited to
25 feet.
   (F)   Customary lettering or other insignia that are a structural part of
the dispensing of petroleum products, consisting only of the brand name of
gasoline sold, leaded warning sign, a price indicator, and any other sign
required by law, and not exceeding a total of 4 square feet on each pump; and
if illuminated, the signs shall not be the flashing or intermittent-type, and
shall not in any manner constitute a traffic hazard with respect to adjacent
streets or intersections.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, §20.05; Am. Ord. 138, passed 11-24-2003; Am. Ord.
173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord. 09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.300 PERMITTED SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following signs are permitted in all districts:
   (A)   Highway signs erected by the United States government, State of
Michigan, Genesee County, or Charter Township of Montrose.
   (B)   Governmental use signs erected by governmental agencies to designate
hours of activity or conditions of use for parks, parking lots, recreational
areas, other public space, or for governmental buildings.
   (C)    Directional signs in conjunction with drives or off-street parking
areas, provided any such sign does not exceed 4 square feet in area, is limited
to traffic control functions, and does not obstruct traffic vision.
   (D)   Historic markers or signs designating sites recognized by federal,
state, or local historical commissions and/or organizations, as centennial
farms, historic sites, or historical landmarks.
   (E)   Placards posted to control or prohibit hunting and/or trespassing
within the township.
   (F)   Essential service signs denoting utility lines, railroad lines,
hazards, and precautions.
   (G)   Memorial signs or tablets that are either:
      (1)   Cut into the face of a masonry surface; or
      (2)   Constructed of bronze or other incombustible material, when located
flat on the face of a building.
   (H)   Temporary signs, not exceeding 4 square feet, may be placed for no
more than 2 weeks, advertising noncommercial rummage sales, garage sales, or
other similar used merchandise sales, as long as the sign is placed on private
property with the owner's permission. No such sign shall be placed within the
road right-of-way areas and within a clear vision zone as described in §
153.299(E)(9) above.
   (I)   Political signs promoting political parties, candidates or millage
issues, not exceeding 32 square feet, may be placed on private property with
the owners permission for no more than 45 days prior to an election, with such
signs being removed within 3 days after the completion of the election. No such
sign shall be placed within the road right-of-way areas and within a clear
vision zone as described in §
153.299(E)(9) above.
   (J)    Special decorative displays or signs used for holidays, public
demonstrations or promotion of civic welfare or charitable purposes, when
authorized by the Planning Commission. In considering the authorization, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following standards:
      (1)   The size, character, and nature of the display or sign;
      (2)   The duration or time period during which the display or sign will
be utilized;
      (3)   The purpose(s) for which the sign display is to be erected;
      (4)   The arrangements made for the removal of the sign or display after
the termination of its usefulness;
      (5)    The effect of the proposed sign or display on light and air
circulation for lots that are both adjoining and in the surrounding
neighborhood of the proposed sign or display; and
      (6)   Whether or not the sign or display will constitute a traffic
hazard.
   (K)    Construction signs showing names of building contractors,
professional firms, and lending institutions on sites under construction, not
to exceed 24 square feet in area. The sign shall be confined to the site of the
construction, construction shed or trailer, and shall be removed prior to the
project receiving final approval or an occupancy permit by the Building
Official.
   (L)    Portable signs, pennants, spinners and streamers, for a period of not
more than 30 days for a total of 3 special events per year, provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   They do not exceed 15 square feet in area on any side;
      (2)   They are not located closer than 10 feet to a street right-of-way;
      (3)    They may be illuminated, provided the lights are not flashing or
intermittent, are not placed or designed so that they can be confused with, or
appear similar to, a highway sign or traffic safety device, and are connected
to an electrical outlet approved by state code;
      (4)   No portable sign shall exceed 10 feet in height; and
      (5)   No portable sign shall be located in a manner so as to interfere
with vehicular or pedestrian traffic flow, visibility, or safety.
   (M)   Temporary signs (up no more than 30 days) announcing a community
event.
   (N)   Flags and banners, up to a maximum of 10 on a zoning lot. Requests for
more than 10 require Planning Commission approval.
   (O)   Building markers.
   (P)   Incidental signs.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 20.06; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.301 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Permanent inflatable signs and beacons.
   (B)    Signs that incorporate, in any manner or are illuminated by, any
flashing or moving lights other than for the conveyance of noncommercial
information requiring periodic change, such as temperature or stock averages,
unless approval has been granted for the sign as allowed in §
153.299.
   (C)   Permanent exterior banners, pennants, spinners and streamers, other
than a sign as permitted by §
153.300 above.
   (D)   Permanent signs painted directly on structures, or signs painted on,
attached, or affixed to any tree, rock, or similar organic or inorganic natural
matter or feature.
   (E)   Exterior string lights used in the connection with a commercial
premise, other than holiday decorations.
   (F)    Any sign that is structurally or electrically unsafe.
   (G)   Any business sign or sign structure, now or hereafter existing, that
no longer advertises a bona fide business conducted or a product sold.
   (H)    Any sign on a trailer or unlicensed motor vehicle parked in front of
a business for the purpose of advertising a business, product or service of a
business located on the premises where the vehicle or trailer is parked.
   (I)   Any sign structure or frame no longer containing a sign.
   (J)   Marquee and roof signs.
   (K)   Off-site and billboard.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 20.07; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 153.302 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Nonconforming signs shall not:
   (A)   Be re-established after the activity, business, or usage to which it
relates has been discontinued for 90 days or longer;
   (B)    Be structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign or so
as to change its shape, size, type, or design; or
   (C)   Be re-established after damage or destruction, if the estimated
expense of reconstruction exceeds 50% of the replacement cost as determined by
the administrative official.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 20.08 ; Am. Ord. 173, passed 11-10-2008; Am.
Ord. 09-177, passed 3-18-2009)
LANDSCAPING STANDARDS
§ 153.315 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Landscaping, greenbelts, and screening are necessary for the
protection and enhancement of the environment and for the continued vitality of
Charter Township of Montrose.
   (B)   Landscaping and greenbelts are capable of enhancing the visual
environment, preserving natural features, improving property values, and
alleviating the impact of noise, traffic, and visual disruption related to
intensive uses.
   (C)   Screening is important to protect less-intensive uses from the noise,
light, traffic, litter, and other impacts of intensive nonresidential uses.
   (D)   The purpose of this section is to set minimum standards for the
protection and enhancement of the environment through requirements for the
design and use of landscaping, greenbelts, and screening.
   (E)   The requirements set forth in this subchapter shall apply to all uses
requiring site plan review. No site plan shall be approved unless the site plan
shows landscaping consistent with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Furthermore, where landscaping is required, a building permit shall
not be issued until the required landscape plan is submitted and approved, and
a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless provisions set forth in
this section have been met or a performance bond has been posted.
   (G)   In cases where the use of an existing building changes or an existing
building is altered or re-occupied, all of the standards set forth herein shall
be met.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.01)
§ 153.316 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Construction in any zoning district that abuts a residentially used or
zoned parcel (except for an agricultural use or zoning), may be required to
provide a greenbelt, fence, a protective wall or an earthen berm along the
property lines.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall determine the height of a protective
faced brick or approved poured concrete decorative wall from 4 to 6 feet when
not specifically determined by ordinance, in a manner as to be in harmony with
the general character of the neighborhood; and the color of brick or facing
shall be compatible with brick used in the area.
   (C)   (1)   The determination shall be made prior to the approval of a site
plan.
      (2)   When it is determined that a masonry wall will not be desirable, a
10-foot wide greenbelt buffer strip, a 4-foot to 6-foot chain link fence with
or without view-obscuring vertical redwood pickets, an earthen berm or a
pressure treated wood fence may be substituted by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   All required greenbelts, walls, berms, or fences shall be constructed
with the standards cited in this section.
      (1)   Required walls or fences shall be located on the lot line, except
where underground utilities or drainage requirements interfere, and except in
instances where this chapter requires conformance with front yard setback lines
abutting Residential Districts.
      (2)   The wall must rest on a concrete foundation which extends at least
42 inches in depth below the finished grade of the land.
      (3)   No like wall shall be constructed of exposed concrete block or
cinder block, nor shall it be painted.
   (E)   Unless otherwise expressly directed by the provisions of this chapter,
all protective walls, fences, or greenbelts shall be provided when required
along and immediately joining the zoning district boundary line and shall be
installed so as to lie wholly on the land of the owner seeking site plan
approval.
   (F)   All protective walls, fences, or greenbelts required by this chapter
shall be completely installed prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit for
the use of the premises, except as provided hereinafter.
   (G)   Wherever in this chapter a greenbelt, planting or material in
conjunction with a fence is required, it shall be planted and reasonably
maintained with permanent plant materials to provide a screen to abutting
properties.
   (H)   Suitable materials equal in characteristics to the plant materials
listed with the spacing as required may be accepted by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.02)
§ 153.317 LANDSCAPING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specified in the general requirements for each
zoning district, all landscaping shall conform to the following standards.
   (B)   All developed portions of the site shall conform to the following
general landscaping standards, except where specific landscape elements, such
as a greenbelt, berms, or screening are required:
      (1)   All portions of the landscaped area shall be planted with grass,
ground cover, shrubbery, or other suitable plant material, except that paved
patios, terraces, sidewalks, and similar site features may be incorporated with
Planning Commission approval;
      (2)   A mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees shall be planted at the
rate of 1 tree for each 3,000 square feet or portion of landscaped open-space
area;
      (3)   Required trees and shrubs may be planted at uniform intervals, at
random, or in groupings;
      (4)   In consideration of the overall design and impact of the landscape
plan, the Planning Commission may reduce or waive the requirements outlined
herein for general landscaping, or for landscaping in greenbelt areas, on
berms, or as part of a screen, provided that any like adjustment is in keeping
with the intent of this chapter; and
      (5)   The total landscaped area shall be the basis for determining the
required number of trees or shrubs, irrespective of the portion which is
devoted to patios, terraces, sidewalks, or other site features.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.03)
§ 153.318 GREENBELT BUFFER.
   Where required, greenbelts and greenbelt buffers shall conform to the
following standards:
   (A)   A required greenbelt or greenbelt buffer may be interrupted only to
provide for roads or driveways for vehicular access;
   (B)   Grass, ground cover, or other suitable live plant material shall be
planted over the entire greenbelt area, except that paving may be used in areas
of intensive pedestrian circulation;
   (C)   A minimum of 1 deciduous tree or evergreen tree shall be planted for
each 30 lineal feet or portion thereof of required greenbelt length. Required
trees may be planted at uniform intervals, at random, or in groupings; and
   (D)   For the purpose of determining required plant material, required
greenbelt area length shall be measured along the length of the greenbelt area.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.04)
§ 153.319 EARTH BERMS.
   Where required, earth berms or landscaped berms shall conform to the
following standards:
   (A)   The berm shall be at least 3 feet above the grade elevation, and shall
be constructed with slopes no steeper than 1 foot vertical for each 4 feet
horizontal with at least a 2-foot flat area on the top. For the purposes of
this provision, grade elevation shall be the ground elevation at the property
line adjacent to the proposed berm;
   (B)   The berm area shall be planted with grass or other suitable ground
cover to ensure that it withstands wind and weather and retains its height and
shape;
   (C)   A minimum of 1 deciduous or evergreen tree shall be planted for each
30 linear feet or portion of required berm;
   (D)   Eight shrubs per tree may be planted as substitute for trees required
in division (C) above;
   (E)   Required trees and shrubs may be planted at uniform intervals, at
random, or in groupings; and
   (F)   For the purpose of determining required plant material, required berm
length shall be measured along the length of the berm.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.05)
§ 153.320 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   Off-street parking areas shall be landscaped as follows:
   (A)   (1)   An area equal to at least 5% of the total parking area shall be
used for interior landscaping, in off-street parking areas containing greater
than 150 spaces.
      (2)   Whenever possible, parking lot landscaping shall be arranged to
improve the safety of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, guide traffic movement,
and improve the appearance of the parking area;
   (B)   Parking lot landscaping shall be no less than 5 feet in any single
dimension and no less than 150 square feet in any single area and shall be
protected from parking areas with curbing, or other permanent means to prevent
vehicular encroachment onto the landscaped areas;
   (C)   The landscape plan shall designate the sizes, quantities, and types of
plant material to be used in parking lot landscaping;
   (D)   Required landscaping elsewhere on the parcel shall not be counted in
meeting the parking lot landscaping requirements; and
   (E)   A minimum of 1 deciduous tree shall be planted in each landscaped
area.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.06)
§ 153.321 LANDSCAPING OF RIGHT-OF-WAY AREAS.
   Public rights-of-way adjacent to required landscaped areas and greenbelts
shall be planted with grass or other suitable ground cover and maintained by
the owner of the property as if they were part of required landscaped areas and
greenbelts.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.07)
§ 153.322 PLANT MATERIALS.
   Whenever in this chapter planting is required, it shall be planted within 6
months from the date of completion of the building or improvement, and shall
thereafter be reasonably maintained with permanent plant materials.
   (A)   Plant material spacing:
      (1)   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than 4 feet from the
fence line or property line;
      (2)   Plant materials shall be planted in 2 or more rows; plantings shall
be staggered in rows;
      (3)   Evergreen trees, as defined hereafter, shall be planted not more
than 30 feet on centers;
      (4)   Narrow evergreens, as defined hereafter, shall be planted not more
than 3 feet on centers;
      (5)   Deciduous trees shall be planted not more than 30 feet on centers;
      (6)   Tree-like shrubs shall be planted not more than 10 feet on centers;
and
      (7)   Large deciduous shrubs shall be planted not more than 4 feet on
centers.
   (B)   Suggested plant materials:
      (1)   Evergreen trees; minimum 5 feet in height:
         (a)   Cedar;
         (b)   Fir;
         (c)   Spruce;
         (d)   Pine; and
         (e)   Douglas Fir.
      (2)   Narrow evergreens; minimum 3 feet in height:
         (a)   Blue Columnar Chinese Juniper;
         (b)   Pyramidal Red-Cedar;
         (c)   Swiss Stone Pine; and
         (d)   Pyramidal White Pine.
      (3)   Tree-like shrubs; minimum 4 feet in height:
         (a)   Flowering Crab;
         (b)   Mountain Ash;
         (c)   Redbud;
         (d)   Magnolia;
         (e)   Rose of Sharon; and
         (f)   Hawthorn.
      (4)   Large deciduous shrubs; minimum 6 feet in height:
         (a)   Honeysuckle;
         (b)   Mock-Orange;
         (c)   Lilac;
         (d)   Burning Bush;
         (e)   Viburnum;
         (f)   Forsythia;
         (g)   Spirea;
         (h)   Hazelnut; and
         (i)   Privet.
      (5)   Large deciduous trees; minimum 8 feet in height:
         (a)   Oak;
         (b)   Sycamore;
         (c)   Norway Maple;
         (d)   Hard Maple;
         (e)   Birch;
         (f)   Beech; and
         (g)   Honeylocust.
   (C)   Trees not permitted:
      (1)   Box Elders;
      (2)   Soft Maple;
      (3)   Fruit Trees;
      (4)   Nut Trees;
      (5)   Willows;
      (6)   Elms;
      (7)   Poplars;
      (8)   Ailanthus (Chinese Tree of Heaven);
      (9)   All thorned trees and shrubs; and
      (10)   Ribes (Gooseberry).
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 21.08)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.335 SCOPE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish general requirements
applicable to all uses of land and structures in this chapter, except as
otherwise specifically identified herein.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.01)
§ 153.336 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   The intent of these requirements is to regulate single-family dwellings, to
prescribe uniform standards, to provide for inspection and enforcement, to
provide conditions and limitations for the construction and occupancy thereof,
to protect surrounding areas from depressed property values and to protect the
safety, health, and welfare of the residents and occupants thereof. These
regulations do not apply to mobile home parks.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, build, or place a
single-family dwelling on any lot without first obtaining a building permit
from the township.
   (B)   Before a building permit may be issued for the construction of a
single-family dwelling, the applicant must first petition the administrative
official for a permit and shall submit 2 sets of lot layout plans which shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Statistical data, including the name and address of owner, size of
lot, zoning classification, location of sewer and water, results of perk test,
square feet, and number of rooms together with any other requirements as are
reasonable and that the administrative official may require;
      (2)   A plan drawn to scale of 1 inch equals 20 feet showing the proposed
layout of home, with driveway, auto parking, landscaping, well and septic
locations, and any other information the administrative official deems
necessary;
      (3)   The administrative official shall review the plan and communicate
his or her approval or recommend plan modification to the applicant. In cases
where modifications have been recommended, the applicant shall submit a revised
plan to the administrative official for review;
      (4)   The administrative official shall approve the plan only upon a
finding that the proposed construction will not cause undue hardships, create
an unsafe or hazardous condition and that the proposed home should not depress
real property value or be inconsistent with aesthetics of the immediate
surrounding neighboring homes;
      (5)   The final plan, as submitted by the applicant, may be disapproved
for any inadequacy found to be detrimental to the character or real property
values of the neighborhood or detrimental to the public health, safety, and
general welfare; and
      (6)   A denial of a building/zoning compliance permit by the
administrative official/building official for failure to comply or meet the
standard of this section may be appealed to the township's Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (C)   All single-family dwellings shall be subject to the requirements of
the Township Zoning and Building Code, as amended. All like dwellings shall
also be subject to all other laws and ordinances that pertain to the dwellings.
   (D)   The following general requirements are necessary to facilitate the
orderly placement of new dwellings in single-family districts in conjunction
with existing dwellings; to assure adequate construction and health standards;
to provide for the development of safe, economical housing in the community;
and to maintain property values:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, including attached additions, and detached
accessory structures shall comply with the minimum lot size, floor area, and
setback requirements, and height limitations for the district in which the
dwelling is proposed;
      (2)   A single-family dwelling shall be constructed to meet or exceed the
requirements of the Township Building Code or the current United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Mobile Home Construction and
Safety Standards, as may be amended, whichever is applicable. Each modular or
mobile home dwelling must bear an approved HUD certification label;
      (3)   All dwellings shall be firmly anchored to a permanent foundation to
restrain potential displacement resulting from wind velocity. The foundation
shall be designed to completely enclose the perimeter of the dwelling and all
attached additions, and shall be constructed in conformance with the Township
Building Code. If the dwelling is a mobile home or modular home, it shall
comply with the manufacturer’s pillar placement and load bearing capacity
specifications, as may be applicable;
      (4)   All dwellings shall be connected to either municipal sanitary sewer
and water service, to private on-site facilities, or to individual well and
septic systems as may be approved by the County Health Department; and
      (5)   Prior to installation of a modular or mobile home dwelling on a
permanent foundation any wheels and towing mechanism, including tongue, hitch
assembly, and any other towing apparatus shall be completely removed. Axles may
remain, although tires shall be removed.
   (E)   The following miscellaneous requirements shall apply to all
residential dwellings:
      (1)   The dwellings shall provide a minimum width and depth of at least
24 feet;
      (2)   The dwellings shall have an overhang or eave as required by the
building code for residential dwellings or be similar to the surrounding
residential neighborhood;
      (3)   Any type of roofing materials generally acceptable and applied in a
manner resulting in an appearance similar to, traditionally site-built
dwellings in the vicinity may be used on the roof of the dwelling, attached
additions, and detached accessory structures. However, in no case shall the
pitch of the roof be less than 4 on 12;
      (4)   Dwellings shall have no fewer than 2 exterior doors, 1 of which
shall enter upon a main living area in front of the dwelling, with the other
located in either the rear or side;
      (5)   Steps designed to provide safe, convenient access to each exterior
door shall be provided to the door area, or to porches accessible to the door
area, when required by a difference in elevation between the door sill and the
surrounding grade;
      (6)   Dwellings shall be provided with exterior finished materials
similar to that surrounding residential neighborhood;
      (7)   Dwellings shall have an exterior wall configuration which
represents an average width-to-depth or depth-to-width ratio which does not
exceed 3-to-1, or is in reasonable conformity with the configuration of
dwelling units in the surrounding residential neighborhood;
      (8)   Additions attached to the dwelling shall be constructed in
conformance with the requirements of the Township Zoning Ordinance, Township
Building Code, HUD Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards, and/or other
laws and ordinances, as applicable;
      (9)   Detached accessory buildings shall be located on the lot or parcel
in conformance with regulations for the placement of accessory buildings of
this chapter; and
      (10)   The dwelling shall contain a storage area in a basement located
underneath the dwelling, in an attic area, or in a separate structure of
standard construction similar to, or of better quality than, the principal
dwelling, which storage area shall be equal to 10% of the square footage of the
dwelling or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
   (F)   (1)   The dwelling shall be aesthetically compatible in design and
appearance with other residences in the vicinity.
      (2)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the administrative official/building official. A denial
of the compatibility and appearance of a structure by the administrative
official/building official may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals. In
the event that the appeal includes a variance, an approval must also be
obtained from the Zoning Board of Appeals as required by §§
153.400 through
153.404.
      (3)   Any determination of compatibility shall be based upon the
following standards:
         (a)   Architectural style is not restricted. Evaluation of the
appearance of a project shall be based on the quality of its design and
relationship to its surroundings;
         (b)   Buildings shall have a good scale and be in harmonious
conformance with permanent neighboring development;
         (c)   Materials shall:
            1.   Have good architectural character and shall be selected for
harmony of the building with adjoining buildings;
            2.   Be selected for suitability to the type of buildings and the
design in which they are used. Buildings shall have the same materials, or
those that are architecturally harmonious, used for all building walls and
other exterior building components wholly or partly visible from public ways;
            3.   Be of durable quality; and
            4.   In any design in which the structural frame is exposed to
view, the structural materials shall be compatible within themselves and
harmonious with their surroundings.
         (d)   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves, and
parapets, shall have good proportions and relationships to one another;
         (e)   Mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on roof, ground,
or buildings shall be screened from public view; and
         (f)   Compatibility shall be based upon the standards set forth in
this section, as compared against the character, design, and appearance of the
surrounding residential dwelling. The above standards shall not be construed to
prohibit innovative design concepts involving matters such as solar energy,
view, unique land contour, or relief from the standard designed home.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.02; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
21-006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.337 LOT SIZE AVERAGING.
   Lot size averaging may be permitted if the Planning Commission determines
that it will provide a better relationship of lots to the topography,
vegetation, or other natural or human-made features when lot size averaging is
permitted the following conditions shall apply:
   (A)   The number of lots shall not exceed the number allowed for the zoning
district in which the development is located;
   (B)   Reduction of lot area or width below the minimum required for the
zoning district may be permitted by the Planning Commission for not more than
1/3 of the total number of lots in the development;
   (C)   No lot shall have an area or width greater than 20% below that area or
width required in §
153.200; and
   (D)   All computations showing lot area and the average resulting through
this technique shall be provided by the applicant and indicated on the print of
the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.03)
§ 153.338 SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTER HOUSING OPTION.
   The intent of this section is to permit the development of single-family
residential patterns which, through design innovation, will introduce
flexibility so as to provide for a more appropriate development in situations
where the normal subdivision approach would otherwise be restrictive owing to
the presence of environmentally sensitive lands on the site or the
configuration of the site.
   (A)   In approving an area for the cluster housing option, the Planning
Commission shall find at least 1 of the following to exist:
      (1)   The parcel to be developed has frontage on a major or secondary
street and is generally parallel to the street and is of shallow depth as
measured from the street;
      (2)   The parcel has frontage on a major or secondary street and is of a
narrow width as measured along the street which makes platting difficult;
      (3)   The parcel is shaped in a way so that it contains acute angles
which would make a normal subdivision difficult to achieve and has frontage on
a major or secondary street;
      (4)   A substantial part of the parcel’s perimeter is bordered by a major
street which would result in a substantial proportion of the lots of the
development abutting the major street;
      (5)   The parcel contains a floodplain or poor soil conditions which
result in a substantial portion of the total area of the parcel being
unbuildable. Soil test borings, floodplain maps or other documented evidence
must be submitted to the Planning Commission in order to substantiate the
parcel’s qualification for cluster development; and/or
      (6)   (a)   The parcel contains natural amenities which could be
preserved through the use of cluster development.
         (b)   The assets may include natural stands of large trees, land which
serves as a natural habitat for wildlife, unusual topographic features, or
other natural assets which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, should
be preserved.
         (c)   Requests for qualification under these conditions must be
supported by documented evidence which indicates that the natural assets would
qualify the parcel under this option.
   (B)   In areas meeting the above criteria, the minimum yard setback, height,
density, and minimum lot size per unit as required by §
153.200 may be waived.
      (1)   The minimum floor area for all dwelling units constructed under
this option shall be at least equal to the minimum floor area requirements for
the single-family residential district in which the cluster is to be
constructed.
      (2)   The attaching of single-family dwelling units, one to another, may
be permitted when the homes are attached by means of 1 or more of the
following:
         (a)   Through a common party wall which does not have over 50% of its
area in common with an abutting dwelling wall;
         (b)   By means of an architectural wall detail which does not form
interior room space; and/or
         (c)   Through a common party wall in only the garage portion of an
abutting structure.
      (3)   The maximum number of units attached in the above described manner
shall not exceed 4.
      (4)   In a single-family cluster housing development, the dwelling unit
density shall be no greater than if the gross land area were to be developed in
the minimum square foot lot areas as required for each single-family district
under §
153.200.
      (5)   A cluster subdivision in the agricultural district may receive a
density bonus of 200% upon approval of the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Once a parcel of land is used in a cluster housing option, the
remaining land will not be eligible for a density bonus under division (B)(5)
above.
      (7)   Density shall not exceed 1 dwelling unit per 44,000 square feet,
excluding road rights-of-way.
   (C)   Yard requirements shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Spacing between any grouping of 4 or less 1-family units and
another grouping of like structures shall be equal to at least 20 feet,
measured between the nearest point of the 2 groupings. A grouping may include a
single, freestanding unit;
      (2)   All the groupings shall be situated as to have 1 side of the
building abutting onto a common open space;
      (3)   Any side of a building adjacent to a private service drive or
private lane shall not be nearer to the drive or lane than 20 feet;
      (4)   Any side of a building adjacent to a public right-of-way shall not
be nearer to the public rights-of-way than 30 feet;
      (5)   This nature of development, when abutting a front yard of an
existing recorded subdivision which is not a part of the site plan submitted
under this section, shall cause all dwelling units facing the subdivision to
relate through its front or entrance facade and shall treat the side of the
grouping as a front yard; and
      (6)   No building shall be located closer than 30 feet to the outer
perimeter (property line) of the site.
   (D)   The maximum height of buildings shall be 35 feet.
   (E)   Site plans submitted under this option shall be accompanied by
information regarding the following:
      (1)   The proposed manner of holding title to open land;
      (2)   The proposed method of regulating the use of open land; and
      (3)   The proposed method of maintenance of property and financing.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.04; Am. Ord. 105, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 153.339 BUILDING GRADES.
   (A)   All required yards shall be maintained at a slope to cause the flow of
surface waters to existing drainage systems, without causing any ponding or
flooding upon any adjacent lands resulting from any change in elevation;
provided, however, this shall not prevent the grading of a yard into landscaped
depressions or terraced areas where adequate and safe means for the disposal of
surface waters are constructed and maintained.
   (B)   When a new building is constructed or located on a vacant lot between
2 existing buildings, the yard around the new building shall be graded to meet
the existing grades and permit runoff of surface waters without encroachment
onto adjacent properties, except as the runoff follows drainage patterns as
they exist.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.05)
§ 153.340 BUILDINGS AND OR STRUCTURES ACCESSORY TO AGRICULTURAL AND SINGLE-
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USES.
   Buildings and or structures accessory to agricultural and single-family
residential uses shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Where the accessory buildings and or structures are structurally
attached to a main building, it shall not exceed the ground floor area of the
principal structure, and must conform to all regulations of this chapter
applicable to main buildings.
   (B)   Where the accessory buildings and or structures are structurally
detached from the main building, it shall comply with the following items:
      (1)   No detached accessory building and or structure shall be located in
any required front yard setback area as required in § 153.200.
      (2)   All detached accessory buildings and or structures located outside
of the required setbacks, as listed in § 153.200, but in a front yard area must
comply with the following conditions:
         (a)   All such detached accessory buildings and or structures shall be
located behind the front wall line of the main building on the adjoining
properties.
         (b)   All such detached accessory buildings and or structures shall
maintain a roof type and exterior wall covering to match or be compatible to
that of the main principal residential dwelling unit located on the property.
         (c)   All such detached accessory buildings and or structures must
maintain a 25-foot side yard setback from side or rear property lines of
adjoining properties.
         (d)   All such detached accessory buildings and or structures shall
not be placed directly in front of any living area of the main dwelling unit,
unless the accessory building is located over 100 feet from the main dwelling
unit.
      (3)   No detached accessory buildings and or structures may occupy more
than 25% of a required rear yard, plus 40% of any non-required rear yard.
      (4)   (a)   Detached accessory buildings and or structures shall not be
located closer than 10 feet to any principal building or other accessory
buildings and or structures, nor shall it be located closer than 10 feet to any
rear or side lot line.
         (b)   Detached accessory buildings and or structures meeting all of
the following requirements shall be permitted to be located within the 10-foot
setback area from any principal building or other accessory buildings and/or
structures. Such accessory buildings and or structures shall not be located
closer than the required front, rear or side yard setback as listed for
principal buildings in § 153.200.
            1.   The detached accessory buildings and or structures shall have
a foundation not less than the minimum required by the Michigan Building Code
for frost protection.
            2.   On any section of the detached accessory buildings and or
structures located 5 feet or less from any principal building or other
accessory building and or structure, a fire partition shall be provided of not
less than a 1-hour fire resistance rating on the accessory building and or
structure side.
            3.   The detached accessory buildings and or structures shall not
be located closer than 15 feet to any side lot line.
      (5)   In subdivisions, detached accessory buildings and or structures of
less than 150 square feet may be located as close as 5 feet to the side or rear
lot line.
      (6)   Detached accessory buildings shall observe the following size
requirements:
 
Parcel Size                Maximum Building Sizes     Maximum Number of
                                                      Buildings
                           Accessory buildings shall
Up to 1 acre               be no greater than the     1
(43,560 square feet)       foundation size of the     1
                           main dwelling unit
                           160 square feet
                           The total combined area of
Greater than 1 acre and    2 accessory buildings      2
less than 5 acres (217,800 shall not exceed 3,000     1
square feet)               square feet
                           160 square feet
                           The total combined area of
Greater than 5 acres       2 accessory buildings      2
(217,800 square feet)      shall not exceed 4,000     1
                           square feet
                           160 square feet
Note: The maximum building lot coverage for all structures located on a
single lot of record must be in compliance with §
153.200.
 
      (7)   Accessory buildings and or structures on corner lots shall comply
with the following:
         (a)   For the purposes of determining setbacks as measured from the
right-of-way line, a corner lot shall maintain the minimum required front yard
setback on both road and/or street frontages.
         (b)   The required rear yard setback shall be applied to the yard
opposite of the building's street address.
      (8)   No accessory buildings and or structures in a residential zoning
district shall exceed 1 story or 18 feet in height, except for buildings
accessory to agricultural uses.
      (9)   No accessory buildings and or structures shall be constructed prior
to the completion of the footings of the principal building on the property.
      (10)   No accessory buildings and or structures shall involve any
business, profession, trade, or occupation in the accessory buildings.
      (11)   Accessory buildings and or structures used in conjunction with a
bona fide agricultural operation are exempt from the height limitation,
restrictions on the number of buildings, and the floor area requirements noted
above.
      (12)   When the placement of a detached accessory building and or
structure is denied by the Building Official, an appeal before the Zoning Board
of Appeals may be taken by the property owner. Notification of surrounding
property owners, as required under §
153.427 of the code, must be complied with prior to the appeal being heard.
   (C)   A private solar energy system that is accessory to a principal use
that is designed and built to serve the principal use of the property shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Freestanding or ground-mounted solar energy systems shall comply
with the following:
         (a)   SES shall not be located in any front yard area, except when
said system is located near a rear yard area of an adjoining property and is
located a minimum of 100 feet from any adjoining residential dwelling
structure.
         (b)   SES shall not be located closer than 10 feet to any principal
building or other accessory buildings and or structures located on the
property. SES shall not be located closer than 10 feet to any rear or side lot
line and be a distance of at least 100 feet from an adjoining residential
dwelling structure.
         (c)   Private SES shall be restricted to a height of 12 feet.
         (d)   The total square feet of all solar energy systems shall not
exceed the total square footage of the foundation of the principal dwelling
unit located on the property.
      (2)   A roof-mounted solar energy system, including solar shingles, shall
be installed in compliance with the Michigan Residential Building Code and
shall not project more than 2 feet above the highest point of the roof it is
located on.
      (3)   When the placement of any solar energy system is denied by the
Building Official, an appeal before the Zoning Board of Appeals may be
requested by the property owner. Notification of surrounding property owners,
as required under §
153.427 of the code, must be complied with prior to the review.
   (D)   Cargo containers.
      (1)   The placement and use of any cargo container as an accessory
building or structure, temporarily or otherwise, is prohibited in all zoning
districts.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division, a CARGO CONTAINER shall be
defined as a reusable vessel that was originally designed for or used in the
packing, shipping, movement, or transportation of freight, articles, goods, or
commodities, which is capable of being mounted or moved by rail, truck, or
ship, including any other portable containers or pods used for storage with
similar appearance and characteristics of cargo containers.
      (3)   This division shall not apply to the temporary use of storage
containers for construction activities on properties with a valid, current, and
appropriate building or zoning permit.
      (4)   An administrative permit may be granted by the Zoning Official or
his/her designee, not to exceed 14 days, for the use of such a container while
in the active process of moving to or from the property on which the container
is placed.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.06; Am. Ord. 111, passed 5-18-1998; Am. Ord.
170, passed 9-16-2008; Am. Ord. 12-198, passed 1-15-2013; Am. Ord. 18-231,
passed 12-18-2018; Am. Ord. 21-003-153.340, passed 9-21-2021; Am. Ord. 21-006-
153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021)
§ 153.341 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN OTHER DISTRICTS.
   (A)    In multiple-family, commercial or industrial districts, accessory
buildings shall only occupy the ground area that the principal building is
permitted to cover.
   (B)   Accessory buildings, such as buildings for parking attendants, guard
shelters, gatehouses, and transformer buildings, may be located in the front or
side yard in the districts, only upon Planning Commission approval.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.07 ; Am. Ord. 170, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 153.342 HORSES.
   The keeping of horses for recreational purposes shall be permitted in all
zoning districts upon a land area of not less than 5 acres provided that the
use shall be for the private/personal use of the owner or lessee of the land,
his or her family, and friends and friends and shall not constitute a
commercial occupation nor a public stable.
   (A)   (1)   No barns, pens or corrals shall be located closer than 200 feet
from all property lines or less than 150 feet from all street right-of-way
lines.
      (2)   Provided further that the minimum side yard setback shall be
reduced 1 foot for each additional foot that the barn, pen or corral is setback
form the existing right-of-way over 150 feet.
      (3)   Provided further that the side yard setback shall not be reduced
below a minimum of 50 feet.
   (B)   At least 2 acre shall be provided for each horse kept, except that the
number of horses now existing on each parcel where horses are presently kept
for recreational purposes may be continued under the non-conforming use
provisions of this chapter, and subject to all conditions therein.
   (C)   Foals born on parcels where horses are presently kept may be kept on
the parcel for 2 years even though the additional horses may increase the
number of horses on the parcel beyond the 1 horse per 2 acres limitation, but
in no case shall there be more than 1 foal per 2 acres.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.08; Am. Ord. 131, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 153.343 FENCES.
   Fences are permitted, or required subject to the following:
   (A)   (1)   Fences on all lots of record in all residential districts which
enclose property and/or are within a required side or rear yard shall not
exceed 6 feet in height, measured from the surface of the ground, and shall not
extend into the front of the lot nearer than the front of the house or the
required minimum front yard measured from the road right-of-way, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   In addition, no solid (opaque) fence located within the front yard
shall exceed 2 feet in height within a clear vision zone or 4 feet otherwise;
      (3)   In addition, where a property’s front yard is located adjacent to
an adjoining property’s rear yard, a solid (opaque) fence, not greater than 6
feet in height, with the good side of the fence facing outwards may be placed
so it does not extend into the front of the lot nearer than the front of the
house on the adjoining lot or the required minimum front yard measured from the
road right-of-way, whichever is greater;
   (B)   Recorded lots having excess of 2 acres and having a frontage of at
least 200 feet, not included in a recorded plat, and parcels in agricultural
zoned districts, are excluded from these regulations;
   (C)   Fences shall not contain barbed wire, razor wire, electric current or
charge of electricity. Agricultural uses may provide barbed wire or fencing
containing an electric current or charge of electricity when the fence is
utilized to contain livestock;
   (D)   Barbed wire fences may be permitted for enclosing public utility
facilities and industrial uses when installed for public safety. If used,
barbed wire shall be no closer than 6 feet to the ground;
   (E)   Fences which enclose public institutional uses, parks, playgrounds, or
public landscaped areas and essential services, situated within an area
developed with recorded lots shall not exceed 8 feet in height, measured from
the surface of the ground, and shall not obstruct vision to an extent greater
than 25% of their total area; and
   (F)   All fences in any zoning district shall comply with the requirements
of the Building Code as it applied to fence installation and materials.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.09 ; Am. Ord. 09-182, passed 11-10-2009; Am.
Ord. 10-187, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 153.344 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT.
   In the AG, RF and RS Zoning Districts, only 1 principal single-family
residential dwelling unit shall be placed on a lot of record. This section
shall not be interpreted to prevent the construction of single-family detached
dwelling units on a parcel or zoning lot pursuant to the provisions of §
153.219(V) and (W), and §
153.237.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.10; Am. Ord. 167, passed 5-20-2008)
§ 153.345 LOT, HEIGHT, YARD PROJECTION, AND CORNER LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot area. In the determination of a lot area where a structure is to
be erected, altered, or used, no road right-of-way shall be included in the
computation of the required minimum lot area.
   (B)   Lot width. Width of a lot shall be as described in the definitions
section of this subchapter; provided, however, that the width of lots on cul-
de-sacs, eyebrows, and the radius of curves shall not be less than 80% of the
minimum required width.
   (C)   Height limitations. The limitations affecting the height of structures
shall not apply to the appurtenant appendages and structures such as parapet
walls not exceeding 3 feet in height, farm buildings, chimneys, smokestacks,
church spires, flagpoles, communication and water towers, masts and aerials,
public monuments, penthouse for mechanical equipment, and water tanks;
provided, however, the appendages and structures shall comply with all other
provisions of this or any other applicable section; and provided the Planning
Commission may specify a height limit for any like structure as a conditional
use permitted.
   (D)   Yard projections. All front, side, and rear yards shall be the minimum
distance measured from the principal structure to the respective front, side,
or rear lot line. All projections 3 feet or less in depth shall be excluded
from the measurement.
   (E)   Corner lots.
      (1)   For the purposes of determining setbacks as measured from the
right-of-way line, a corner lot shall maintain the minimum required front yard
setback on both road or street frontages.
      (2)   The required rear yard setback shall be applied to the yard
opposite of the building’s street address.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.11)
§ 153.346 CLEAR VISION ZONE.
   There shall be a clear vision zone at all corners of intersecting roads, or
road junctions, consisting of a triangular area defined by the point of
intersection of the right-of-way lines and the 2 points extended along the
lines a distance of 25 feet from the point of intersection, and within which
area no obstruction to vision, excluding existing topography shall be permitted
from a height of 2 feet to 8 feet above centerline elevation of abutting
streets except that not more than 2 trees with trunks of not more than 30
inches in diameter each, and clear of any branches for the heights may be
located within the area; provided, however, that this section shall not
prohibit the requirement of a greater clear vision area where it is necessary
in view of permitted traffic, anticipated traffic volumes, or geographic
conditions, as may be required by the Genesee County Road Commission.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.12)
§ 153.347 LOT GRADES.
   (A)   All structures shall be constructed or located with a ground elevation
so as to provide a sloping grade to cause the surface drainage to flow away
from the walls of the structures, while also not negatively affecting abutting
properties.
   (B)   Grades on any lot upon which new construction or earth movement is to
be carried out shall be related to existing grades and drainage systems so as
to provide adequate drainage and not jeopardize the existing drainage systems,
and shall be approved by the administrative official and other authorities
having jurisdiction over the system.
   (C)   No premises shall be filled or graded so as to discharge surface run-
off on adjoining premises in such a manner as to cause ponding or surface
accumulation of such run-off thereon. In instances where the final grade is
above that of any adjacent properties, it is the responsibility of the property
owner to construct swale ditches or provide other satisfactory means of
preventing surface water from draining onto adjacent properties.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.13; Am. Ord. 13-199, passed 2-19-2013)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.348 CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Curb cuts and driveways may be located only upon approval by the
Planning Commission and other county and state authorities as required by law;
provided, however, the approval shall not be given where the curb cuts and
driveways shall cause an unreasonable increase in traffic hazards.
   (B)   A clear vision zone shall be provided when driveways intersect with a
public right-of-way. The clear vision zone shall be measured in the following
manner.
   (C)   The triangular areas referred to above are:
      (1)   The area formed at the corner intersection of a public right-of-way
and a driveway, 2 sides of the triangle area being 10 feet in length measured
along the right-of-way line and driveway line and the third side being a line
connecting these 2 sides; and
      (2)   The area formed at a corner intersection of 2 public rights-of-way
lines, the 2 sides of the triangular area being 25 feet in length measured
along the abutting public rights-of-way lines and the third side being a line
connecting these 2 sides.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.14) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.349 RUMMAGE SALES PROHIBITED EXCEPT UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or organization to
conduct or operate a rummage sale, garage sale, yard sale, or basement sale in
the Charter Township of Montrose, unless all of the following conditions are
met:
   (A)   The sale shall be conducted only by the owners or occupants of the
premises on which the sale is located, or by a church, charitable organization
or service club with the written consent of the owners or occupants of the
premises;
   (B)   The sale shall be discontinued at the end of the eighth calendar day
following the date that the sale was commenced, regardless of whether or not
the sale was operated continuously or on consecutive days;
   (C)   No signs advertising the sale shall be left where posted upon
completion of sale, signs must have name and address of owners or occupants of
the premise on which sale is located;
   (D)   Not more than 2 like sales shall be conducted on any particular
premises in any calendar year; and
   (E)   No person, firm, corporation, or organization shall commence the sale
until a permit for same has been obtained from the Charter Township of Montrose
Clerk on forms provided by the township.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.15) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.350 OUTDOOR MERCHANDISING.
   No person or business shall use any area of a road right-of-way for
displaying for sale or storing of any goods or any other articles.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.16) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.351 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Temporary buildings and structures, including trailers, incidental to
construction work on a lot, may be placed on the lot, subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   Temporary buildings and structures may only be used for the storage of
construction materials, tools, supplies, and equipment, for construction
management and supervision offices, and for temporary on-site sanitation, solid
waste, or fuel facilities, related to construction activity on the same lot;
   (B)   The placement of temporary buildings and structures shall be in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter. A building permit for the
building or structure shall be issued by the administrative official prior to
installation; and
   (C)   Temporary buildings and structures shall be removed from the lot
within 15 days after an occupancy permit is issued by the Building
Administrator for the permanent structure on the lot, or within 15 days after
the expiration of a building permit issued for construction on the lot.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.17) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.352 TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of a structure which
meets all requirements of the Township Building Code and the other sections of
this chapter, except for the minimum width and foundation requirements, as
temporary living quarters if the structure is only used upon a lot while
construction is diligently pursued upon a primary residence on the lot which
residence meets all the requirements of the Township Building Code and this
chapter.
   (B)    Use of a structure as described in division (A) as temporary living
quarters shall be approved by the Planning Commission as a temporary use
permit.
      (1)   All health requirements affecting the provision of water and
sanitary sewer service must be complied with and approved by the administrative
official.
      (2)    A structure approved for use as a temporary living quarters shall
be installed or so placed in accordance with the building codes or the
manufacturers recommendations, and must be safely anchored to the ground in
compliance with the building codes or manufacturers recommendations.
      (3)   A use shall not continue for more than 1 year, unless an extension
of time not to exceed 90 days is granted by the Planning Commission upon a
finding of practical difficulty. Nothing in this section or this chapter shall
permit the occupation of a cellar without a complete residential structure
thereon sufficient to quality for the issuance of an occupancy permit, except
as otherwise specifically provided.
      (4)   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and "fifth wheels" may not
be used as temporary living quarters.
   (C)   When temporary living quarters are going to be used primarily for
assisted living care and so located on an existing occupied parcel of land, the
temporary living quarters shall be reviewed and approved in the same manner as
described in item (B) above, and shall comply with all of the requirements of §
153.336, Single-family dwelling requirements.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.18 ; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.353 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person owning land on which there is located a swimming
pool (below ground or above ground) which contains 24 inches or more of water
in depth at any point, shall erect and maintain a fence or enclosure approved
by the administrative official surrounding the pool sufficient to make the pool
inaccessible to small children.
      (2)   The fence or enclosure, including the gates, shall not be less than
4 feet or greater than 6 feet above grade.
      (3)   All gates shall be self-latching with latches placed on less than 4
feet above grade or otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to small
children.
   (B)   Swimming pools, 2 feet or less above grade at any point shall not be
located less than 4 feet from any lot line.
   (C)   Swimming pools, in excess of 2 feet above grade at any point shall not
be located less than 10 feet from any lot line.
   (D)   Swimming pools shall not be located in any front yard.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.19) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.354 APPROVAL OF TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   The Township Planning Commission shall review and approve all
temporary use permits provided, however, that the temporary use is first
determined by the Planning Commission as meeting the "standards for approval"
as provided for in division (B)(2) below.
   (B)   Temporary uses shall include, but not be limited to the following:
off-site tent sales, off-site produce stands, firework display stands,
firewood, or Christmas tree sales, pond excavations (for recreational use),
carnivals, temporary storage trailers, or storage yards.
      (1)   Application and submittal requirements. The application for a
temporary use permit shall be accompanied by plans and specifications including
a plot plan drawn to scale showing the following:
         (a)   The shape, location and dimensions of the lot, including the
shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures already on the
lot, off-street parking layout, and the location of any designated fire lanes;
         (b)   The materials to be utilized in and the shape, size, and
location of all buildings and structures to be erected or moved onto the lot;
         (c)   Prior to any approval the Planning Commission may request
information on the anticipated automobile traffic flow to and from the lot and
any adjacent thoroughfares, loss of off-street parking spaces, if any, as well
as the anticipated flow of pedestrian traffic to and from the lot; and
         (d)   Ten copies of the application, plans and specifications shall be
submitted along with an application fee, which shall be non-refundable. The
application fee shall be established by resolution of the Township Board.
      (2)   Standards for approval. A temporary use permit shall only be
granted if the Planning Commission determines that the proposed use, including
the erection of any temporary buildings or structures, will:
         (a)   Provide adequate light and ventilation between buildings and
structures;
         (b)   Provide adequate automobile and pedestrian traffic flow and
provide adequate off-street parking;
         (c)   Provide adequate lot access for fire protection purposes;
         (d)   Not adversely affect the stability and integrity of the zoning
plan prescribed by this chapter or otherwise interfere with the protection of
public health, safety, and general welfare;
         (e)   Not be incompatible with or otherwise adversely affect the
physical character of the community and, in particular, the surrounding area
within a distance of 500 feet; and
         (f)   When the proposed temporary use is to be conducted on an
otherwise vacant or unused lot, the use shall comply with all applicable zoning
regulations for the district in which the temporary special use is to be
located, including all requirements pertaining to lot size, height, setback,
open space ratio, maximum percentage of covered lot area, signs, and off-street
parking. In no instance shall signs, parking, buildings, produce, or other site
features occupy a public right-of-way.
      (3)   Pre-manufactured buildings. The Planning Commission may permit in
any residential district the temporary location of a pre-manufactured building
for a period that active construction is in progress, provided:
         (a)   The use shall be only for offices for the specific purpose of
selling lots or new homes to be erected in a new subdivision;
         (b)   The use shall be for temporary residential housing due to a fire
or other act of god. Notwithstanding these provisions, the Township Building
Official may, for a period not to exceed 30 days permit the establishment of
emergency housing facilities upon a finding that the housing shall be provided
in a safe and sanitary condition and shall comply with the applicable zoning
regulations for the district in which the temporary use is to be located,
including all requirements pertaining to setbacks, maximum percentage of lot
coverage and off-street parking;
         (c)   All applicable building height, bulk, and area requirements of
the district are met; and
         (d)   The structure shall be removed from the property upon completion
of the first permanently built model home intended for display, or the
completion of a renovation project and the issuance of an occupancy permit by
the Building Official, but in no case shall the pre-manufactured dwelling
remain beyond the time limitation specified above.
      (4)   Granting of permits. The Planning Commission, in granting permits
for temporary uses described in this section, shall do so under the following
conditions:
         (a)   The granting of the temporary use shall in no way constitute a
change in the basic uses permitted in the district, nor on the property wherein
the temporary use is permitted;
         (b)   The granting of the temporary use shall be granted in writing,
stipulating all conditions as to time, nature of development permitted and
arrangements for removing the use at the termination of the temporary permit;
         (c)   All setbacks, land coverage, off-street parking, signage,
lighting, and other requirements to be considered in protecting the public
health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, convenience, and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the township shall be made at the discretion of the Planning
Commission;
         (d)   The use shall be in harmony with the general character of the
area; and
         (e)   The Planning Commission may grant as an original condition the
authority to renew a temporary permit that might be annual in nature, such as
tent sales, sidewalk sales, firewood, or Christmas trees and other similar
uses, to the Building Official. The annual renewal must comply with all
conditions as first set by the Planning Commission. In the event that any of
the conditions as set by the Planning Commission have not been complied with,
or that a change has been made to an approved plan or that written complaints
of the temporary use have been received, renewal must be obtained through the
Planning Commission in the same manner as the original approval.
      (5)   Exemption. A temporary use that has been approved by the Township
Board, on township owned property would be exempt from any approval from the
Township Planning Commission.
      (6)   Notice.
         (a)   No temporary use permit shall be granted in an Agricultural or
Residential District without first giving notice to owners of adjacent
properties of the time and place of a public hearing to be held as provided for
in §
153.217 above.
         (b)   A temporary use that is annual in nature where the Planning
Commission has granted its renewal through the Building Official and is in
compliance with all approved conditions may not be subject to additional public
hearings as provided for in §
153.217 above.
         (c)   A public hearing would be required if written complaints have
been received, the site plan has changed, or there are any violations of the
conditions established by the Planning Commission.
      (7)   Review. The Planning Commission may seek the review and
recommendations of the Township’s Planning Consultant and/or Township Attorney
prior to approving any temporary use.
      (8)   Cash deposit. The Planning Commission may require a cash deposit
from the applicant for a temporary use to reimburse the township for any costs
incidental to the policing of the activity.
      (9)   Appeal. A decision on a temporary use by the Planning Commission
may be appealed directly to the township's Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.20; Am. Ord. 145, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
174, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord. 21-006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021)
§ 153.355 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE.
   (A)   The open parking or storage of trailers, boats or similar vehicles on
lands not specifically designated for the parking and storage shall be
permitted for a period of up to 24 hours.
   (B)    Homeowners or occupants of any residential dwelling unit of the
township may store their own trailer, boats, and similar vehicles on their own
property for an indefinite period of time under the following conditions:
      (1)   Vehicles are properly licensed and in operable condition;
      (2)   Vehicles are not stored in front of any livable space of a dwelling
unit, except where there exists an approved driveway and/or a property’s front
yard is located adjacent to an adjoining property’s rear yard; and
      (3)   Vehicles are not stored within any required setback areas.
   (C)   However, a homeowner may have a travel trailer, boat or similar
vehicle parked on a single- family lot for a period of up to 4 weeks provided a
permit has first been secured from the administrative official.
   (D)   A travel trailer parked or stored on a residential lot shall not be
connected to sanitary facilities and shall not be occupied on a continuous
basis.
   (E)   A mobile home shall not be considered a travel trailer, motor home, or
any other type of recreational vehicle.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.21; Am. Ord. 17-223, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 153.356 SCREENING OF TRASH STORAGE AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   In all Multiple-Family, Commercial and Industrial Districts
there shall be provided an outdoor trash storage area.
      (2)   Any like area shall be limited to normal refuse which is collected
on a regular basis and shall be maintained in a neat, orderly and sanitary
condition.
      (3)   The requirement for a like trash storage area may be waived by the
Planning Commission upon a finding that it is unnecessary due to the nature of
the use, or provisions for indoor trash storage.
   (B)   (1)   A screen wall of 6 feet in height shall enclose 3 sides of the
storage area.
      (2)   Bollards and/or other protective devices shall be installed at the
opening and to the rear of any storage area to prevent damage to the screening
walls.
      (3)   The surface under any like storage area shall be constructed of
concrete which complies with local building code requirements.
   (C)   In no instance shall any refuse be visible above the required
screening.
   (D)   (1)   Any like storage area shall be located in a rear yard and/or be
so located and arranged as to minimize its visibility from adjacent streets and
uses.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may require an obscuring gate when the
visibility of a storage area, from a public street or adjacent use, is deemed
to render an adverse influence.
      (3)   In no instance shall any like area be located in a front yard.
   (E)   All trash storage areas and/or enclosures shall be located a minimum
of 10 feet from any building or structure.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.23)
§ 153.357 ANTENNAS AND TOWERS AND SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS.
   Radio or television antennas or towers, including satellite dish antennas
and transmission or reception antennas erected or installed in any zoning
district shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   An antenna or tower, with the exception of a satellite dish antenna,
shall be located only in a side or rear yard. A satellite dish antenna shall be
located only in a rear yard;
   (B)   No portion of antenna, including a satellite dish antenna, shall be
located closer than 6 feet, measured on a horizontal plane, from any side or
rear lot line, or placed on any easement;
   (C)   Ground-mounted antenna, including satellite dish antennas, in a yard
fronting on a public street shall be screened from the street by landscaping or
a wall and the site approved by the Planning Commission, which shall require a
sketch plan indicating the location of the satellite dish and buildings, paved
areas and other appropriate site features within 100 feet of the proposed
location;
   (D)   The height of an antenna, with the exception of a satellite dish
antenna, shall not exceed 50 feet above mean grade or 10 feet above the peak of
the roofline, in any residential zoning district, and shall not exceed 100 feet
above mean grade in any other zoning district;
   (E)   The height of a satellite dish antenna, including any platform or
structure upon which the antenna is mounted, shall not exceed 15 feet in height
at its maximum point above mean grade;
   (F)   Notwithstanding the above, a satellite dish antenna having a diameter
of 24 inches or less may be attached to the roof of a building, provided that
no portion of the satellite dish antenna extends more than 36 inches above the
highest point of the roof; and
   (G)   The installation of an antenna, including satellite dish antenna,
shall require issuance of a building permit by the administrative official
prior to erection.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.24)
§ 153.358 ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Before any building permit shall be issued under the terms of this chapter,
the applicant shall obtain the endorsement in writing from the Genesee County
Health Department or the administrative official approving his or her plan for
any on-site sewage disposal system in accordance with the applicable
regulations of the Genesee County Sewage Disposal District No. 2 and 6.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.25)
§ 153.359 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Every building or structure hereafter erected or moved upon any
premises and used in whole, or in part, for dwelling, recreational, business,
commercial, or industrial purposes shall be provided with a safe, adequate, and
sanitary water supply. All plumbing work relating to the water supply system
shall conform to the standards of material and installations set forth by the
Michigan State Plumbing Code, a copy of which is on file in the Township
Clerk’s Office.
   (B)   Where a public water system is not available, each fixture from which
water for human consumption may be obtained shall be supplied from a system
which meets the minimum requirements of the State of Michigan, the Genesee
County Health Department and the Michigan State Department of Health.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.26) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.360 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   (1)   The minimum land area required for the housing and breeding of
livestock such as cattle, sheep, swine, goat, poultry, fowl, or rabbit that
equal 1 animal unit shall be 4 acres.
      (2)   No more than 1 animal unit of livestock may be kept on the minimum
land area of 4 acres. One additional animal unit of livestock may be kept on
each additional 1 acre of land.
   (B)   Adequate housing, pens and fencing shall be constructed before the
placement of livestock, poultry, fowl, or rabbits on a parcel of land.
   (C)   (1)   Parcels of land devoted to the housing or breeding of livestock,
poultry, fowl, or rabbits, shall not have: pens; corrals; or barns located
closer than 200 feet to any side property line or less than 150 feet to any
existing right-of-way.
      (2)   Further, the minimum side yard setback shall be reduced 1 foot for
each additional 2 feet that the pen, corral, or barn is setback from the
existing right-of-way over the required 150 feet.
      (3)   Further, that the side yard setback shall not be reduced below a
minimum of 50 feet.
   (D)   Livestock, poultry, fowl, or rabbits may be kept in any zoning
districts.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.27; Am. Ord. 115, passed 1-18-1999; Am. Ord.
132, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 153.361 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   This section shall be known and may be sited as the Charter Township of
Montrose Adult Entertainment Ordinance.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE.
         (a)   An establishment that has as a substantial portion of its stock-
in-trade and offers for sale, for any form of consideration, any 1 or more of
the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, movies, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
visual representations that are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction
or description of specified anatomical areas; and/or
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia designed for the use as
part of, or in connection with, specified sexual activities.
         (b)   A use which has a display containing books, magazines,
periodicals, slides, pictures, cassettes, or other printed or recorded material
which has a significant portion of its content or exhibit matter or actions
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas" or an establishment with a (substantial) segment
or section devoted to the sale or display of the material.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, theater, or other establishment which
features live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, "go-go"
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or other similar entertainers, where a
significant portion of the performances show, depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES.
         (a)   Any use of land, whether vacant or combined with structures,
vehicles or activities by which the property is devoted to the sale, display,
exhibition, or viewing of books, magazines, films, photographs or other
materials, distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to human sex act, or by an emphasis on male or female
genitals, buttocks, or female breasts.
         (b)   This shall include massage parlors, model studios and all forms
of video or aural display.
      ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatment or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
occurs as part of or in connection with "specified sexual activities" or where
any person providing the treatment, manipulation or service related thereto
exposes "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity
for less than 50 persons used for presenting material which has a significant
portion of any motion picture or other display depicting, describing or
presenting "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT MODEL STUDIO. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, figure models who display “specified anatomical areas” are provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or
similarly depicted by persons, paying the considerations or gratuities, except
that this provision shall not apply to any bona fide art school or similar
education institution.
      ADULT MOTEL. A motel wherein matter, actions or other displays are
presented which contain a significant portion depicting, describing, or
relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at any 1 time, and where a significant portion of images so displayed
depict, describe or relate to "specified sexual activities" or “specified
anatomical areas.”
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed budding with a capacity of 50
or more persons used for presenting material which has a significant portion of
any motion picture or other display depicting or relating to "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Any business, agency, or person who, for
any form of consideration or gratuity, provides a place where 3 or more
persons, not all members of the same family may congregate, assemble or
associate for the purpose of engaging in "specified sexual activities" or
exposing "specified anatomical areas."
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Specified anatomical areas means and included
any 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and/or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
         (b)   Human sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including but not limited to intercourse, oral copulation and sodomy;
         (c)   Human masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (d)   Human excretory functions as part of, or as related to, any of
the activities described above; and/or
         (e)   Physical violence, bondage, mutilation, or rape, actual or
simulated, as part or as related to, any of the activities described above.
      SUBSTANTIAL PORTION. A use or activity accounting for more than 20% of
any 1 or more of the following: stock-in-trade, display space, floor space, or
viewing time, movie display time, or entertainment time measured per month.
   (B)   License.
      (1)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no adult
bookstore, adult motion picture theater, or massage parlor, hereinafter
referred to as ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS, shall be operated or
maintained in the Township of Montrose without first obtaining a license to
operate issued by the Township of Montrose.
      (2)   A license may be issued only for 1 adult entertainment
establishment located at a fixed and certain place. Any person, partnership, or
corporation which desires to operate more than 1 adult entertainment
establishment must have a license for each.
      (3)   No license or interest in a license may be transferred to any
person, partnership, or corporation.
      (4)   All private schools and public schools located within the Township
of Montrose are exempt from obtaining a license hereunder when instructing
pupils in sex education as part of its curriculum.
   (C)   Application for license.
      (1)   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to secure a license
shall make application to the Township Clerk.
      (2)   The application shall be dated by the Township Clerk.
      (3)   A copy of the application shall be distributed promptly by the
Township Clerk to the Township of Montrose Police Department and to the
applicant.
      (4)   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
Township Clerk.
      (5)   An applicant for a license, which shall include all partners or
limited partners of a partnership applicant, and all officers and directors of
a corporate applicant and all stockholders including more than 5% of the stock
of a corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly in the
ownership or operation of the business, shall furnish the following information
under oath:
         (a)   Name and address, including all aliases;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Social security number;
         (d)   Michigan vehicle operator’s license number;
         (e)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
         (f)   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past 3 years;
         (g)   The applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
         (h)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for 5
years immediately preceding the date of application;
         (i)   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, township, or state under an adult entertainment establishment license
or similar business license; whether the applicant has ever had a like license
revoked or suspended, the reason therefore, and the business entity or trade
name under which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or
revocation;
         (j)   All criminal statute, whether federal or state, or township
ordinance violation convictions, forfeiture of bond or pleadings of nolo
contendere on all criminal charges, except minor traffic violations;
         (k)   Fingerprints and 2 portrait photographs at least 2 inches by 2
inches of the applicant;
         (l)   The address of the adult entertainment establishment to be
operated by the applicant; and
         (m)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall specify
the name of the corporation, the date and state of incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent and the name and address of all shareholders
owning more than 5% of the stock in the corporation and all officers and
directors of the corporation.
      (6)   Within 21 days of receiving an application for a license, the
Township Clerk shall notify the applicant whether application is granted or
denied.
      (7)   Whenever an application is denied, the Township Clerk shall advise
the applicant in writing of the reasons for the action.
      (8)   If the applicant requests a hearing within 10 days of receipt of
notification of denial a public hearing shall be held within 30 days thereafter
before the Township Board, as hereinafter provided.
      (9)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information
relevant to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or
failure to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath
regarding the application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with
any investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for the license and shall be grounds for
denial thereof by the Township Clerk.
   (D)   Standards for issuance of license.
      (1)   To receive a license to operate an adult entertainment
establishment, an applicant must meet the following standards:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual:
            1.   The applicant shall be at least 18 years of age;
            2.   The applicant shall not have been convicted of or pleaded nolo
contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity, or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within 5 years
immediately preceding the date of the application; and
            3.   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this chapter or a substantially similar ordinance within 5 years
immediately preceding the date of the application.
         (b)   If the applicant is a corporation:
            1.   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named
under division (C)(5) shall be at least 18 years of age;
            2.   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
division (C)(5) shall have been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a
felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity, or
other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within 5 years immediately
preceding the date of the application; and
            3.   No officer, director, or stockholder required to be named
under division (C)(5) shall have been found to have previously violated this
chapter or a substantially similar ordinance within 5 years immediately
preceding the date of the application.
         (c)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture, or any other
type of organization where 2 or more persons have a financial interest:
            1.   All persons having a financial interest in the partnership,
joint venture or other type of organization shall be at least 18 years of age;
and
            2.   No person having a financial interest in the partnership,
joint venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of or
pleaded nolo contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude,
prostitution, obscenity, or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction
within 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      (2)   No license shall be issued unless the Township of Montrose Police
Department has investigated the applicant’s qualifications to be licensed. The
results of that investigation shall be filed in writing with the Township Clerk
no later than 14 days after the date of the application.
   (E)   Fees. Fees are to be determined by the Charter Township of Montrose
Board.
   (F)   Display of license or permit. The license shall be displayed in a
conspicuous public place in the adult entertainment establishment.
   (G)   Renewal of license or permit.
      (1)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate at the
expiration of 1 year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and must
be renewed before operation is allowed in the following year.
      (2)   Any operator desiring to renew a license shall make application to
the Township Clerk.
      (3)   The application for renewal must be filed not later than 60 days
before the license expires.
      (4)   The application for renewal shall be filed in triplicate with and
dated by the Township Clerk.
      (5)   A copy of the application for renewal shall be distributed promptly
by the Township Clerk to the Township of Montrose Police Department and to the
business operator.
      (6)   The application for renewal shall be upon a form provided by the
Township Clerk and shall contain the information and data, given under oath or
affirmation, as is required for an application for a new license.
      (7)   A license renewal fee will be determined by the Charter Township of
Montrose Board.
      (8)   If the Township of Montrose Police Department is aware of any
information bearing on the operator’s qualifications, that information shall be
filed in writing with the Township Clerk.
   (H)   Revocation or suspension of license.
      (1)   The Township Board can revoke or suspend a license or permit for
any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Discovery that false or misleading information or data was given
on any application or material facts were omitted from any application;
         (b)   The operator or any employee of the operator has violated any
provision of this chapter of any rule or regulation adopted by the Township
Board pursuant to this chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first
offense by an operator where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the
penalty shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the Board shall find that
the operator had no actual or constructive knowledge of the violation and could
not by the exercise of due diligence have actual or constructive knowledge;
         (c)   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license or permit or
the operator is convicted of, or pleads nolo contendere to, any felony or any
crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a
sexual nature;
         (d)   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid;
         (e)   Any intoxicating liquor or cereal malt beverage is served or
consumed on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment; or
         (f)   The operator fails to maintain a special use permit for the site
as required by this chapter, or fails to comply with conditions of the special
use permit.
      (2)   The Board, before revoking or suspending any license or permit,
shall give the operator at least 10 day’s written notice of the charges against
him or her, and the opportunity for a public hearing before the Township Board,
as hereinafter provided.
         (a)   Before the Township Board revokes or suspends a license issued
herein the Township Board shall cause written notice to be sent by certified
mail to the licensee or applicant affected, at the address stated in the
license or application informing the person of the right to a hearing upon
request.
         (b)   If the licensee does not request a hearing within 14 days of the
date the notice was sent, the license may be forthwith revoked or suspended.
         (c)   If the licensee requests a hearing before the Township Board
regarding the proposed revocation or suspension, the hearing shall be held with
21 days after the date of the written request.
         (d)   Any license issued by the township may be immediately suspended
by the Township Supervisor or duly appointed township official if it is
determined that the licensee has violated or someone at or upon the licensed
location has violated the township ordinance or state law and that continued
operation under the license is contrary to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
         (e)   A licensee shall have the right to a hearing before the Township
Board on any license suspension by the Township Supervisor and notice thereof
shall be given in accordance with divisions (H)(2)(a) through (c).
         (f)   Both the township and the licensee shall be afforded a
reasonable opportunity to present evidence on the issue at the hearing.
         (g)   Action taken by the Township Board shall be final and any fees
hereunder shall not be refunded to the applicant or licensee.
      (3)   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license shall
automatically and immediately revoke the license.
      (4)   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to
receive a license for 1 year from the date of revocation.
      (5)   No location or premises for which a license has been issued shall
be used as an adult entertainment establishment for 6 months from the date of
revocation of the license.
   (I)   Physical layout of adult entertainment establishment. Any adult
entertainment establishment having available for customers, patrons or members,
any booth, room, or cubicle for the private viewing of any adult entertainment
must comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Access. Each booth, room or cubicle shall be totally accessible to
and from aisles and public areas of the adult entertainment establishment, and
shall be unobstructed by any door, lock, or other control-type devices.
      (2)   Construction. Every booth, room or cubicle shall meet with the
following construction requirements:
         (a)   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent
booths, rooms and cubicles and any non-public areas by a wall;
         (b)   Have at least 1 side totally open to a public lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view at all times of anyone occupying same;
         (c)   All walls shall be solid and without any openings, extended from
the floor to a height of not less than 6 feet and be fight colored, non-
absorbent, smooth textured, and easily cleanable;
         (d)   The floor must be light colored, non-absorbent, smooth textured
and easily cleanable; and
         (e)   The lighting level of each booth, room or cubicle, when not in
use shall be a minimum of 10 foot candles at all times, as measured from the
floor.
      (3)   Occupants.
         (a)   Only 1 individual shall occupy a booth, room, or cubicle at any
time.
         (b)   No occupant of same shall engage in any type of sexual activity,
cause any bodily discharge or fitter while in the booth.
         (c)   No individual shall damage or deface any portion of the booth.
   (J)   Responsibilities of the operator.
      (1)   The operator shall maintain a register of all employees, showing
the name and aliases used by the employee, home address, age, date of birth,
sex, height, weight, color of hair and eyes, phone numbers, social security
numbers, date of employment and termination, and duties of each employee. The
above information on each employee shall be maintained in the register on the
premises for a period of 3 years following termination.
      (2)   Daily hours of operation of any adult entertainment establishment
shall be limited to the period of time from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
      (3)   The operator shall make the register of employees available
immediately for inspection by police upon demand of a member of the Township of
Montrose Police Department at all reasonable times.
      (4)   No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or any areas where they can be
viewed from a public sidewalk adjacent to the establishment.
      (5)   Any individual viewing booths, entertainment rooms, or similar
cubicles designed or used for individuals to view specified anatomical areas or
to view specified sexual activities shall not be completely enclosed from the
common areas, hallways, or other areas of the adult entertainment business.
      (6)   No employee or patron under 18 years of age shall be allowed on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
      (7)   No intoxicating liquor or cereal malt beverage shall be served or
consumed on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
      (8)   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary
manner at all times.
      (9)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the
operator if the act or omission occurs either with the authorization,
knowledge, or approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator’s
negligent failure to supervise the employee’s conduct, and the operator shall
be punishable for the act or omission in the same manner as if the operator
committed the act or caused the omission.
      (10)   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the
operator for purposes of determining whether the operator’s license shall be
revoked, suspended or renewed.
      (11)   No employee of an adult entertainment establishment shall allow
any minor to loiter around or to frequent an adult entertainment establishment
or to allow any minor to view adult entertainment as defined herein.
      (12)   (a)   The operator shall maintain at least 10 foot candles of
light in the public portions of the establishment, including aisles, at all
times measured from the floor.
         (b)   However, if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall
be necessary to enable a patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth,
room or cubicle adjoining an aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be
maintained in the aisles, provided, however, at no time shall there be less
than 1 foot candle of illumination in the aisles, as measured from the floor.
      (13)   The operator shall ensure compliance of the establishment and its
patrons with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.28; Am. Ord. 116, passed 1-18-1999) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.362 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   This section shall be known and may be cited as the Charter Township of
Montrose Public Nudity Ordinance.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC NUDITY.
         (a)   Knowingly or intentionally displaying in a public place, or for
payment or promise of payment by a person including, but not limited to,
payment or promise of payment of an admission fee, any individual’s genitals or
anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or a female individual’s breasts
with less than a fully opaque covering of the nipple and areola.
         (b)   PUBLIC NUDITY does not include a woman’s breast-feeding of a
baby, whether or not the nipple or areola is exposed during or incidental to
feeding, material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984 § 2, being M.C.L.A. §
752.362, or sexually explicit visual material as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, § 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   (B)   Certain conduct prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall engage in public nudity.
      (2)   No business establishment, including, but not limited to owners,
officers, persons in charge of or control of the premises shall permit persons
to engage in public nudity.
   (C)   Aiding and abetting prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
assist, aid, abet or encourage any other person to appear nude in public.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.29; Am. Ord. 117, passed 1-18-1999) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.363 OBSCENITY.
   This section shall be known and may be cited as the Charter Township of
Montrose Obscenity Ordinance.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTEMPORARY COMMUNITY STANDARDS. The customary limits of candor and
decency in the Charter Township of Montrose at or near the time of the alleged
violation of this act.
      DISSEMINATE. To manufacture, sell, lend, rent, publish, exhibit, or lease
to the public for commercial gain or to offer or agree to manufacture, sell,
lend, rent, publish, exhibit, or lease to the public for commercial gain.
      KNOWLEDGE OF CONTENT AND CHARACTER.
         (a)   Having general knowledge of the nature and character of the
material involved.
         (b)   KNOWLEDGE OF CONTENT AND CHARACTER may be proven by direct
evidence or by circumstantial evidence, or both.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse prurient interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation,
sound, or in any other manner, including but not limited to, anything printed
or written, any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, picture, drawing,
pictorial representation, motion picture, photograph, video tape, video disk,
film, transparency, slide, audiotape, audio disk, computer tape, or any other
medium used to electronically produce or reproduce images on a screen, or any
mechanical, chemical, or electronic reproduction.
         (b)   MATERIAL includes undeveloped photographs, molds, printing
plates, and other latent representational objects whether or not processing or
other acts are required to make the content of the material apparent.
      OBSCENE. Any material that meets all of the following criteria:
         (a)   The average individual, applying contemporary community
standards, would find the material, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest;
         (b)   The reasonable person would find the material, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value; and
         (c)   The material depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way.
   (B)   Violations. A person is guilty of obscenity when, knowing the content
and character of the material, the person disseminates, or possess with intent
to disseminate, any obscene material.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.30; Am. Ord. 118, passed 3-15-1999) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.364 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the safe use of
wind energy conversion systems that are designed to reduce the on-site
consumption of utility-supplied electricity by establishing regulations on the
sitting, design, and installation of energy conversion systems so that the
public health, safety, and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants
will not be jeopardized. This section applies to all wind energy conversion
systems constructed and operated in the township whether or not the system is
capable of feeding produced energy into the local utility grid. In no case
shall the provisions of this section guarantee the wind rights or establish
access to the wind.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SHADOW FLICKER. The phenomenon created by light casting a shadow on
moving turbine blades; where this shadow is cast creates a potential annoyance
to adjoining property owners.
      TOWER. The vertical component of a wind energy system, whether guyed or
freestanding, for the exclusive purpose of elevating the wind turbine/generator
and attached blades or rotors above the ground. The term TOWER may also refer
to the structure that elevates a wind anemometer for the purpose of feasibility
studies preliminary to the placement of a wind energy conversion system (WECS).
      TOWER HEIGHT. The height above grade to a blade tip at its highest point
of travel.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS). Any device which converts wind
energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator and
includes a rotor, a generator or alternator mounted on a frame, a tail, a
tower, wiring, and the “balance of system” components such as controllers,
inverters, and/or batteries.
      (1)   PRIVATE WECS. Any WECS that is accessory to a principal use located
on the same lot and is designed and built to serve the needs of the principal
use.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL WECS. Any WECS that is designed and built to provide
electricity to the electric utility's power grid.
   (C)   Review and approval requirements. 
      (1)   Wind energy conversion systems may be permitted as a special land
use in all zoning districts and shall be reviewed and approved in compliance
with §§
153.215 through
153.218 in all zoning districts as listed in the Code of Ordinances, provided
that they conform to the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Exceptions: a special land use permit is not necessary for a
proposed private WECS when the WECS is designed and built to serve the needs of
the principal use and when the height does not exceed the maximum building
height as listed in the schedule of regulations by zoning districts.
         (a)   A review by the Building Official for compliance with all other
regulations listed below shall be required. Prior to the issuance of a
construction permit for a private WECS by the Building Official a notice shall
be mailed to all adjoining property owners to receive public comments.
         (b)   In the event that a WECS review is denied by the Building
Official, an appeal may be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals. If the
official's decision is upheld, appeal may be taken to the Circuit Court for the
County of Genesee.
      (3)   All applications for a WECS special land use approvals shall be
submitted to the Building Official with an application as provided for by the
township, accompanied with the required application fees, a detail site plan
drawn to scale and dimensioned, and displaying all of the following
information.
         (a)   All lot lines dimensions, including a legal description.
         (b)   Distances between existing and proposed setbacks for the WECS
from all property lines and from all structures located on the property where
the WECS will be located and for all structures located off-site within 300
feet of the exterior property lines where the WECS will be located.
         (c)   The location and height of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures, electrical lines, towers, guy wires and guy wire anchors, and
security fencing.
         (d)   Location and height of all adjacent buildings, structures, and
above ground utilities located within 300 feet of the exterior property lines
of the lot or parcel where a proposed WECS will be located.
         (e)   An elevation drawing of the proposed WECS.
         (f)   Planned security measures to prevent unauthorized access to the
proposed WECS.
         (g)   Show any access driveway or road to the proposed WECS.
         (h)   Any additional details and or information as required by the
special use requirements of this section, or as requested by the Planning
Commission and or Building Official.
      (4)   The safety of the design of all WECS towers shall be certified by a
professional engineer registered in the state. A copy of the manufacturer’s
installation instructions, standard for certification, and blueprints shall be
provided to the Building Official prior to the issuance of a building permit.
Included as part of or as an attachment to the installation instructions shall
be standard drawings, including base and footing details, along with
engineering data and calculations to demonstrate compliance with the structural
design provisions of the Building Code.
      (5)   All electrical compartments, storage facilities, wire conduit, and
interconnections with utility companies shall conform to state and local
electrical codes. All ground-mounted electrical and control equipment shall be
labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized access.
      (6)   Only 1 WECS shall be located on each parcel of record within the
township. The Planning Commission may wave this provision for clusters of 2 or
more WECS, commonly known as wind farms, when used for commercial purposes.
Said WECS may or may not be owned by the owner of the property upon which the
WECS is located or placed.
      (7)   The maximum height of a private WECS shall be 35 feet to the top of
the blade at the maximum vertical position. The maximum height of a commercial
WECS shall be 50 feet to the top of the blade at the maximum vertical position.
The Planning Commission may wave the height requirement where it can be shown
that there is a need to exceed the height limits to obtain necessary wind speed
required for a WECS.
      (8)   Setbacks to the base of the tower shall be no less than 1-1/2 times
the total height of the proposed WECS. Guy wire anchors if used may be no
closer than 10 feet from any property boundary.
      (9)   Guy wires associated with the installation of any WECS shall be
marked and clearly visible to a height of 8 feet above the ground or completed
enclosed by a fence with a minimum height of 4 feet.
      (10)   The minimum blade or rotor clearance above the ground shall be 20
feet, with a minimum of 75 feet of clearance over and from any structure,
adjoining property, or tree.
      (11)   The WECS tower shall not be lighted, except due to any applicable
FAA regulations, and shall not be used for the placement of any antennas or
other purpose not related directly to the support of a wind turbine.
      (12)   The WECS tower shall be designed and installed so as not to
provide a ladder or other publicly accessible means of climbing the tower, for
a minimum height of 12 feet above the ground, or enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least 10 feet high with barbed wire placed along the top of
the fence.
      (13)   All WECS must be equipped with manual and automatic over speed
controls to limit the blade speed to the engineered design limits of the
installation.
      (14)   Noise level associated with a wind energy installation shall be
limited to a maximum of 55 decibels as measured at the property line nearest
the tower.
      (15)   The WECS tower and turbine placement shall be such that the shadow
flicker does not interfere with adjoining property owners.
      (16)   A WECS shall not contain advertising, except manufacturing labels
pre-attached and less than 1 square foot in size, and the tower shall be
painted a neutral color rendering the WECS visually inconspicuous.
      (17)   A WECS that is not functional for a period of 12 consecutive
months shall be promptly removed by the owner.
   (D)   Repeal. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of
this section is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, any such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The
township hereby declares that it would have passed this section and each
section, subsection, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, and phrases be
declared unconstitutional.
   (E)   Saving clause. Nothing in this section or in the code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court or
administrative body, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any
cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance
hereby repealed by this section; nor any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired, or affected by this section.
   (F)   Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, phrase, or portion
of this section is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
and independent portion of this section, and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this section.
(Ord. 10-188, passed 10-19-2010; Am. Ord. 21-006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-
2021)
§ 153.365 COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   Authorization.
      (1)   Changing technology in the field of communications has resulted in
reliance upon more versatile convenient forms of communication.
      (2)   Businesses, individuals and government have all developed a strong
dependence upon the ability to quickly contact others.
      (3)   The uses of radios and cellular phones have proven themselves over
and over again in emergency situations.
   (B)   Qualifying conditions. The following site and developmental
requirements shall apply:
      (1)   A minimum site of 1 acre;
      (2)   A special land use permit issued by the Planning Commission is
required;
      (3)   The applicant will be required to provide an existing cell coverage
map, a proposed cell coverage map, and map of existing towers within at least a
mile of the proposed site. The maps will assist in identification of "holes" in
their coverage and therefore allow the township and the applicant to locate the
tower on or near the most appropriate site in order to minimize their gap in
coverage;
      (4)   Communication towers are allowed under prioritized locations:
         (a)   First:
            1.   Co-location; and
            2.   Township property.
         (b)   Second:
            1.   Industrial; and
            2.   Commercial.
         (c)   Third:
            1.   Agriculture;
            2.   Residential farm; and
            3.   Residential suburban.
      (5)   The base of the tower and wire cable supports shall be fenced with
a minimum 6-foot high fence.
   (C)   Special performance standards.
      (1)   The tower must be setback from all property lines a distance equal
to its height, unless engineering plans and specifications have been verified
by the township engineer that the structural integrity of the tower will
withstand high winds and impacts, and the likelihood of a tower failure is
minimal. The applicant shall incur all cost associated with township
engineering review.
      (2)   Accessory structures are limited to uses associated with the
operation of the tower and may not be located any closer to front or side
property lines than 30 feet.
      (3)   All towers shall be equipped with an anti-climbing device to
prevent unauthorized access.
      (4)   The plans of the tower construction shall be certified by a
registered structural engineer.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide verification that the antennas mount
and structure have been reviewed and approved by a professional engineer and
that the installation is in compliance with all applicable codes.
      (6)   All towers must meet the standards of the Federal Aviation
Administration and the Federal Communications Commission.
      (7)   Communication towers in excess of 100 feet in height above grade
level shall be prohibited within a 2-mile radius of a public airport or a one-
half-mile radius of a helipad.
      (8)   No part of any tower or antenna shall be constructed, located or
maintained at any time, permanently or temporarily, on or upon any required
setback area for the district in which the antenna or tower is to be located.
In no case shall a tower or antenna be located. In no case shall a tower or
antenna be located within 30 feet of a front or side property line.
      (9)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive-
resistant material.
      (10)   Antennae and metal towers shall be grounded for protection against
a direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to electrical wiring and
connections will all applicable local statutes, regulations and standards.
      (11)   Towers with antennae shall be designed to withstand a uniform wind
loading as prescribed in the building code.
      (12)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least 8 feet above the ground at all
points, unless buried underground.
      (13)   Towers shall be located so that they do not interfere with
television or radio reception in nearby residential areas.
      (14)   Towers shall be located so there is room for vehicles doing
maintenance to maneuver on the property owned and or leased by the applicant.
      (15)   Towers shall not be artificially lighted unless required by the
Federal Aviation Administration.
      (16)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum
extent practicable.
      (17)   There shall not be displayed advertising or identification of any
kind intended to be visible form the ground or other structures, except as
required for emergency purposes.
      (18)    Structures shall be subject to any state and federal regulations
concerning non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation. If more restrictive state or
federal standards are adopted in the future, the antenna shall be made to
conform to the extent required by the standard of the special use; approval
will be subject to revocation by the Planning Commission. Cost for testing and
verification of compliance shall be borne by the operator of the antenna.
      (19)   There shall be no employees located on the site on a permanent
basis to service or maintain the antenna. Occasional or temporary repair and
service activities are excluded from this restriction.
      (20)   The tower shall be removed by the property owner or lessee within
6 months of being abandoned.
      (21)   Co-location required:
         (a)   Newly constructed towers shall have 3 times the capacity of
intended use in order that secondary users could leave the balance of the tower
capacity at a reasonable rate;
         (b)   The applicant must include a statement in the application and an
affidavit stating space on a proposed tower will be made available to future
users when technically possible; and
         (c)   The applicant shall send a written notice via certified mail to
all potential users of the new communication tower offering an opportunity for
co-location.
            1.   The list of potential users shall be provided by the township
based on those entities who have requested approval of communication towers in
the past, current FCC license holders, and any other entities requesting to be
included on the list.
            2.   Copies of the notice letters are sent to potential users, a
user or user’s request, in writing, to co-locate on the new communication
tower, the applicant shall accommodate the request(s), unless co-location is
not reasonable possible based on the criteria of this division.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.32; Am. Ord. 129, passed 5-15-2001 ; Am. Ord.
174, passed 11-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.366 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   While the township recognizes that many residents feel the necessity to work
out of their home, the township also recognizes the rights of all residents to
be free from actual or potential nuisance which may be caused by non-
residential activities conducted in a residential zoning district. The intent
of this section and requirements are to ensure that any home occupation is
compatible with other permitted uses in residential districts and to maintain
and preserve the residential character of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (A)   A home occupation permit may be granted by the Planning Commission
within a single-family residential dwelling unit as a special land use when a
home occupations application, provided on forms by the township, has been
submitted and all of the conditions of this ordinance are agreed to. The
Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing in compliance with the
township’s public hearing notification requirements of §
153.427, prior to approving a home occupation permit.
   (B)   The following are permitted home occupations provided they meet all of
the standards listed in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Dressmaking, sewing and tailoring.
      (2)   Painting, sculpturing or writing.
      (3)   Telephone answering or telemarketing.
      (4)   Barber/hairdresser (one per household)
      (5)   Crafts and fine arts.
      (6)   Tutoring, limited to not more than 2 students at a time.
      (7)   Computer programing.
      (8)   Home office of a professional person that meets all the standards
listed in division (C) of this section.
      (9)   Repairing of clocks, instruments or other small appliances.
      (10)   Other similar home occupations as determined by the Planning
Commission.
      (11)   Home Care Centers subject to the regulations set forth in §§
153.367 et seq.
   (C)   A home occupation may be permitted following a determination by the
Planning Commission that the proposed occupation complies with all of the
following standards.
      (1)   Home occupations shall be limited to the applicant and other family
members who legally reside in the residence.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% or 400 square feet, whichever is greater of
the total first floor area of the dwelling unit (exclusive of an attached
garage, breezeway, and enclosed or unenclosed porches) shall be used for the
purposes of the home occupation and the home occupation shall be carried out
completely within such dwelling. No accessory building (attached or detached)
shall be used in the home occupation, except for the parking or storage of
equipment that might be used in the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the structure
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than 1 sign not exceeding 2 square feet in area, non-illuminated and
mounted flat against the wall of the dwelling.
      (4)   The outdoor storage of goods, equipment, and materials shall be
prohibited.
      (5)   No equipment or process shall be used in said home occupation which
would constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining residents by reason of
noise, dust, glare, heat, smoke, fumes, odor, vibrations or electrical
disturbances. There shall be no discharge of polluting materials, fluids, or
gases into the ground or surface water, soil or atmosphere.
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood. Any need
for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be provided
by an off-street parking area, located in other than in a required front or
side yard setback area.
      (7)   The home occupation shall not entail deliveries to or transmitted
from the home or property in connection with the home occupation other than
those items which are routinely handled by the U.S. Postal Service, United
Parcel Service (UPS), Federal Express or similar service.
      (8)   There shall be no sale of any goods manufactured elsewhere in
connection with such home occupation. No interior displays shall be visible
from the exterior of a dwelling unit used for the purposes of a home
occupation.
      (9)   The home occupation shall not be open to the public earlier than 8:
00 a.m. or later than 8:00 p.m.
      (10)   No more than 1 home occupation per dwelling unit shall be
permitted.
   (D)   The following uses shall not be permitted as part of a home
occupation:
      (1)   Repair, maintenance, painting, selling and storage of automobiles,
machinery, trucks, boats, recreational vehicles and other similar items.
      (2)   Antique shops.
      (3)   Any business with employees or volunteers.
      (4)   Rooming houses.
      (5)   Private clubs.
      (6)   Commercial kennels.
      (7)   Eating or drinking establishments
   (E)   No home occupation may be carried out without a valid permit issued by
the Building Official. Home occupations approved by the Planning Commission
shall be renewed annually through the Building Department after review of same.
In the event that the township receives a written and signed complaint
regarding a specific home occupation, a public hearing and approval by the
Planning Commission shall be required prior to any renewal being issued.
   (F)   Any property owner or occupant who has previously been granted a home
occupation permit by the township, and has in fact conducted the approved home
occupation in the twelve month period preceding adoption of this section, may
continue to conduct the home occupation as previously approved. The home
occupation shall be reviewed for renewal in accordance with the provisions of
division (E) of this section.
   (G)   A home occupation permit shall not be transferable or assignable upon
sale or other change in ownership of the land upon which the home occupation is
conducted. The home occupation permit shall terminate when the person
conducting the home occupation for which the permit was issued ceases to occupy
the premises.
   (H)   The use of a home address as a business address or the use of a home
phone as a business phone for the sole purpose of meeting state or federal
licensing requirements, with no business activity conducted at the home or on
the property, is not considered to be a home occupation and is exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (I)   Renewal; fees; revocation.
      (1)   There shall be an annual renewal fee for all home occupations.
      (2)   This fee shall be due each year on January 1 and shall be received
by the township through January 31 of the same year without penalty.
      (3)   The fee for renewal shall initially be set at $25 when paid prior
to January 31. If the renewal fee is received by the township February 1
through the last day of February of the year due, the fee shall be increased to
$50.
      (4)   If the home occupation permit is granted on or after July 1, the
permit shall be good for the remainder of that year plus one year and no
renewal shall be necessary that first January 1 date.
      (5)   If the renewal fee is not paid prior to March 1 of each year, the
home occupation permit shall be revoked without further notice.
      (6)   When a public hearing is required before the Planning Commission,
there is a $200 fee in addition to the annual renewal fee.
      (7)   These fees may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board.
(Ord. 158, passed 7-17-2007, § 22.33; Am. Ord. 13-207, passed 1-21-2014; Am.
Ord. 21-001-153.366, passed 6-15-2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.367 PRIMARY CAREGIVER HOME OCCUPATIONS (PCHO).
   The regulations set forth in this section are designed to regulate and
control, but not to exclude, the growing, consumption, distribution, and
delivery of medical marihuana in a manner that protects the rights of those
authorized to do so under the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq., as amended, by providing qualifying patients safe access to
medicine, and to protect the health, safety and welfare of all resident of the
township.
   (A)   PRIMARY CAREGIVER means an individual or enterprise registered with
the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services under the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, initiated Law 1 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq., to
assist with a qualifying patient's use of medical marihuana through growing and
provisioning. Except for a primary caregiver who produces and provides
medicinal marihuana only for the primary caregiver and qualifying patients
lawfully residing with the primary caregiver at the residence where the
medicinal marihuana is produced, the production and providing of medicinal
marihuana shall be considered a home occupation.
   (B)   The operation of a PCHO in the Charter Township of Montrose is
permitted in all zoning districts where there exists a primary resident. The
principal use of the dwelling unit where a home care center may be located must
be residential and must be in actual use as such.
   (C)   Only 1 PCHO shall be allowed per parcel of record within the Charter
Township of Montrose.
   (D)   PCHO are prohibited in both the MHP - Mobile Home/Manufacturer Home
Park and RC - Recreation/Conservation zoning districts. PCHO are also
prohibited on property described in a condominium master deed or planned unit
development.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of a permit for a PCHO, the Township Building
Official and/or Michigan State Electrical, Mechanical and or Plumbing Official,
whichever is deemed necessary by the Township Building Official, must conduct
an inspection confirming that the primary residence, the electrical system, and
the plumbing system used to facilitate the growth or cultivation of medical
marihuana plants complies with all applicable construction codes adopted by the
township.
   (F)   PCHOs must be operated in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   All primary caregivers shall comply with the MMMA (Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, P.A. 2008, Initiated Law 1, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.,
including, M.C.L.A. § 333.26423(d) and meet the rules established by the
Marihuana Regulatory Agency. Activity authorized under the Michigan Regulation
and Taxation of Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., shall not be
subject to the requirements of this section.
      (2)   A PCHO is not permitted to install any exterior or interior window
signs, billboard or other advertisement for any purpose.
      (3)   The use of the dwelling unit for the operation of a home care
center for the growing, cultivation and storage of medical marihuana shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% or 400 square feet, whichever is greater of
the total first floor area of the dwelling unit (exclusive of an attached
garage, breezeway, and enclosed or unenclosed porches) shall be used for the
purpose of the home care center.
      (4)   Primary caregiver home occupation activities conducted in an
accessory structure shall not be included in the floor area limitation stated
in the division (3) above, but shall be subject to a separate limitation of the
lesser of 750 square feet or 50% of the floor area of the accessory structure
in which the activity is conducted. The accessory structure shall have a roof
system and be built with construction material approved by the Building
Official. No fencing or fence screening materials are permitted.
      (5)   There shall be no on-site person-to-person transfers of medical
marihuana on the premises of a PCHO by a primary caregiver where the PCHO is
located in a residential zone; however, a primary caregiver may deliver medical
marihuana to the primary residence of his or her registered qualifying
patients.
      (6)   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, artificial
light noticeable at or beyond the property lines are permitted.
      (7)   All medical marihuana plants must be contained in an enclosed,
locked facility.
      (8)   No medical marihuana plants contained in an accessory structure
that is located outside of a primary residence shall be located within 1,000
feet from any school, library, church, or playground area.
      (9)   When a PCHO is located within 1,000 feet from the property of any
school, library, church, or playground area, there shall be no outside usage of
any kind of medical marihuana within the sight of children under the age of 18
years old.
      (10)   The holder of the primary caregiver license shall renew their
permit on an annual basis in compliance with the home occupation guidelines.
This will ensure all information is accurate and up to date for each PCHO.
      (11)   The location of primary caregiver home occupations shall be kept
on private record with the township and shall not be accessible through
requests that cite the Freedom of Information Act, pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§
15.261 et seq.
      (12)   When deemed reasonably necessary to effective enforcement of this
section, the building inspector, code enforcement officer, and police personnel
may conduct inspections of the property where a primary caregiver home
occupation is conducted to ensure all operations are compliant with this
chapter and applicable local and state laws. Inspection shall be at the time
the home occupation is first established, as part of the annual renewal, and if
there is reasonable cause to believe the home occupation is not in compliance
with this section or other applicable laws.
   (G)   If an application for a primary caregiver home occupation permit is
denied, the applicant may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 13-206, passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-007-153.367, passed 11-9-2021)
Penalty, see §
153.999
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES,
AND USES OF LAND AND STRUCTURES
§ 153.380 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit legal nonconforming
lots, structures, or uses to continue until they are removed but not to
encourage their survival.
   (B)   It is recognized that there exists within the districts established by
this chapter and subsequent amendments, lots, structures, and uses of land and
structures which where lawful before this chapter was passed or amended which
would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter
or future amendments.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begin prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on.
   (D)   ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner, except that where demolition or removal of an existing building has
been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, the demolition or removal
shall be deemed to be ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION, provided that work shall be
diligently carried on until completion of the building involved.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.01)
§ 153.381 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter.
   (B)   This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   (C)   Yard requirement variances may be obtained through approval of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.02)
§ 153.382 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter,
lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of
this chapter as enacted or amended, the use may be continued, so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any other
portion of the lot or parcel occupied by the use at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   No nonconforming use shall be expanded by the addition of
products or services which were not part of the use being engaged in at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   The addition of uses or activities which were not part of the prior
use, even though the uses or activities were permitted in the prior zoning
district, constitutes an expansion of a nonconforming use which is prohibited
by this chapter.
   (D)   If the nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of
more than 1 year, any subsequent use of the land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which the land is
located.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.03; Am. Ord. 119, passed 5-17-1999) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.383 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or
other characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, the
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   (A)   No like structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity;
   (B)   Should the structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 65% of its replacement costs, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be
reconstructed only in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, provided
that the restoration or repairing shall have commenced and is diligently
prosecuted within 1 year after the date of destruction;
   (C)   Non-conforming single-family residential structures are exempt from
this section; however, application for rebuilding shall be made within 1 year
from the date of damage or destruction; and
   (D)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is removed.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.04; Am. Ord. 125, passed 10-18-1999) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.384 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and land in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that
would not be permitted in the district under the terms of this chapter, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   (1)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for the use, and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no like use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside the building.
      (2)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and land in combination, may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or a more restricted classification provided that
the Planning Commission, either by general rule or by specific case, shall find
that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the
district than the existing nonconforming use.
   (C)   (1)   In permitting the change, the Planning Commission may require
conditions and safeguards in accord with the purpose and intent of this
chapter.
      (2)   Where a nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and
land in combination is hereafter changed to a more conforming use, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a less conforming use.
      (3)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which the structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
   (D)   (1)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land
in combination, is discontinued or ceases to exist for 6 consecutive months or
for 18 months during any 3-year period, the structure, or structure and land in
combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   Structures occupied by seasonal uses shall be exempted from this
provision.
   (E)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.05 ; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007 )
§ 153.385 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or
on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing or
for exterior aesthetic improvements to an extent not exceeding 50% of the
assessed value of the building, provided that the cubic content of the building
as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be
increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
the official.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.06)
§ 153.386 SPECIAL LAND USES NOT NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any special land use which is permitted as provided in this chapter shall
not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall, without further action, be deemed
a conforming use in the district.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.07; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007 )
§ 153.387 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership or management of any existing
nonconforming uses of land, structures and land in combination.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 23.08)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.400 ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals as authorized by
Public Act 12 of 2008, as amended.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of 7 members appointed by a
majority vote of the members of the Township Board.
      (1)   One member shall be a member of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   One member shall be a member of the Township Board.
      (3)   The remaining regular (5) members, and any alternate (2) members
shall be electors of the township who shall reside within the township.
   (C)   Members selected to serve on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
representative of the population distribution and of various interests present
in the township.
   (D)   Each member shall be appointed for a term of 3 years, except that the
term of office of the members who are also members of the Township Board or
Planning Commission shall terminate if their membership on the Township Board
or Planning Commission terminates.
   (E)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, and Secretary. The Township Board member may not serve as
Chairperson.
   (F)   The Township Board may appoint 2 alternate members for the same term
as regular members to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (G)   An alternate member may be called, as specified in the Zoning
Ordinance, to sit as a regular member of the Zoning Board of Appeals in the
absence of a regular member, if a regular member is absent from or unable to
attend 1 or more meetings.
   (H)   An alternate member may also be called to serve in the place of a
regular member for the purpose of reaching a decision of a case in which the
regular member for the Board has abstained for reason of conflict of interest.
   (I)   Having been appointed, the alternate member shall serve in the case
until a final decision has been made.
   (J)   The alternate member shall have the same voting rights as a regular
member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (K)   A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be paid a reasonable per
diem as established and approved by the Township Board.
   (L)   A member shall disqualify himself or herself from a vote in which the
member has a conflict of interest. A member’s failure to disqualify himself or
herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of interest constitutes
malfeasance in office.
   (M)   Upon written charges and after a public hearing, a member of the
Zoning Board of Appeals may be removed by the Township Board for misfeasance,
malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office.
   (N)   A vacancy on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 24.01; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007; Am. Ord.
174, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 153.401 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not conduct business unless a
majority of its regular members are present.
   (B)   An appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by an officer, department, township board or bureau of the State
of Michigan.
   (C)   All appeals must be applied for in writing, on forms provided by the
township. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall give notice of the hearing to the
parties involved.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall also give notice to owners and
occupants of property as required by §153.427.
   (E)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall state the grounds of any
determination made by the Board, including listing all conditions.
   (F)   At a hearing a party may appear personally or by agent or attorney.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 24.02; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007; Am. Ord.
174, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 153.402 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following specified powers and
duties.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
by the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit,
decision, or refusal made by the administrative official or any other
administrative official in carrying out, or enforcing, any provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Interpretation. To hear and decide in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter:
      (1)   Appeals for the interpretation of the provisions of this chapter;
and
      (2)   Requests to determine the precise location of the boundary lines
between the zoning districts as they are displayed on the zoning map, when
there is dissatisfaction with the decision on the subject.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to authorize
use variances and dimensional (non-use) variances from such requirements as lot
area and width regulations, building height and square foot regulations, yard
width and depth regulations; such requirements as off-street parking and
loading space, and sign regulations; and other similar requirements as
specified in this chapter.
         (b)   To obtain a variance, the applicant must submit an affidavit
indicating that the standards for either a "practical difficulty" or
"unnecessary hardship" exist, as described below.
      (2)   Dimensional or non-use variances.
         (a)   To authorize, upon an appeal, a variance from the strict
application of the provisions of this chapter where by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness, shape or area of a specific piece of property at the
time of enactment of this chapter or by reason of exceptional topographic
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional conditions of such property,
the strict application of the regulations enacted would result in peculiar or
exceptional practical difficulties upon the owner of such property; provided
such relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter.
         (b)   In granting a dimensional variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals
may attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character, and other
features of the proposed use as it may deem reasonable in furtherance of the
purpose of this chapter. A dimensional variance shall not be granted unless all
of the following standards are met:
            1.   Special conditions and circumstances exist that are unique to
the land, structures, or buildings involved, and are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
            2.   The special conditions and circumstances on which the variance
request is based do not result from the actions of the applicant;
            3.   Literal interpretation of this chapter would deprive the
applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other property owners in the same
district under the terms of this chapter;
            4.   Granting the variance requested would not confer upon the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district;
            5.   The existence of non-conforming uses of neighboring lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district; permitted or non-conforming uses
of land, structures, or buildings in other districts; and non-conforming
structures shall not be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance;
            6.   A variance granted shall be the minimum that will make
possible a reasonable use of the land, building, or structure; and
            7.   The variance granted shall be in harmony with the intent of
this chapter and will not be injurious to the environment, neighborhood, or
otherwise detrimental to the public interest.
      (3)   Use variances.
         (a)   To authorize, upon an appeal, a variance for a specific use of
land that is not otherwise permitted in the district in which the property is
located where the strict application of the regulations enacted would result in
an unnecessary hardship upon the owner of such property.
         (b)   In granting a use variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals may
attach thereto such conditions regarding the location, character, and other
features of the proposed use as it may deem reasonable in the furtherance of
the purpose of this chapter.
         (c)   A use variance shall not be granted unless all the following
standards have been met:
            1.   The property cannot reasonably be put to a conforming use
(i.e., that the property cannot yield a reasonable economic return if it is
used in strict compliance with this chapter);
            2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances of the
property and not to general neighborhood conditions which may reflect the
unreasonableness of the zoning itself;
            3.   The use to be authorized will not alter the essential
character of the locality;
            4.   The problem is not self-created; and
            5.   A variance granted shall be the minimum that will make
possible a reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not approve an application for a
variance unless it has found positively that a practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship exists under the preceding criteria.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 24.03; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008; Am. Ord.
21-006-153.006 et seq., passed 10-19-2021)
§ 153.403 DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may require the applicant to provide such
additional information as is necessary to make a decision.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly,
or modify the order, requirement, decision or determination, and may direct the
issuance of a permit.
   (C)   In making a decision, the Zoning Board of Appeals may impose such
conditions as it may deem necessary to comply with the spirit and purpose of
this chapter.
   (D)   No variance may be granted or decision overruled unless at least 4
members vote in favor thereof.
   (E)   A variance shall expire 12 months from the date it is granted, unless
a building permit has been acquired and construction undertaken pursuant to the
variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall state the grounds for each
decision.
   (F)   Any conditions imposed by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare, and the social and economic well being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes
affected by the proposed use or activity; and
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter, be
related to the standards established in this chapter for the land use or
activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards.
   (G)   The decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be final. An appeal
from a decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals to the Circuit Court for the
County of Genesee shall be filed within 21 days after the Zoning Board of
Appeals approves the meeting minutes of its decision.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 24.04; Am. Ord. 103, passed 7-21-1997; Am. Ord.
157, passed 7-17-2007; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 153.404 REHEARING.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals is without general authority to reconsider a
matter it has decided and from reversing its previous decision, unless the
facts and circumstances that actuated the decision have so changed as to
vitiate or materially affect the reason that produced and supported it, and no
vested rights have intervened.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 24.05; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.415 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the administrative
official or by any other township official designated by the Township Board.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.01)
§ 153.416 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The administrative official, and/or the Code Enforcement Officer, if
any, designated by the Township Board shall administer and enforce this
chapter. These official(s) may be provided with the assistance of other persons
as the Township Board may direct.
   (B)   If the administrative official or the Code Enforcement Officer shall
find that any of the provisions of this chapter are being violated, the
official shall notify, in writing, the person responsible for the violation, or
the owner of record of the lot upon which the violation is taking place,
indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct it. He or she shall order discontinuance of the illegal use of any lot
or structures, or of illegal additions, alterations, or structural changes;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions.
   (C)   The administrative official shall have the power to grant zoning
compliance permits and to make inspections of buildings or premises necessary
to carry out his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   The administrative official shall require that every application for a
permit for excavation, construction, moving, or structure alteration or change
in type of use or the type of occupancy, be accompanied by a written statement
and plans drawn to scale, in triplicate, and showing the following, in
sufficient detail, to ascertain whether the proposed work or use is in
conformance with this chapter:
      (1)   The actual shape, location, and dimensions of the lot;
      (2)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structure to
be erected, altered, or moved, and of any buildings or other structures already
on the lot;
      (3)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all the structures
upon it, including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate;
      (4)   The signature of the owner of the premises concerned; and
      (5)   Other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
   (E)   If the proposed excavation, construction, moving, or alteration or use
of land as set forth in the application are in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, the administrative official shall issue a permit.
   (F)   If any application for the permit is not approved, the administrative
official shall state in writing on the application, the cause for the
disapproval.
   (G)   When required or authorized by this chapter, the administrative
official shall refer the application to the Planning Commission, Zoning Board
of Appeals, Township Board, or other agency for required approvals.
   (H)   Issuance of a permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any
provisions of this chapter and a permit issued contrary to the terms of this
chapter shall be void.
   (I)   The administrative official is under no circumstances permitted to
grant exceptions to the actual meaning of any clause, order, or regulation
contained in this chapter to any person making application to excavate,
construct, remove, alter, or use either building, structures or land within the
township.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.02)
§ 153.417 PRIVATE COVENANTS.
   The administrative official shall not refuse to issue a permit when the
conditions imposed by this chapter are complied with by the applicant, despite
possible violations of private covenants or agreements to which the township is
not a party.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.03)
§ 153.418 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence excavation for or
construct any building or structure, make any structural changes, or move an
existing building or initiate any change in the use of land or buildings
without first obtaining a zoning compliance permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for a land use, building use, or
construction until an application has been submitted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter showing that the construction proposed is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with the Building Code, and
with other applicable codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.419 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any land, building, or
structure for which a building permit is required, and to use or permit to be
used any building or structure hereafter altered, extended, erected, repaired,
or moved, until the administrative official shall have issued a certificate of
occupancy stating that the provisions of this chapter have been complied with.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.05) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.420 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Charter Township of Montrose Planning Commission, as created under
a planning act repealed under Section 85 of Public Act 33 of 2008, provides for
the continuation of the Planning Commission and shall perform all of the duties
of the Commission in accordance with the Michigan Planning Enabling Act.
   (B)   The chief elected official (Township Supervisor) shall appoint members
of the Planning Commission, subject to approval by a majority vote of the
members of the legislative body elected and serving.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consist of 7 members and, other than the
ex officio members, shall be appointed for 3-year terms.
      (1)   However, of the members of the Planning Commission, other than ex
officio members, first appointed, a number shall be appointed to 1-year or 2-
year terms such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of 1/3 of all the
Planning Commission members will expire each year.
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs, it shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the same manner as provided for an original appointment.
      (3)   A member shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (D)   The membership of the Planning Commission shall be representative of
important segments of the community, such as the economic, governmental,
educational, and social development of the local unit of government, in
accordance with the major interests as they exist in the local unit of
government, such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education,
public health, government, transportation, industry, and commerce. The
membership shall also be representative of the entire geography of the local
unit of government to the extent practicable.
   (E)   Members of the Planning Commission shall be qualified electors of the
local unit of government, except that 1 of Planning Commission members may be
an individual who is not a qualified elector of the local unit of government.
   (F)   Being created under PA 285 of 1931, as amended, the Planning
Commission may have 1 member of the legislative body or the chief elected
official, or both, appointed to the Planning Commission as ex officio members.
      (1)   In any other township, 1 member of the legislative body shall be
appointed to the Planning Commission as an ex officio member.
      (2)   Except as provided in this division, an elected officer or employee
of the local unit of government is not eligible to be a member of the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   The term of an ex officio member of the Planning Commission shall
be as follows:
         (a)   The term of a chief elected official shall correspond to his or
her term as chief elected official.
         (b)   The term of a member of the legislative body shall expire with
his or her term on the legislative body.
   (G)   Upon written charges and after a public hearing, the legislative body
may remove a member of the Planning Commission for misfeasance, malfeasance, or
nonfeasance in office.
      (1)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a member may reasonably
be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member shall disclose the
potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The member is disqualified from voting on the matter if so provided
by the bylaws or by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as
required by this division constitutes malfeasance in office.
      (4)   Unless the legislative body, by ordinance, defines conflict of
interest for the purposes of this division, the planning commission shall do so
in its bylaws.
   (H)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary from
its members, and create and fill other offices as it considers advisable.
      (1)   An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to
serve as Chairperson.
      (2)   The term of each officer shall be 1 year, with opportunity for
reelection as specified in bylaws adopted under division (G).
   (I)   With approval of the Township Board, the Planning Commission may
appoint advisory committees whose members are not members of the Planning
Commission.
   (J)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep a public record of its resolutions, transactions,
findings, and determinations.
   (K)   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the
legislative body concerning its operations and the status of planning
activities, including recommendations regarding actions by the legislative body
related to planning and development.
   (L)   The Planning Commission shall hold monthly meetings, and by resolution
shall determine the time and place of the meetings.
      (1)   Unless the bylaws provide otherwise, a special meeting of the
Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or by 2 other members,
upon written request to the Secretary.
      (2)   Unless the bylaws provide otherwise, the Secretary shall send
written notice of a special meeting to Planning Commission members not less
than 48 hours before the meeting.
   (M)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting of the Planning Commission held in compliance
with the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275.
Public notice of the time, date, and place of a regular or special meeting
shall be given in the manner required by that act.
   (N)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by
the Planning Commission in the performance of an official function shall be
made available to the public in compliance with the Freedom of Information Act,
1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A. § 15.231 through 15.246.
   (O)   (1)   Members of the Planning Commission may be compensated for their
services as provided by the legislative body.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may adopt bylaws relative to compensation
and expenses of its members and employees for travel, when engaged in the
performance of activities authorized by the legislative body, including but not
limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops, educational and training
programs, and meetings.
   (P)   After preparing the annual report required under Section 19 of Public
Act 33 of 2008, the Planning Commission may prepare a detailed budget, and
submit the budget to the legislative body for approval or disapproval. The
legislative body annually may appropriate funds for carrying out the purposes
and functions permitted under this act, and may match local government funds
with federal, state, county, or other local government or private grants,
contributions, or endowments.
   (Q)   The Planning Commission may not accept gifts for the exercise of its
functions.
   (R)   A local unit of government may employ a planning director and other
personnel as it considers necessary, contract for the services of planning and
other technicians, and incur other expenses, within a budget authorized by the
legislative body. This authority shall be exercised by the legislative body,
unless a charter provision or ordinance delegates this authority to the
Planning Commission or another body or official. The appointment of employees
is subject to the same provisions of law as govern other corresponding civil
employees of the local unit of government.
   (S)   For the purposes of this act, the Planning Commission may make use of
maps, data, and other information and expert advice provided by appropriate
federal, state, regional, county, and municipal officials, departments, and
agencies. All public officials, departments, and agencies shall make available
public information for the use of planning commissions, and furnish such other
technical assistance and advice as they may have for planning purposes.
   (T)   In cases where the Planning Commission is required to recommend or
approve certain use of premises under the provisions of this chapter, the
applicant shall comply with the provisions of §§
153.230 through
153.232, and all other applicable provision of the Zoning Code as may be
reasonable required by the Commission for the proper consideration of the
matter.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, §25.06; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 153.421 FEES.
   The Township Board shall establish, by resolution, fees for each of the
following.
   (A)   Inspection and certification. Fees for inspections and the issuance of
permits or certificates or copies thereof, required or issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be collected by the Township Treasurer in
advance of the issuance of the permits or certificates.
   (B)   Appeals. Any person appealing under §§
153.400 through
153.404 above shall pay the established fixed fee, plus the additional fees as
may be deemed reasonable by the Township Board for expert services necessary to
render a proper decision.
   (C)   Reviews. Fees for the review of site plans, condominium projects,
special land use permits, extraction activities, ponds, or other matters
requiring Township Board, Township Planning Commission, or the Township Zoning
Board of Appeals review under the terms of this chapter, shall be paid to cover
100% of the cost of the reviews including notice, publication, delivery,
administration, and professional services.
   (D)   Rezoning.
      (1)   Any petition for the rezoning of land requiring an amendment of the
Charter Township of Montrose Zoning Ordinance shall be accompanied by a fee
payable by the petitioner.
      (2)   The fee shall be utilized to defray all costs, including necessary
expert opinions in conjunction with the legislative review of the petition.
   (E)   Other. Fees for special resolutions pertaining to any matter relevant
to this chapter or for the cost of special meetings of the Township Board,
Planning Commission or the Board of Appeals shall be paid by the applicant
prior to the resolution or meeting.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.07)
§ 153.422 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Township Board may, after a public hearing by the Township
Planning Commission, amend the regulations or the district boundaries of this
chapter pursuant to the authority and according to the procedures set forth in
Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended.
   (B)   Proposed amendments to the regulations or district boundaries of this
chapter may be initiated by the Township Planning Commission, Township Board,
or an individual petitioner.
   (C)   Whenever an individual petitioner requests a zoning amendment, he or
she shall be the fee owner of the premises concerned, or else have the fee
owner subscribed to his or her petition, and shall submit a petition for
rezoning to the Township Clerk.
   (D)   Any applicant desiring to have any change made in this chapter shall,
with his or her petition for the change, deposit a fee as established by the
Township Board with the Township Treasurer at the time that the petition is
filed to cover the costs of processing the petition.
   (E)   The notice shall include a description of the nature of the request,
indicate the property that is the subject of the request by street address,
state when and where the request will be considered and indicate when and where
written comments can be received. The notice shall also include the places and
times at which the tentative text and any maps of this chapter may be examined.
The Township Board shall comply with the notice requirements for public
hearings continued in §
153.427 herein.
   (F)   Prior to making a decision at the next regularly scheduled Board of
Trustees meeting, the Board of Trustees must provide a hearing to any person
requesting it that owns property or is a resident within 300 feet of the
subject parcel, regardless of municipal boundaries. The Board of Trustees shall
consider the proposed amendment and may take the following actions on a zoning
amendment.
      (1)   Approve the proposed amendment by a majority vote;
      (2)   Deny the request by a majority vote;
      (3)   Hold a public hearing on the matter before reaching a decision;
and/or
      (4)   Consider changes to the proposed amendment.
   (G)   Following adoption of the zoning amendment, 1 notice of adoption shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the township within 15
days of adoption. The notice shall include:
      (1)   A summary of the regulatory effect of the amendment or the actual
text of the amendment; and
      (2)   The place and time where a copy of the ordinance may be purchased
or inspected.
   (H)   The Zoning Ordinance or ordinance amendment takes effect 7 days after
publication.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.08; Am. Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007 )
§ 153.423 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A VIOLATION includes any act, which is prohibited or made or declared
to be unlawful, or in offense by this chapter and any omission or failure to
act where the act is required by this chapter.
   (B)   The administrative official and the Code Enforcement Officer, if any,
together with police officers of the township, are the township officials
authorized to issue and serve notices or citations of any violations of this
chapter.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.09; Am. Ord. 137, passed 5-21-2002)
§ 153.424 PUBLIC NUISANCE PER SE.
   Any building or structure which is erected, altered, or converted, or any
use of premises or land which is begun or changed subsequent to the time of
passage of this chapter and in violation of any of the provisions thereof, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and may be abated order of any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.11)
§ 153.425 EACH DAY A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or when a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.12)
§ 153.426 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES ARE CUMULATIVE.
   The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 25.13)
§ 153.427 ZONING - PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All zoning applications, amendment applications, special land use
applications, appeal or variance applications or other approvals requiring a
public hearing notice, as required by this chapter and/or Public Act 110 of
2006, Public Act 12 of 2008 and Public Act 33 of 2008, shall be published once
in a newspaper of general circulation, not less than 15 days before the date of
the public hearing meeting at which the application will be considered. In
addition to the newspaper public notice, the notice must also be sent by mail
or personal delivery to the following:
      (1)   Owners of property for which the approval or appeal is being
considered;
      (2)   All persons to whom real property is assessed with 300 feet of the
property (regardless of whether the property or occupant is located in the
township);
      (3)   Occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the property
(regardless of whether the property or occupant is located in the township). If
the name of the occupant is not known, the term "occupant" may be used;
      (4)   If a single structure contains multiple dwelling units exceeding 4
units or other distinct occupied areas, owned or leased by different persons, a
notice may be mailed to the manager or owner of the structure/property, who
shall be requested to post the notice at the primary entrance of the structure;
and
      (5)   To the persons(s) requesting an interpretation or an appeal from
the Zoning Board of Appeals or a temporary use from the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Notices shall include, but not be limited to, the following items:
      (1)   Describing the nature of the request;
      (2)   Stating the time, date, and place of the meeting;
      (3)   Indicating the property that is the subject of the request;
      (4)   Listing all existing street addresses within the property. In lieu
of street address, other means of identification, such as a parcel's
identification number, may be used.
      (5)   Indicating when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request or application.
(Ord. 157, passed 7-17-2007, § 25.14; Am. Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 153.428 MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make and approve a master plan as a
guide for development within the planning jurisdiction subject to the provision
of Public Act 33 of 2008.
   (B)   In preparing a master plan, the Planning Commission shall do all of
the following, as applicable:
      (1)   Make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present
conditions and future growth within the township, with due regard to its
relation to neighboring jurisdictions.
      (2)   Consult with representatives of adjacent local units of government
with respect to their planning so that conflicts in master plans and zoning may
be avoided.
      (3)   Cooperate with all departments of the state and federal governments
and other public agencies concerned with programs for economic, social, and
physical development within the township, and seek the maximum coordination of
the local unit of government's programs with these agencies.
   (C)   In preparing the master plan, the Planning Commission may meet with
other governmental planning commissions or agency staff to deliberate.
   (D)   In general, the Planning Commission has such lawful powers as may be
necessary to enable it to promote local planning and otherwise carry out the
purposes of this act.
   (E)   A master plan shall address land use and infrastructure issues, and
may project 20 years or more into the future. A master plan shall include maps,
plats, charts, and descriptive, explanatory, and other related matter, and
shall show the Planning Commission's recommendations for the physical
development of the township.
   (F)   A master plan shall also include those of the following subjects that
reasonably can be considered as pertinent to the future development of the
township:
      (1)   A land use plan that consists in part of a classification and
allocation of land for agriculture, residences, commerce, industry, recreation,
ways and grounds, public buildings, schools, soil conservation, forests,
woodlots, open space, wildlife refuges, and other uses and purposes.
      (2)   The general location, character and extent of streets, railroads,
airports, bicycle paths, pedestrian ways, bridges, waterways, and waterfront
developments; sanitary sewers and water supply systems; facilities for flood
prevention, drainage, pollution prevention, and maintenance of water levels;
and public utilities and structures.
      (3)   Recommendations as to the general character, extent, and layout of
redevelopment or rehabilitation of blighted areas; and the removal, relocation,
widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use, or extension of
streets, grounds, open spaces, buildings, utilities, or other facilities.
      (4)   A zoning plan for various zoning districts, controlling the height,
area, bulk, location, and use of buildings and premises. The zoning plan shall
include an explanation of how the land use categories on the future land use
map relate to the districts on the zoning map.
      (5)   If the township’s master plan includes a master street plan, the
means for implementing the master street plan in cooperation with the County
Road Commission and the State Transportation Department shall be specified in
the master street plan, in a manner consistent with the respective powers and
duties of and any written agreements between these entities and the
municipality.
   (G)   The Planning Commission may, by a majority vote of its members, adopt
a subplan for a geographic area less than the entire planning jurisdiction, if,
because of the unique physical characteristics of that area, more intensive
planning is necessary.
   (H)   The master plan shall be adopted under the procedures set forth in
this section and Public Act 33 of 2008. A master plan may be adopted as a
whole, or by successive parts corresponding with major geographical areas of
the township, or with functional subject matter areas of the master plan.
   (I)   Before preparing a master plan, the Planning Commission shall send to
all of the following, by first-class mail or personal delivery, a notice
explaining that the Planning Commission intends to prepare a master plan and
requesting the recipient's cooperation and comment:
      (1)   To each municipality located within or contiguous to the local unit
of government.
      (2)   To the County Planning Commission.
      (3)   To each public utility company and railroad company owning or
operating a public utility or railroad within the local unit of government, and
any government entity that registers its name and mailing address for this
purpose with the Planning Commission.
      (4)   If the master plan includes a master street plan, the County Road
Commission and the State Transportation Department.
   (J)   A submittal of the master plan to an entity described in division (I)
above may be made by personal or first-class mail delivery of a hard copy or by
electronic mail.
      (1)   However, the Planning Commission preparing the plan shall not make
such submittals by electronic mail unless, in the notice described in division
(I), the Planning Commission states that it intends to make such submittals by
electronic mail, and the entity receiving that notice does not respond by
objecting to the use of electronic mail.
      (2)   Electronic mail may contain a link to a website on which the
submittal is posted, and which is accessible to the public free of charge.
   (K)   After preparing a proposed master plan, the Planning Commission shall
submit the proposed master plan to the legislative body for review and comment.
The process of adopting a master plan shall not proceed further unless the
legislative body approves the distribution of the proposed master plan.
   (L)   If the Township Board approves the distribution of the proposed master
plan, it shall notify the Secretary of the Planning Commission, who shall
submit a copy of the proposed master plan, for review and comment, to all of
the following:
      (1)   To each municipality located within or contiguous to the local unit
of government.
      (2)   To the County Planning Commission.
      (3)   To each public utility company and railroad company owning or
operating a public utility or railroad within the local unit of government, and
any government entity that registers its name and mailing address for this
purpose with the Planning Commission.
      (4)   If the master plan will include a master street plan, the County
Road Commission and the State Transportation Department.
   (M)   Before approving a proposed master plan, the Planning Commission shall
hold not less than 1 public hearing on the proposed master plan.
      (1)   The hearing shall be held after the expiration of the deadline for
comments.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall give notice of the time and place of
the public hearing, not less than 15 days before the hearing, by publication in
a newspaper of general circulation within the local unit of government.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall also submit notice of the public
hearing in the same manner to each entity described in division (I).
   (N)   The approval of the proposed master plan shall be by resolution of the
Planning Commission, carried by the affirmative votes of not less than a
majority of its members.
      (1)   The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps and descriptive
and other matter intended by the Planning Commission to form the master plan.
      (2)   A statement recording the Planning Commission's approval of the
master plan, signed by the Chairperson or Secretary of the Planning Commission,
shall be included on the inside of the front or back cover of the master plan
and, if the future land use map is a separate document from the text of the
master plan, on the future land use map.
      (3)   Following approval of the proposed master plan by the Planning
Commission, the Secretary of the Planning Commission shall submit a copy of the
master plan to the legislative body.
   (O)   Approval of the proposed master plan by the Planning Commission is the
final step for adoption of the master plan, unless the legislative body by
resolution has asserted the right to approve or reject the master plan.
      (1)   In that case, after approval of the proposed master plan by the
Planning Commission, the legislative body shall approve or reject the proposed
master plan.
      (2)   A statement recording the legislative body's approval of the master
plan, signed by the clerk of the legislative body, shall be included on the
inside of the front or back cover of the master plan and, if the future land
use map is a separate document from the text of the master plan, on the future
land use map.
   (P)   If the legislative body rejects the proposed master plan, the
legislative body shall submit to the Planning Commission a statement of its
objections to the proposed master plan.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consider the legislative body's
objections and revise the proposed master plan so as to address those
objections.
      (2)   The procedures provided in these provisions shall be repeated until
the legislative body approves the proposed master plan.
   (Q)   Upon final adoption of the master plan, the Secretary of the Planning
Commission shall submit copies of the adopted master plan to the same entities
to which copies of the proposed master plan were required to be submitted.
   (R)   An extension, addition, revision, or other amendment to a master plan
shall be adopted by following the same procedure as approval for the original
master plan, subject to all of the following:
      (1)   Any of the following amendments to a master plan may be made
without following the same approval procedure for the master plan:
         (a)   A grammatical, typographical, or similar editorial change.
         (b)   A title change.
         (c)   A change to conform to an adopted plat.
      (2)   Subject to division (1), the review period shall be 42 days.
      (3)   When the Planning Commission sends notice to an entity that it
intends to prepare a sub-plan, the notice may indicate that the local unit of
government intends not to provide that entity with further notices or copies of
proposed or final sub-plans otherwise required to be submitted to that entity.
Unless the entity responds that it chooses to receive notice of sub-plans, the
local unit of government is not required to provide further notice of sub-plans
to that entity.
   (S)   At least every 5 years after adoption of the township's master plan,
the Planning Commission shall review the master plan and determine whether to
commence the procedure to amend the master plan or adopt a new master plan. The
review and its findings shall be recorded in the minutes of the relevant
meeting or meetings of the Planning Commission.
   (T)   Notwithstanding, the Planning Commission shall comply with the
requirements of Public Act 33 of 2008.
   (U)   To promote public interest in, and understanding of, the township's
master plan, the Planning Commission may publish and distribute copies of the
master plan or of any report, and employ other means of publicity and
education.
   (V)   The Township Planning Commission shall consult with and advise public
officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional, and other organizations, and citizens concerning the promotion or
implementation of the master plan.
(Ord. 174, passed 11-10-2008)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter or any permit, license
or exception granted hereunder, or any lawful order of the administrative
official, Board of Appeals or the Township Board issued in pursuance of this
chapter shall be deemed a civil infraction.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
the Charter Township of Montrose's Zoning Code shall be responsible for a
municipal civil fraction and be subject to the following civil fines, in
addition to any equitable relief as may be ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction:
      (1)   First offense. The fine for a first offense of any infraction shall
be no less than $150;
      (2)   Second offense within two years. The fine for a second offense of
any zoning infraction shall be no less than $250; and
      (3)   Repeat offense, any 3 or subsequent offenses within 3 years. The
fine for any infraction which is a third or greater offense within 3 years
shall be no less than $500.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) above, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the provisions of this
code, or any ordinance, shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day
that the condition continues to exist.
(Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.28; Ord. 99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.29; Ord.
99, passed 11-18-1996, § 22.30; Am. Ord. 116, passed 1-18-1999; Am. Ord. 117,
passed 1-18-1999; Am. Ord. 118, passed 3-15-1999; Am. Ord. 21-005-153.99,
passed 9-21-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1987-1   5-18-1987   Electric franchise; Consumers Power Company
1992-4   2-10-1992   Gas franchise; Consumers Power Company
156      4-17-2007   Cable franchise; Charter Communications
17-224   6-20-2017   Electric franchise; Consumers Energy Company
2021-008 12-21-2021  Gas franchise; Consumers Energy Company
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
                           Rezoning the property at 11306 West Vienna Road,
139            11-24-2003  Parcel 13-17-300-003, from C-1 (Neighborhood
                           Commercial) to C-2 (General Commercial).
                           Rezoning the east 200 feet of the property located
143            7-19-2005   at 7010 West Frances Road, Parcel 13-36-400-027,
                           from RF (Residential Farm) to C-1 (Commercial).
                           Rezoning the east 481.82 feet that is parallel to
144            7-19-2005   Vienna Road by 1292.24 feet in depth of the property
                           located on Vienna Road, Parcel 13-22-100-038, from
                           RF (Residential Farm) to I-2 (Heavy Industry).
                           Rezoning property located at 7360 Vienna Road,
147            5-16-2005   Parcel 13-13-300-015, from RF (Residential Farm) to
                           I-1 (Light Industrial).
                           Rezoning two parcels of property located at 7041
151            1-16-2007   West Farrand Road, Parcels 13-13-200-035 and 13-13-
                           200-036, from RF (Residential Farm) to RS
                           (Residential Suburban).
                           Rezoning properties (Lots 3 through 24, and 29
                           through 37) located in the Kee-Wah-Din Farms, a
164            3-18-2008   private road development in Sections 4 and 9 of the
                           township, known as part of Parcel 13-04-400-012,
                           from AG (Agricultural) and RS (Residential
                           Suburban).
                           Rezoning part of Parcel 13-23-200-010, also known as
171            9-16-2008   8247 Vienna Road (Republic Services of MI), from RC
                           (Recreation/Conservation) to I-2 (Heavy Industrial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the south side
                           of Vienna Road between Elms Road and Morrish Road in
172            10-21-2008  Section 24 of the township, known as Parcel 13-24-
                           100-012, from RF (Residential Farms) to C2 (General
                           Commercial).
                           Rezoning two parcels of land located on the south
                           side of Vienna Road, between Duffield Road and the
176            12-16-2008  city limits, in Section 20 of the township, known as
                           Parcels 13-20-100-038 and 13-20-100-039, from C2
                           (General Commercial) to I2 (Heavy Industrial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the north side
                           of Farrand Road and the east side of McKinley Road,
09-180         7-21-2009   in Section 10 of the township, known as part of
                           Parcel 13-10-400-002 from AG (Agricultural) to I2
                           (Heavy Industrial). (Readopted by Ord. 10-187,
                           passed 9-21-2010).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the north side
                           of Vienna Road, between Elms and Morrish Roads in
11-192         6-21-2011   Section 13 of the township, known as part of parcel
                           13-13-300-017, from RF (Residential Farms) and I1
                           (Light Industrial) to I2 (Heavy Industrial).
                           Conditional rezoning of a parcel of land located on
                           11263 McKinley Road, known as parcel 13-22-300-001,
14-214         10-21-2014  except the north 210 feet of the east 210 feet where
                           family residential home is located, from RF
                           (Residential Farms) to C-2 (General Commercial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land being located on the east
                           side of Seymour Road, being just south of Vienna
15-218         10-20-2015  Road in Section 21 of this township, known as parcel
                           13-21-200-016, from RC (Recreation/Conservation) to
                           C2 (General Commercial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the southeast
15-219         10-20-2015  corner of Sheridan and Willard Roads in Section 6 of
                           the township, known as parcel 13-06-100-008, from RF
                           (Residential Farms) to C2 (General Commercial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the south side
17-226         8-15-2017   of Vienna Road between Seymour Road and McKinley
                           Road, known as parcel 13-22-100-044, from I-2 (Heavy
                           Industrial) to C2 (General Commercial.
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the south side
                           of Vienna Road between Morrish Road and McKinley
20-001         6-16-2020   Road in Section 22 and Section 23 of the township,
                           from RC (Recreation/ Conservation) and RD
                           (Residential Farms) to M1 (Heavy Industrial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land located on the south side
                           of Vienna Road between Morrish Road and McKinley
2020-001       6-16-2020   Road to M1 (Heavy Industrial); and also rezoning
                           property north of the Brent Run Creek from RC
                           (Recreation/ Conservation and RD (Residential Farms)
                           to M1 (Heavy Industrial).
                           Rezoning certain land from C-1 (Neighborhood
                           Commercial) to C-2 (General Commercial) being only
                           that part of Parcel No. 13-21-200-013, also known as
20-002-153     9-15-2020   10193 Vienna Road currently zoned C-1. That part of
                           Parcel No 13-21-200-013 currently zoned RM
                           (Multiple-Family Residential) as of 8/18/2020 shall
                           remain unchanged.
                           Rezoning a parcel of land on Farrand Road and a
153.021-22-003 8-16-2022   parcel of land on N. McKinley Road from RF
                           (Residential Farm) to I-2 (Heavy Industrial).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land at 9292 W. Vienna Road
22-005-153.021 9-20-2022   from C-1 (Neighborhood Commercial) to RF
                           (Residential Farm).
                           Rezoning a parcel of land at 10139 W. Vienna Road
22-007-153.021 11-1-2022   and a parcel of land at 10245 W. Vienna Road from RS
                           (Residential Suburban) to C-2 (General Commercial).
                          
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A.              Code Section
10.31 - 10.33         32.02
15.231 - 15.246       153.420
15.261 et seq.        153.367
15.261 - 15.275       153.420
30.401 - 30.421       32.01,
                      32.02
41.421 - 41.425       95.16
41.806(a)             33.02,
                      36.02
54.211 et seq.        151.05
117.5b                10.01
123.165               50.03
125.1501 et seq.      98.02
                      150.01,
125.1501 - 125.1531   150.15,
                      150.40
125.1508a             150.01
125.1508b(6)          150.40,
                      150.41
                      152.04,
125.2301 et seq.      152.07,
                      152.11
                      153.006,
125.2301 - 125.2350   153.096,
                      153.098,
                      153.200
125.271 - 125.301     153.006
125.321 - 125.333     153.006,
                      153.420
125.3203              153.006
125.401 et seq.       98.02
141.907               153.006
205.53                94.18
211.1 - 211.157       98.07
247.61 et seq.        94.51
247.655               92.03,
                      92.04
257.1 et seq.         70.01
257.1 - 257.923       140.03
257.25                92.04
257.301 to 257.329  92.03
257.625(1)(c)         70.01,
                      70.99
299.501 - 299.551     153.006
324.3101 et seq.      52.02
324.3103              52.02
324.3106              52.02
324.3109              52.02
                      53.01,
                      53.02,
                      53.21,
324.11501 et seq.     53.22,
                      53.41,
                      94.35,
                      153.006
324.20101 et seq.     33.02
324.63201 et seq.     153.256
324.80104(q)          140.03
324.81129             92.03
324.81131 et seq.     92.01
324.81131             92.05
333 et seq.           97.02
333.26421 et seq.     153.367
333.26423(d)          153.367
333.264221 et seq.    153.006 ,
                      153.367
333.27951 et seq.     97.01,
                      153.367
333.27954             136.01
339.2401 - 339.2518   98.02
445.451 - 445.453     94.18
480.11 - 480.21       70.02
484.3101 - 484.3120   33.03
559.101 - 559.272     153.006,
                      153.237
559.104               153.006
559.108               153.006
                      33.05,
560.101 - 560.293     151.02,
                      153.006
560.241               151.27
600.2913              135.02
600.8701 - 600.8735   10.02
712A.2                141.07
722.673               153.362,
                      142.07
750.41a               33.02
750.243               95.17
750.411a              33.02
752.362               142.07,
                      153.362
764.9a - 764.9e       10.10
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
99-3     3-15-1999   33.06
99-5     3-15-1999   33.05
99-07    5-17-1999   50.02
00-8     6-19-2000   95.01
01-09    11-20-2001  33.04
03-04    4-15-2003   50.02
03-05    5-20-2003   51.07
03-06    5-20-2003   51.08
03-07    12-16-2003  33.03
04-05    10-5-2004   30.35
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.               Date Passed         Code Section
                                           96.01 -
22                     2-14-1966           96.05,
                                           96.99
                                           152.02 -
                                           152.04,
1                      4-22-1970           152.06 -
                                           152.14,
                                           152.99
47                     12-13-1971          50.01,
                                           50.99
77-8                   11-14-1977          150.15
77-9                   11-28-1977          32.01 -
                                           32.11
45                     2-7-1979            33.07
18                     10-1-1979           51.01 -
                                           51.13
                                           94.35 -
1983-2                 4-6-1983            94.38,
                                           94.99
                                           94.15 -
1985-3                 7-5-1985            94.20,
                                           94.99
1987-1                 5-18-1987           T.S.O. I
                                           94.01 -
1988-12                12-19-1988          94.03,
                                           94.99
67                     6-18-1990           53.40 -
                                           53.45
1990-4                 7-16-1990           33.02
                                           53.01 -
1992-1                 1-13-1992           53.09,
                                           53.99
1992-3                 1-13-1992           53.20 -
                                           53.24
1992-4                 2-10-1992           T.S.O. I
                                           93.01 -
1992-10                8-17-1992           93.05,
                                           93.99
1992-17                10-19-1992          70.02
                                           110.01 -
1994-8                 8-15-1994           110.08,
                                           110.99
1994-10                12-19-1994          33.01
1995-1                 1-17-1995           30.20
                                           90.01 -
1995-6                 6-9-1995            90.06,
                                           90.99
99                     11-18-1996          153.001
99                     11-18-1996, § 1.01 153.002
99                     11-18-1996, § 1.02 153.003
99                     11-18-1996, § 1.03 153.004
99                     11-18-1996, § 2.01 153.005
99                     11-18-1996, § 2.02 153.006
99                     11-18-1996, § 2.03 153.007
99                     11-18-1996, § 3.01 153.020
99                     11-18-1996, § 3.02 153.021
99                     11-18-1996, § 3.03 153.022
99                     11-18-1996, § 3.04 153.023
99                     11-18-1996, § 4.01 153.035
99                     11-18-1996, § 4.02 153.036
99                     11-18-1996, § 4.03 153.037
99                     11-18-1996, § 4.04 153.038
99                     11-18-1996, § 5.01 153.050
99                     11-18-1996, § 5.02 153.051
99                     11-18-1996, § 5.03 153.052
99                     11-18-1996, § 5.04 153.053
99                     11-18-1996, § 6.01 153.065
99                     11-18-1996, § 6.02 153.066
99                     11-18-1996, § 6.03 153.067
99                     11-18-1996, § 6.04 153.068
99                     11-18-1996, § 7.01 153.080
99                     11-18-1996, § 7.02 153.081
99                     11-18-1996, § 7.03 153.082
99                     11-18-1996, § 7.04 153.083
99                     11-18-1996, § 8.01 153.095
99                     11-18-1996, § 8.02 153.096
99                     11-18-1996, § 8.03 153.097
99                     11-18-1996, § 8.04 153.098
99                     11-18-1996, § 8.05 153.099
99                     11-18-1996, § 9.01 153.110
99                     11-18-1996, § 9.02 153.111
99                     11-18-1996, § 9.03 153.112
99                     11-18-1996, § 9.04 153.113
99                     11-18-1996, § 10.01153.125
99                     11-18-1996, § 10.02153.126
99                     11-18-1996, § 10.03153.127
99                     11-18-1996, § 10.04153.128
99                     11-18-1996, § 11.01153.140
99                     11-18-1996, § 11.02153.141
99                     11-18-1996, § 11.03153.142
99                     11-18-1996, § 11.04153.143
99                     11-18-1996, § 12.01153.155
99                     11-18-1996, § 12.02153.156
99                     11-18-1996, § 12.03153.157
99                     11-18-1996, § 12.04153.158
99                     11-18-1996, § 13.01153.170
99                     11-18-1996, § 13.02153.171
99                     11-18-1996, § 13.03153.172
99                     11-18-1996, § 13.04153.173
99                     11-18-1996, § 14.01153.185
99                     11-18-1996, § 14.02153.186
99                     11-18-1996, § 14.03153.187
99                     11-18-1996, § 14.04153.188
99                     11-18-1996, § 15.01153.200
99                     11-18-1996, § 15.02153.201
99                     11-18-1996, § 16.01153.215
99                     11-18-1996, § 16.02153.216
99                     11-18-1996, § 16.03153.217
99                     11-18-1996, § 16.04153.218
99                     11-18-1996, § 16.05153.219
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.01153.230
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.02153.231
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.03153.232
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.04153.233
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.05153.234
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.06153.235
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.07153.236
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.08153.237
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.09153.238
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.10153.239
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.11153.240
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.12153.241
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.13153.242
99                     11-18-1996, § 17.14153.243
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.01153.255
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.02153.256
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.03153.257
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.04153.258
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.05153.259
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.06153.260
99                     11-18-1996, § 18.07153.261
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.01153.275
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.02153.276
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.03153.277
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.04153.278
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.05153.279
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.06153.280
99                     11-18-1996, § 19.07153.281
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.01153.295
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.02153.296
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.03153.297
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.04153.298
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.05153.299
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.06153.300
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.07153.301
99                     11-18-1996, § 20.08153.302
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.01153.315
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.02153.316
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.03153.317
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.04153.318
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.05153.319
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.06153.320
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.07153.321
99                     11-18-1996, § 21.08153.322
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.01153.335
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.02153.336
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.03153.337
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.04153.338
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.05153.339
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.06153.340
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.07153.341
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.08153.342
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.09153.343
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.10153.344
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.11153.345
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.12153.346
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.13153.347
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.14153.348
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.15153.349
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.16153.350
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.17153.351
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.18153.352
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.19153.353
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.20153.354
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.21153.355
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.23153.356
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.24153.357
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.25153.358
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.26153.359
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.27153.360
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.28153.361
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.28153.999
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.29153.362
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.29153.999
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.30153.363,
                                           153.999
99                     11-18-1996, § 22.32153.365
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.01153.380
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.02153.381
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.03153.382
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.04153.383
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.05153.384
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.06153.385
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.07153.386
99                     11-18-1996, § 23.08153.387
99                     11-18-1996, § 24.01153.400
99                     11-18-1996, § 24.02153.401
99                     11-18-1996, § 24.03153.402
99                     11-18-1996, § 24.04153.403
99                     11-18-1996, § 24.05153.404
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.01153.415
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.02153.416
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.03153.417
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.04153.418
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.05153.419
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.06153.420
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.07153.421
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.08153.422
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.09153.423
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.11153.424
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.12153.425
99                     11-18-1996, § 25.13153.426
101                    7-21-1997           153.201
102                    7-21-1997           153.219
103                    7-21-1997           153.403
104                    11-10-1997          153.201
105                    11-10-1997          153.338
106                    11-10-1997          153.037
107                    11-10-1997          153.052
108                    11-10-1997          153.171
110                    4-20-1998           51.08
111                    5-18-1998           153.340
                                           151.01 -
112                    6-15-1998           151.10,
                                           151.99
113                    8-17-1998           153.200
114                    11-9-1998           153.219
115                    1-18-1999           153.360
                                           153.006,
116                    1-18-1999           153.361,
                                           153.999
117                    1-18-1999           153.362,
                                           153.999
118                    3-15-1999           153.363,
                                           153.999
100                    3-17-1999           153.200
119                    5-17-1999           153.382
121                    5-17-1999           50.01
123                    6-21-1999           93.01,
                                           93.03
125                    10-18-1999          153.383
126                    12-20-1999          153.157
128                    2-12-2001           153.259
129                    5-15-2001           153.365
131                    5-15-2001           153.342
132                    5-15-2001           153.360
133                    5-15-2001           51.08
                                           150.01,
134                    12-18-2001          150.02,
                                           150.99
135                    1-16-2002           90.99
–                    3-18-2002           31.01 -
                                           31.05
136                    4-16-2002           51.07
137                    5-21-2002           153.423
138                    11-24-2003          153.299
139                    11-24-2003          T.S.O. II
140                    12-16-2003          70.01,
                                           70.99
143                    7-19-2005           T.S.O. II
144                    7-19-2005           T.S.O. II
                                           153.006,
145                    1-17-2006           153.230,
                                           153.235,
                                           153.354
                                           91.01 -
146                    3-21-2006           91.10,
                                           91.99
147                    5-16-2006           T.S.O. II
                                           153.006,
                                           153.141,
                                           153.142,
                                           153.156,
148                    5-16-2006           153.157,
                                           153.172,
                                           153.200,
                                           153.201,
                                           153.219,
                                           153.279
                                           95.15 -
149                    12-19-2006          95.22,
                                           95.99
                                           150.25,
150                    12-19-2006          150.26,
                                           150.99
151                    1-16-2007           T.S.O. II
                                           153.006,
                                           153.007,
                                           153.037,
152                    1-16-2007           153.052,
                                           153.067,
                                           153.111,
                                           153.219
                                           94.50 -
153                    1-16-2007           94.56,
                                           94.99
                                           91.03,
154                    3-21-2007           91.05,
                                           91.99
155                    4-17-2007           153.201,
                                           153.219
156                    4-17-2007           T.S.O. I
                                           153.001,
                                           153.006,
                                           153.217,
                                           153.384,
157                    7-17-2007           153.386,
                                           153.400,
                                           153.401,
                                           153.403,
                                           153.422,
                                           153.427
                                           153.006,
158                    7-17-2007           153.219,
                                           153.366
159                    9-18-2007           Adopting Ordinance
160                    9-18-2007           35.01 -
                                           35.03
                                           51.04,
161                    10-16-2007          51.05,
                                           51.07,
                                           51.08
163                    2-19-2008           31.01 -
                                           31.09
164                    3-18-2008           T.S.O. II
                                           111.01 -
166                    5-20-2008           111.07,
                                           111.99
167                    5-20-2008           153.344
169                    8-19-2008           Adopting Ordinance
170                    9-16-2008           153.340,
                                           153.341
171                    9-16-2008           T.S.O. II
172                    10-21-2008          T.S.O. II
173                    11-10-2008          153.295 -
                                           153.302
                                           153.006,
                                           153.052,
                                           153.336,
                                           153.352,
                                           153.354,
174                    11-10-2008          153.365,
                                           153.400 -
                                           153.404,
                                           153.420,
                                           153.427,
                                           153.428
                                           151.20 -
175                    11-10-2008          151.32,
                                           151.99
176                    12-16-2008          T.S.O. II
177                    3-17-2009           153.295 -
                                           153.302
09-178                 4-21-2009           33.02
09-179                 7-21-2009           Adopting Ordinance
09-180                 7-21-2009           T.S.O. II
09-181                 8-18-2009           150.40 -
                                           150.42
09-182                 11-10-2009          153.343
                                           95.15 -
10-183                 2-16-2010           95.22,
                                           95.99
10-184                 6-16-2010           Adopting Ordinance
                                           91.01 -
10-185                 7-20-2010           91.10,
                                           91.99
                                           96.01 -
10-186                 7-20-2010           96.05,
                                           96.99
                                           Adopting Ordinance,
                                           33.02,
                                           95.15 -
                                           95.22,
10-187                 9-21-2010           95.99,
                                           150.40 -
                                           150.42,
                                           153.343,
                                           T.S.O. II
10-188                 10-19-2010          153.364
                                           31.02,
10-189                 11-9-2010           31.04,
                                           31.09
                                           91.01 -
11-191                 5-17-2011           91.10,
                                           91.99
11-192                 6-21-2011           T.S.O. II
11-193                 6-21-2011           Adopting Ordinance
                                           130.01,
                                           130.99,
                                           131.01 -
                                           131.04,
                                           131.99,
                                           132.01 -
                                           132.07,
                                           133.01 -
                                           133.06,
                                           134.01 -
                                           134.05,
                                           135.01 -
                                           135.08,
                                           136.01 -
                                           136.03,
                                           137.01 -
11-190                 7-19-2011           137.06,
                                           139.01 -
                                           139.16,
                                           140.01 -
                                           140.05,
                                           140.07,
                                           141.01 -
                                           141.07,
                                           142.01 -
                                           142.10,
                                           143.01,
                                           144.01,
                                           145.01,
                                           146.01 -
                                           146.06,
                                           147.01 -
                                           147.09
11-194                 10-18-2011          36.01 -
                                           36.09
                                           37.01 -
12-195                 1-20-2012           37.03,
                                           37.99
12-196                 4-17-2012           70.01,
                                           70.99
12-197                 6-19-2012           153.258,
                                           153.259
12-198                 1-15-2013           153.340
13-199                 2-19-2013           153.347
                                           153.006,
                                           153.037,
13-200                 3-19-2013           153.052,
                                           153.157,
                                           153.171,
                                           153.219
13-201                 3-19-2013           136.01
13-202                 3-19-2013           143.02
13-203                 5-21-2013           153.255 -
                                           153.257
13-204                 6-18-2013           94.55
13-205                 12-17-2013          134.01
13-206                 1-21-2014           153.006 ,
                                           153.367
13-207                 1-21-2014           153.006 ,
                                           153.366
14-208                 7-15-2014           96.04
14-209                 8-19-2014           130.02
14-210                 8-19-2014           31.02
14-211                 9-16-2014           138.01 -
                                           138.06
14-212                 10-21-2014          31.02
14-213                 - -                 95.20
14-214                 10-21-2014          T.S.O. II
14-215                 11-10-2014          153.200
15-216                 7-21-2015           30.10
15-217                 10-20-2015          140.06
15-218                 10-20-2015          T.S.O. II
15-219                 10-20-2015          T.S.O. II
16-221                 11-10-2016          136.03
17-223                 2-21-2017           153.355
17-224                 6-20-2017           T.S.O. I
17-225                 8-15-2017           153.275
17-226                 8-15-2017           T.S.O. II
                                           51.09A,
17-227                 9-19-2017           51.09B,
                                           51.14
                                           52.01 -
17-228                 9-19-2017           52.09,
                                           52.99;
                                           Ch. 52, App. A
18-229                 6-19-2018           132.02
18-230                 9-18-2018           95.19,
                                           95.20
                                           153.006,
                                           153.037,
                                           153.052,
18-231                 12-18-2018          153.157,
                                           153.172,
                                           153.219,
                                           153.340
                                           97.01,
18-232                 12-18-2018          97.02,
                                           97.99
18-233                 4-16-2019           98.01 -
                                           98.09
19-234                 6-18-2019           50.03
19-235                 9-17-2019           138.04
20-001                 6-16-2020           T.S.O. II
2020-001               6-16-2020           T.S.O. II
20-002-153             9-15-2020           T.S.O. II
                                           92.01 -
59-003-2020            10-20-2020          92.05,
                                           92.99
21-001-153.366         6-15-2021           153.366
                                           94.70 -
21-002-94.70 et seq.   8-17-2021           94.74,
                                           94.99
21-003-153.340         9-21-2021           153.340
21-004-94.99           9-21-2021           94.99
21-005-153.99          9-21-2021           153.999
                                           153.006,
                                           153.219,
                                           153.275,
21-006-153.006 et seq. 10-19-2021          153.336,
                                           153.340,
                                           153.354,
                                           153.364,
                                           153.402
2021-007-153.367       11-9-2021           153.367
2021-008               12-21-2021          T.S.O. I
22-001-90.99           6-22-2022           90.99
153.021-22-003         8-16-2022           T.S.O. II
22-004-136.01; 136.03  9-20-2022           136.01,
                                           136.03
22-005-153.021         9-20-2022           T.S.O. II
22-007-153.021         11-1-2022           T.S.O. II
                                          
 
