MOUNT PLEASANT, MICHIGAN
CITY CODE
2025 S-43 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1103, passed 7-28-25
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 802
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MOUNT PLEASANT,
MICHIGAN, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MT. PLEASANT:
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Mount
Pleasant are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the City of Mount Pleasant to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Commission of Mount Pleasant has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of Mount
Pleasant in a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF MOUNT
PLEASANT, MOUNT PLEASANT, MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Mount Pleasant, Michigan, as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Mount
Pleasant, Mount Pleasant, Michigan.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
Mount Pleasant, Michigan
Table of Contents
   Charter
   Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   General Provisions
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   Commission
   31.   Administrative Divisions and City Officials
   32.   Commissions and Authorities
   33.   Taxation
   34.   Recovered Stolen Property
   35.   Emergency Management
   36.   Municipal Civil Infractions
   37.   Retired Public Safety Employees Health Care Benefits
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   Solid Wastes
   51.   Sewers
      Appendix: Table of Unit Factors
   52.   Water
   53.   Drainage Districts
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   General Provisions
   71.   Parking Regulations
   72.   Bicycles
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Alarm Systems
   91.   Animals
   92.   Cemetery Regulations
   93.   Fire Prevention
   94.   Library
   95.   Municipal Airport
   96.   Nuisances
   97.   Parks and Recreation
   98.   Streets and Sidewalks
   100.   Trees, Shrubs and Plants
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Licensing
   111.   Cable Communications Systems
   112.   Taxicabs
   113.   Public Use of Right-of-Way by Telecommunications Providers
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   General Provisions
   131.   Offenses Against Public Peace, Safety and Property
   132.   Controlled Substances
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Building Regulations
   151.   Floodplain Management
   152.   Housing Licensing Code
   153.   Subdivision Regulations
   154.   Zoning Ordinance
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Franchises
      II.   Tax Exemptions
      III.   Zoning Map Changes
PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
   References to Ordinances
INDEX
   with the following corrections:
      1)   deletion of Chapter 30.08 subsection (D)
      2)   addition of § 71.27-§ 71.31
      3)   substitution of § 71.45
      4)   addition of § 131.09
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Commission and the Clerk of the City of Mount Pleasant
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
      Introduced and read the 23rd day of June, 1997.
      PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Commission of Mount Pleasant, Michigan on
this 14th day of July, 1997.
Yeas:   Commissioners Cassel, Kaufmann, Pittsley, Ross, Scalise, Sowle and
Tilmann
Nays:   None
The Mayor declared the Ordinance adopted and effective immediately:      Date:
July 14, 1997
            Gerald D. Cassel, Mayor
            Mary Ann Kornexl, Acting City Clerk
CHARTER
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Article I
Establishment of City Government
1.   Establishment of city
2.   Legislative and governing authority
3.   General powers - particular powers
4.   Provide for public peace, health, safety
5.   Definition of qualified elector and registered elector
Article II
Form of Government
1.   Commission - Manager - powers
2.   Members; non-partisan
3.   Qualified electors
4.   Terms of office
5.   Reasons for creating vacancy
6.   Elective office - filling vacancies
7.   City Commission judge of election
8.   Oath of office
9.   Mayor, election, term; Vice Mayor
10.   Duties of Mayor - Vice Mayor
11.   Commissioners; compensation
12.   Commissioners, expenses; statement required
13.   Commissioners, returns all city property
14.   Commissioners: recall by voters
15.   Organization meeting, time, place, special meetings, notices, quorum,
minutes
16.   Commissioners: employment other offices, appointments by City Manager,
rules dealing with other employees; conflict of interest, disposal of park
property or river frontage
Article III
Administrative Officials
1.   Administrative officials
2.   Appointments; promotion on merit
3.   City Manager; appointment; qualifications
4.   City Manager; removal from office; procedure
5.   Appointment of Acting City Manager during vacancy
6.   Assistant City Manager; appointment; duties
7.   City Manager - duties
8.   City Clerk - appointment, duties; journal of proceedings, ordinances
9.   City Attorney - appointment, duties
10.   City Treasurer - appointment, duties; City Assessor - appointment, duties
Article IV
Nominations and Elections
1.   Holding city elections; time, registration, state law
2.   Nominating petition, form, filing
3.   Challengers at polling places
4.   Votes for Commission
5.   Special election; resolution by Commission
Article V
Ordinances
1.   Commission; legislature
2.   Legislation by ordinance, resolution
3.   Resolution, official action of Commission
4.   Ordinance, form, publication of summary, public hearing, publication,
effective date
5.   Emergency ordinance - definition, form, votes required; repeal
6.   Same; penalties
7.   Record of ordinances, signatures
8.   Codification of ordinances, time required, copies required
Article VI
Initiative and Referendum
1.   Initiative; referendum; elector's power to reconsider adopted ordinance
2.   Petition; Clerk to provide form
3.   Petition - signatures required, form, filing time
4.   Certification by Clerk, presentation to City Commission, final
determination
5.   Referendum petition; procedure
6.   Consideration by Commission, submission to voters
7.   Adoption by electors; repeal
8.   Amendments by Commission; time required
Article VII
General Finances
1.   Fiscal year
2.   Capital budget; date required, estimates; methods for financing
3.   Review previous budget
4.   Publication; copies available, time, place
5.   Adoption; date required
6.   Annual operating budget, submission to Commission
7.   Annual operating budget; contents
8.   Public hearing required, notice, copies available
9.   Adoption, date, appropriation for current expenses
10.   Budget; adjustments during year
11.   Balances not encumbered revert to general fund
12.   Emergency appropriations by City Commission
13.   Provide by resolution appropriate methods and safeguards for expenditure
of funds
14.   Designate depositories - provide security for deposits
15.   Audit required
16.   Accounting system conform to laws of state
17.   Prescribe methods for financial - contractual dealings, bidding
Article VIII
Taxation
1.   Power to assess taxes, methods
2.   Subjects of taxation
3.   City taxes collected according to state law
4.   Power of taxation not surrendered
5.   Assessment roll; prepared by City Assessor
6.   Board of Review; authority and duties
7. - 12.   Deleted
13.   Endorse statement confirming assessment roll
14.   Adoption of budget; Clerk certifies
15.   Assessment roll; Assessor certifies
16.   Tax roll, collection, Treasurer's powers
17.   Lien on property
18.   Unpaid taxes; sale of lands
19.   Taxes, due date, penalties
20.   Notice to taxpayers; publication; statement to taxpayers
21.   Unpaid taxes; return to County Treasurer
22.   Tax or public sale; power
23.   Assessing and collecting taxes; state law
24.   Enforcement of tax laws, City Commission
Article IX
Special Assessments
1.   Public improvements; resolution required
2.   Adopt ordinance, assessment procedure
3.   Petition objecting, percentage required by owners, vote required to
confirm
4.   Excess roll; method of refund
5.   Lien on property
6.   Ordinance; necessary procedure
Article X
Borrowing Power
1.   Bonds, issuance, ordinance or resolution required
2.   Borrowing in anticipation of special assessment
3.   Notice required, contents
4.   Bonded indebtedness
5.   Bond; require statement of purchase, Mayor and Clerk signatures, record by
Clerk
6.   Unissued bonds; limit number of years for selling
Article XI
Franchises
1.   Franchises; authority to grant
2.   Franchises; ordinance required, exclusive franchise prohibited, duration
3.   Franchise ordinance, renewal, conditions for same, subject to change by
City Commission
4.   Franchise ordinance, renewal, conditions for same, not subject to change
by City Commission
5.   Enumeration not limitation: Commission authority
6.   Public utility franchise, restrictions
7.   Public utility, franchise, rate adjustments
8.   Grantee to pay cost of improvement, maintenance of streets, etc.
9.   Ordinance, terms, fees
10.   Use of streets, etc., compensation
Article XII
Municipal Utilities
 
1.   Municipal utilities; right to acquire; operate
2.   Utility disposal; vote required
3.   Rates and charges; Commission to fix
4.   Ordinance required; collection of rates and charges; lien on property;
collection
5.   City Manager; power to appoint employees
6.   Financial accounting; publish report
7.   Municipal utility services outside city
Article XIII
Planning
1.   Creation
2.   Planning Commission; composition; members; terms
3.   Powers; provided by Act 285 Public Acts 1931
4.   Ordinance; authorizing granting building permits
5.   Zoning ordinance; City Commission prescribes
6.   Hazardous property; weed control; procedures; notice to owner
Article XIV
Miscellaneous
1.   Acquiring property for public use; city authority
2.   Condemnation; procedure
3.   Records; available to public
4.   Official representations or recitals in city agreement prohibited
5.   Members of various boards; qualifications; notices
6.   Campaign financing; restrictions, adopt ordinance
7.   Marihuana
Article XV
Transition
1.   Purpose
2.   Proposed Charter; submission to electors
3.   Ballots; form; content
4.   Effective date
5.   First Commission; election; term
6.   Vacancy
7.   Officers and employees continued; exceptions
8.   Claims; orders; contents, etc.; continued
9.   Ordinances; resolutions, etc., continued; exception
10.   Boards; committees; etc., continued
11.   Taxes; assessments; no change; exception
12.   City Commission to adopt procedures for transition
13.   Charter amendment; number votes required for conflicting provisions
14.   Severability
ARTICLE I
ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY GOVERNMENT
Sec. 1. ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY.
   The municipal corporation heretobefore established and now existing and
known as “The City of Mount Pleasant” shall continue as a municipal corporation
under the same name, and the boundaries of the City existing when this Charter
takes effect shall continue in force until changed in accordance with law.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. LEGISLATIVE AND GOVERNING AUTHORITY.
   The City has the comprehensive home rule power conferred upon it by the
Michigan Constitution, subject only to the limitations on the exercise of that
power contained in the Constitution and laws of this State or this Charter. The
City has all other powers which a city may possess under the Constitution and
laws of this State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. GENERAL POWERS - PARTICULAR POWERS.
   The specific mention of particular powers in this Charter shall not be
construed as limiting in any way the general powers of the City stated in this
Article.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. PROVIDE FOR PUBLIC PEACE, HEALTH, SAFETY.
   The City shall provide for the public peace and health and for the safety of
persons of property within the City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
SEC. 5. DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED ELECTOR AND REGISTERED ELECTOR.
   As used in this Charter, the terms "qualified elector" and "registered
elector" are used interchangeably to mean all persons qualified by the
Constitution and the laws of this State to vote in the City who have also
registered to vote in the City as provided by applicable laws and regulations.
(Amendment effective 8-5-08)
ARTICLE II
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Sec. 1. COMMISSION - MANAGER - POWERS.
   The form of government provided for in this Charter shall be known as the
“Commission-Manager Plan.” Except as otherwise provided by law and this
Charter, the Commission shall have full authority to exercise all powers
conferred upon the City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. MEMBERS; NON-PARTISAN.
   The Commission shall consist of seven (7) members elected from the City at-
large on a non-partisan basis.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. QUALIFIED ELECTORS.
   Members of the Commission shall be qualified electors of the City of Mount
Pleasant.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The seven (7) Commissioners shall be elected in two (2) groups, one
group of three (3) and one group of (4). The term of each Commissioner shall
commence on the first day of January following election and shall last for four
(4) years, except as provided for in Article II, Section 4(B).
   (B)   The terms of office for Commissioners who are currently in office at
the time of this Charter amendment shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the two (2) offices that expire on December 31, 2023, there
shall be an election in November 2023 for a three (3) year term each of which
shall expire on December 31, 2026.
      (2)   For the three offices that expire on December 31, 2024, there shall
be an election in November 2024 for a four (4) year term each of which shall
expire on December 31, 2028.
      (3)   For the two offices that expire on December 31, 2022, there shall
be an election in November 2022 for a three (3) year term; however, those terms
shall be extended by one year each and shall both expire on December 31, 2026.
      (4)   After the terms of office provided in this Section B have expired,
the terms of the office shall be as provided in Article II, Section 4(A).
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-8-22)
Sec. 5. REASONS FOR CREATING VACANCY.
   The office of any Commissioner shall become vacant upon the occurrence of
one or more of the following events:
   (A)   For any reason specified by law creating a vacancy.
   (B)   The Commissioner's death.
   (C)   The Commissioner's resignation tendered to the Commission and accepted
by the Commission.
   (D)   The Commissioner's termination of his residency in the City.
   (E)   The Commissioner's absence from five (5) consecutive regular meetings
of the Commission, of fifty percent (50 percent) of the meetings in any fiscal
year, unless the absences are excused by the Commission and the reasons entered
in the proceedings of the Commission.
   (F)   The Commissioner's conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude
in the Courts of any state or the United States.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. ELECTIVE OFFICE - FILLING VACANCIES.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs on the Commission, the remainder of the unexpired
term shall be filled as follows:
   (A)   If twelve (12) months or fewer remain in an unexpired term, within
thirty (30) days the Commission shall appoint a qualified elector to fill the
remainder of the term, except as provided in subsection (C).
   (B)   If more than twelve (12) months remain in an unexpired term, within
thirty (30) days the Commission shall appoint a qualified elector to fill this
office and shall schedule a special election as soon as practicable. The person
appointed by the Commission shall serve until the special election is held and
a candidate is certified as elected and takes office.
   (C)   In the event that three (3) or more vacancies in the Commission exist
simultaneously, or in the event that four (4) or more positions on the
Commission are either vacant or filled by appointment under this section, there
shall be held, as soon as practicable, a special election and all vacancies and
all positions held by appointed Commissioners shall be filled thereby for the
remainder of the respective terms.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. CITY COMMISSION JUDGE OF ELECTION.
   The Commission shall be the judge of the election, the continuing
qualifications of its members, and the grounds causing a vacancy in office.
Decisions by the Commission under this section shall be subject to review by a
Court of competent jurisdiction.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every elected and appointed Commissioner, before commencing official duties,
shall take and subscribe to the following oath:
   “I do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will support the constitutions of the
United States of America and the State of Michigan and the Charter of the City
of Mount Pleasant, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of this
office on behalf of all the citizens of the City to the best of my ability.”
   The commissioner shall file the oath, duly certified by the official before
whom it was taken, in the office of the City Clerk.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 9. MAYOR, ELECTION, TERM; VICE MAYOR.
   At the first meeting in January of each year the Commission shall elect one
of its members to serve as Mayor and one of its members to serve as Vice Mayor.
The Mayor and Vice Mayor shall serve until the first day of January of the next
year, or until their successors take office.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 10. DUTIES OF MAYOR - VICE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be recognized as executive head of the City for all
ceremonial purposes, for the purposes of military law, and for all purposes
required by law and shall have such other duties as prescribed by this Charter.
The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and shall have an
equal voice and vote in the proceedings of the Commission, but shall have no
veto power. The Mayor shall authenticate by signature such instruments as the
Commission, this Charter, or the laws of the State or the United States
require. The Vice Mayor shall act as Mayor during the absence or disability of
the Mayor or, if a vacancy occurs, shall become Mayor for the balance of the
term.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 11. COMMISSIONERS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Each Commissioner shall receive as payment for his-her service on the
Commission a sum of $1,500 per year, the Mayor shall receive $2,000 per year,
except as modified pursuant to the provisions of this section.. Such
compensation shall be payable quarterly and, except as otherwise provided in
this Charter, shall constitute the only remuneration which may be paid for
services performed by the Mayor, Vice Mayor, or any Commissioner for the
discharge of any official duty for or on behalf of the City during a term of
office.
   (B)   A Local Officers Compensation Commission (herein "LOC Commission") is
created which shall determine the salary of each elected City official. The LOC
Commission shall consist of seven (7) members. The members shall be registered
electors of the City, appointed by the Mayor subject to confirmation by the
majority of the members of the City Commission. The terms of office shall be
seven (7) years, except that of the members first appointed, one (1) each shall
be appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5), six
(6) and seven (7) years. The first members shall be appointed within thirty
(30) days after the effective date of this provision. Members other than the
first members shall be appointed before October 1 of the year of appointment.
Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term. A member or
employee of the legislative, judicial or executive branch of government or a
member of the immediate family of a member or employee of the legislative,
judicial or executive branch of government shall not be a member of the LOC
Commission.
   (C)   The LOC Commission shall recommend the salary of each elected City
official. The recommendation shall be the salary if the City Commission, by
resolution adopted by at least a majority of the members elected to and serving
on the City Commission, approve it. If the recommendation is not approved, the
existing salary shall prevail. The recommendation, if approved, shall take
effect at the start of the next fiscal year after the date of approval by the
City Commission. The expense allowance or reimbursement paid to elected
officials in addition to salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of
City business and accounted for to the City Commission, or its designee.
   (D)   The LOC Commission shall meet for not more than fifteen (15) session
days every fifth year and make its recommendation within forty-five (45)
calendar days after its first meeting. A majority of the members of the LOC
Commission constitutes a quorum for conducting the business of the LOC
Commission. The LOC Commission shall not take action or make a recommendation
without a concurrence of the majority of the members appointed and serving on
the LOC Commission. The LOC Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its
members. As used in this section, "SESSION DAY" means a calendar day on which
the LOC Commission meets and a quorum is present. The members of the LOC
Commission shall not receive compensation, but shall be entitled to actual and
necessary expenses incurred in performance of their official duties.
   (E)   The LOC Commission shall comply with the Michigan's Open Meetings Act
(MCL 15.261) and the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (MCL 15.231).
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-5-02; Amendment effective 1-
1-04)
Sec. 12. COMMISSIONERS, EXPENSES; STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   The Commission may reimburse a Commissioner for reasonable expenses incurred
on behalf of the City. Written verification of the expenses must be submitted
to the Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 13. COMMISSIONERS, RETURNS ALL CITY PROPERTY.
   Whenever any Commissioner leaves office, he-she shall deliver to his-her
successor in office, all City property of every kind, name, and nature in his-
her custody, which in any way pertains to his-her office.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 14. COMMISSIONERS: RECALL BY VOTERS.
   Any elected officer provided for in this Charter may be recalled by the
voters of the City in the manner provided by law.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 15. ORGANIZATION MEETING, TIME, PLACE, SPECIAL MEETINGS, NOTICES, QUORUM,
MINUTES.
   (A)   The first meeting of the Commission shall be held for the purpose of
organization at the usual place for holding the meetings of the legislative
body of the City, during January of each year. The City Clerk shall preside at
the first meeting until the Mayor has been selected.
   (B)   The regular meetings of the Commission shall be held at least twice
each month. These meetings shall be held at the Municipal building unless
otherwise provided for by ordinance.
   (C)   Special meetings of the Commission may be called by the City Clerk on
a request of the Mayor, Vice Mayor, or any three (3) Commissioners. The City
Clerk shall notify all Commissioners of any special meeting and the business to
be transacted at that meeting. This notice shall be given to all Commissioners
in writing at least twelve (12) hours before the time of the special meeting.
Notice shall be served personally or delivered to the Commissioners'
residences. However, any special meeting of the Commission at which all members
of the Commission are present or have, in writing, waived the notice
requirement of this subsection and at which a quorum of the Commission is
present, shall be a legal meeting so long as the other provisions of this
section regarding public notice have been properly completed.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall post a notice of the times established for
regular scheduled meetings of the Commission in a conspicuous public area of
the Municipal Building at such times so as to comply with the laws of the
State, and in no event fewer than three (3) days prior to the first regular
scheduled meeting of the Commission. The City Clerk also shall post a notice of
all special meetings and their purposes in a conspicuous public area of the
Municipal Building at such time so as to comply with the laws of the State, but
in no event fewer than eighteen (18) hours prior to the time of the meeting. No
business shall be transacted at a special meeting of the Commission except as
set forth in the notice of the special meeting.
   (E)   Four (4) Commissioners shall be a quorum for the holding of all
meetings of the Commission, but, in the absence of a quorum, two (2)
commissioners may adjourn any regular or special meeting to a later date. When
reconvening an adjourned meeting, notice of the time and place of that meeting
shall be given in the manner required of a special meeting, as set out in
subsection (D), except that in the case of an adjourned regular meeting no
statement of the business to be transacted need be included in the notice.
   (F)   The Commission may adopt rules and bylaws for its procedure that are
not inconsistent with this Charter or the laws of the State. The Commission
shall keep a journal of its proceedings in English.
   (G)   The proceedings of the Commission shall be published in a local
newspaper of general circulation in the City within ten (10) days after each
meeting of the Commission. The publication of a synopsis of these proceedings,
prepared by the City Clerk, showing the substance of each separate action of
the Commission, shall comply with the requirements of this provision.
   (H)   All regular and special meetings of the Commission shall be open to
the public.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-6-12)
Sec. 16. COMMISSIONERS: EMPLOYMENT OTHER OFFICES, APPOINTMENTS BY CITY MANAGER,
RULES DEALING WITH OTHER EMPLOYEES; CONFLICT OF INTEREST, DISPOSAL OF PARK
PROPERTY OR RIVER FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Except where authorized by this Charter, no Commissioner shall hold
any other City office or City employment during the term for which he-she was
elected to the Commission, and no former Commissioner shall hold any
compensated City office or City employment until one (1) year after the
expiration of his term.
   (B)   Neither the Commission nor any of its members, individually, shall
dictate the appointment or removal of any City official or employee whom the
City Manager or any of his-her subordinates are empowered to appoint. The
Commission may express its views and may fully and freely discuss with the City
Manger anything pertaining to the appointment and removal of any official or
employee.
   (C)   The Commission and its members shall deal solely through the City
Manager with officials and employees who are subject to the direction and
supervision of the City Manager. Neither the Commission nor its members,
individually, shall give orders to any official or employee, publicly or
privately.
   (D)   Any Commissioner, City official or employee, when engaging in official
business, shall be guided in his or her action by the appropriate conflict of
interest laws of the State.
   (E)   The Commission shall not have the power to sell, divide, lease,
partition, plat, subdivide, or dispose of any City park, or any part thereof,
unless specifically approved by a majority of the electors voting thereon at
any general or special election.
   (F)   The Commission shall not have the power to sell, divide, lease,
partition, plat, subdivide, or dispose of any City owned interest in real
property which lies within one hundred (100) feet of the edge of the Chippewa
River or its tributaries, as they may exist in their natural state, unless
specifically approved by a majority of the electors voting thereon at any
general or special election. This subsection shall not apply to the normal
operation of a cemetery.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE III
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS
Sec. 1. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS.
   The administrative officials of the City shall be the City Manager, City
Clerk, City Treasurer, City Attorney, and City Assessor. The Commission may
create additional administrative offices or combine administrative offices in
any manner not inconsistent with law or this Charter, and shall prescribe the
duties thereof in order to insure the proper operation of the City government.
No creation of any administrative office or combination of any administrative
offices shall abolish the office of City Manager, nor diminish any of the
duties of that office as set forth in this Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. APPOINTMENTS; PROMOTION ON MERIT.
   All appointments, promotions, and compensation of administrative officials
shall be made solely on evidence of merit and fitness.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. CITY MANAGER; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The City Manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire
Commission for an indefinite term. The appointment shall be solely on the basis
of executive and administrative qualifications. The Commission shall fix his
compensation. The City Manager, once appointed, shall become a resident of the
City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. CITY MANAGER; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; PROCEDURE.
   The Commission may remove the City Manager from office in accordance with
the following procedures:
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt by a majority vote of the entire Commission
a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal. The
resolution shall suspend the City Manager from duty for a period not to exceed
forty-five (45) days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to
the City Manager.
   (B)   Within five (5) days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to
the City Manager, the City Manager may file with the Commission a written
request for a public hearing. This hearing shall be held at a Commission
meeting not earlier than fifteen (15) days nor later than thirty (30) days
after the request is filed. The City Manager shall receive at least ten (10)
days notice of this hearing. The City Manager may file with the Commission a
written reply not later than (5) days before the hearing.
   (C)   If the City Manager has not requested a public hearing, the Commission
may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be made effective
immediately, by a majority vote of the entire Commission at any time after five
(5) days from the date when a copy of the preliminary resolution was delivered
to the City Manager. If the City Manager has requested a public hearing, the
final resolution of removal may be adopted at any time after the hearing.
   (D)   The City Manager shall continue to receive his salary until the
effective date of the final resolution of removal or for thirty (30) days after
the date of adoption of the preliminary resolution, whichever occurs later. The
action of the Commission in suspending or removing the City Manager shall not
be subject to review by any Court.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. APPOINTMENT OF ACTING CITY MANAGER DURING VACANCY.
   Upon the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of City Manager, or upon his
suspension pursuant to Section 4, the Commission, while it is attempting to
fill the office, may appoint an Acting City Manager. This appointment shall not
exceed six (6) months. During this term, the Acting City Manager shall serve at
the will of the Commission and may be immediately removed by a majority vote of
the entire Commission without the necessity of compliance with Section 4.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   When the City Manager is absent from the City or disabled, a qualified City
administrative official shall be designated by the City Manager to exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the City Manager during this absence or
disability. The City Manager shall file with the City Clerk a list, by name and
title, of three (3) qualified City administrative officials to exercise such
powers and perform such duties. The City administrative officials shall be
listed in the order by which each shall be designated to temporarily assume the
City Manger's duties. During this absence or disability, the Commission may
revoke such designation at any time and appoint another City administrative
official to serve until the City Manager shall return or his disability shall
cease.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. CITY MANAGER - DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative official of the City, and
shall be responsible to the Commission for the administration of all City
affairs placed in his charge by this Charter. The City Manager shall have the
following powers and duties:
   (A)   He-she shall appoint and, when he-she deems it necessary for the good
of the City, suspend or remove all City employees and appointive administrative
officials provided for by this Charter, except as otherwise provided by law,
this charter, or personnel rules. He-she may authorize any administrative
official who is subject to his-her direction and supervision to exercise these
powers with respect to subordinates in that official's department, office, or
agency.
   (B)   He-she shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices, and agencies of the City, except as otherwise provided by
law or this Charter.
   (C)   He-she shall attend all Commission meetings and shall have the right
to take part in discussion, but may not vote.
   (D)   He-she shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter, and acts
of the Commission, subject to enforcement by him-her or by officials subject to
his-her direction and supervision, are faithfully executed.
   (E)   He-she shall prepare and submit the Annual Operating Budget and
Capital Program to the Commission.
   (F)   He-she shall submit to the Commission and make available to the public
a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the City and
make such recommendations to the Commission concerning the affairs of the City
as of the end of each fiscal year.
   (G)   He-she shall make such other reports as the Commission may require
concerning the operations of City departments, offices, and agencies.
   (H)   He-she shall keep the Commission fully advised as to the financial
condition and future needs of the City as he-she deems desirable.
   (I)   He-she shall perform such other duties as are specified by law, this
Charter, or the Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. CITY CLERK - APPOINTMENT, DUTIES; JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS, ORDINANCES.
   The City Clerk shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire
Commission for an indefinite term. He-she shall be Clerk of the Commission and
shall, with the Mayor, sign all ordinances. He-she shall keep a permanent
journal of all Commission proceedings and ordinances. In addition, the City
Clerk shall perform all other duties prescribed by law, this Charter, and the
Commission. He-she may be removed by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 9. CITY ATTORNEY - APPOINTMENT, DUTIES.
   The City Attorney shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire
Commission for an indefinite term. He-she shall be the legal advisor for the
city and for all City officials and departments in all matters relating to
their official duties, and shall perform such other duties as the Commission
may require. He-she may be removed by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 10. CITY TREASURER - APPOINTMENT, DUTIES; CITY ASSESSOR - APPOINTMENT,
DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire
Commission for an indefinite term. The Treasurer shall have custody of all
monies of the City and shall perform all other duties prescribed by law, this
Charter, or the Commission. He-she may be removed by a majority vote of the
entire Commission.
   (B)   The City Assessor shall be appointed by a majority vote of the entire
Commission for an indefinite term. He-she shall possess all powers vested in,
and shall be charged with all duties imposed upon, assessing officers by law,
this Charter, or the Commission. He-she may be removed by a majority vote of
the entire Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE IV
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
Sec. 1. HOLDING CITY ELECTIONS; TIME, REGISTRATION, STATE LAW.
   (A)   The regular City election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November in those years in which an election is required.
   (B)   The City Clerk may register electors at places outside of the City
Clerk's offices so as to facilitate the registration of all electors of the
City.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the Constitution and
laws of the State shall apply to the conduct of elections held under this
Charter and the registration of electors in the City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 8-5-08)
Sec. 2. NOMINATING PETITION, FORM, FILING.
   (A)   Candidates for election to the City Commission shall be nominated by
petition. Any qualified elector of the City may be nominated for election by a
petition signed by qualified electors of the City not fewer in number than
fifty (50) nor more in number than eighty (80). The form, size, and contents of
all nominating petitions shall be as provided by the laws of the State. The
City Clerk shall provide nominating petitions for all elected offices. An
individual may circulate his own petition.
   (B)   All separate papers comprising the nominating petition shall be
assembled and filed with the City Clerk as one instrument within the time
limitation set for filing petitions as provided by the laws of the State,
except that no nominating petition may be filed sooner than thirty (30) days
before the last day set for filing petitions. The City Clerk shall make a
record of the exact time when each petition is filed. No nominating petition
shall be accepted for filing by the City Clerk unless accompanied by a signed
acceptance of the nomination.
   (C)   Within five (5) days after the filing of the nominating petition,
excluding weekends and holidays, the City Clerk shall notify the candidate and
the person who filed the petition whether it satisfies the requirements
prescribed by this Article. If the petition is found insufficient, the City
Clerk shall return it immediately to the person who filed it with a statement
certifying wherein it is insufficient. Within the regular time limit for filing
petitions, the original petition may be amended and filed again as a new
petition, or another petition may be filed for the same candidate. The City
Clerk shall keep on file all petitions found sufficient at least until the
expiration of the term for which the candidates are nominated in those
petitions.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. CHALLENGERS AT POLLING PLACES.
   A regularly nominated candidate shall be entitled, upon written application
to the City Clerk at least ten (10) days before the election, to appoint
individuals to represent the candidate as challengers at each polling place
where voters may cast their ballots for him-her, but at no time shall more than
one (1) challenger per candidate be at each polling place. A person so
appointed shall have all the rights and privileges prescribed for challengers
under the general election laws of the State. The challengers may exercise
their rights through the voting and until the ballots have been counted.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. VOTES FOR COMMISSION.
   Every voter shall be entitled to vote for as many candidates for the
Commission as there are Commissioners to be elected.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. SPECIAL ELECTION; RESOLUTION BY COMMISSION.
   Special elections shall be held when called by resolution of the Commission,
setting forth the purpose of this election. At least forty-five (45) days
notice must be given of a special election.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE V
ORDINANCES
Sec. 1. COMMISSION; LEGISLATURE.
   The legislative power of the City is vested exclusively in the Commission,
except as otherwise provided by law.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. LEGISLATION BY ORDINANCE, RESOLUTION.
   (A)   All legislation of the City shall be by ordinance or by resolution.
   (B)   The power of the Commission to act by resolution is limited to matters
required or permitted by law or this Charter, and to matters pertaining to the
internal concerns of the City.
   (C)   The Commission shall act by ordinance when establishing a rule or
regulation which provides for a penalty, when amending or repealing an
ordinance previously adopted, or when required by law or this Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. RESOLUTION, OFFICIAL ACTION OF COMMISSION.
   A resolution is the official action of the Commission in the form of a
motion adopted by a majority vote of the entire Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. ORDINANCE, FORM, PUBLICATION OF SUMMARY, PUBLIC HEARING, PUBLICATION,
EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing. No ordinance
shall contain more than one (1) subject, and the ordinance title must clearly
express that subject. The enacting clause shall be “It is Hereby Ordained by
the People of the City of Mount Pleasant . . .”
   (B)   Following introduction of any ordinance, the City Clerk shall publish
a summary of the proposed ordinance in a local newspaper of general circulation
in the City together with a notice setting out the time and place for a public
hearing on the proposed ordinance. The public hearing may not be held sooner
than five (5) days after the publication. Copies of the ordinance shall be
distributed without charge at the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   After the public hearing, the Commission may consider enacting the
proposed ordinance. The enactment of an ordinance shall require a majority vote
of the entire Commission.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by law and this Charter, each ordinance,
including emergency ordinances, shall be published in full, together with a
summary, in a local newspaper of general circulation in the City at least one
(1) time within ten (10) days after its adoption by the Commission. The
publication of an ordinance in full as a part of the a published proceedings of
the Commission shall not constitute publication of such ordinance as required
herein.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by law and this Charter, every ordinance
shall become effective on the thirtieth (30th) day after enactment or at any
later date specified therein.
   (F)   An Ordinance which repeals or amends any existing ordinance or part of
the City Code shall identify, by title and number, the ordinance, sections, or
subsections to be repealed or amended, and shall clearly indicate the matter to
be omitted and the new matter to be added.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. EMERGENCY ORDINANCE - DEFINITION, FORM, VOTES REQUIRED; REPEAL.
   (A)   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, or property, one or
more emergency ordinances may be enacted. However, an emergency ordinance may
not levy taxes, grant, renew, or extend a franchise, or regulate the rate
charged by any public utility for its service.
   (B)   An emergency ordinance shall be introduced in the form and manner
required for ordinances generally, except that it shall contain after the
enacting clause, a declaration stating that an emergency exists, and describing
the emergency in clear, specific terms.
   (C)   An emergency ordinance may be enacted on the date of introduction and
given immediate effect by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Commissioners present
at the time of enactment.
   (D)   Every emergency ordinance is automatically repealed on the sixty-first
(61st) day after its enactment, unless re-enacted pursuant to Section 4.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. SAME; PENALTIES.
   An ordinance may provide a penalty for the violation of its provisions. The
penalty shall not exceed the limits provided by law.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. RECORD OF ORDINANCES, SIGNATURES.
   All ordinances shall be recorded in an index book marked “City Ordinances,”
and a record of each ordinance shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Mayor and Clerk. Such record and authentication shall be done within thirty
(30) days after the final passage of any ordinance. If any ordinance, other
than an emergency ordinance, is not so authenticated and recorded within thirty
(30) days after final passage, the ordinance shall not take effect until seven
(7) days after notice, that the ordinance has been properly authenticated and
recorded, has been published in a local newspaper of general circulation in the
City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES, TIME REQUIRED, COPIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within three (3) years after the effective date of this Charter, and
at least every ten (10) years thereafter, the Commission shall provide for the
preparation of a general codification of all City ordinances and resolutions
having the effect of law.
   (B)   The general codification shall be enacted by ordinance and be known as
the Mount Pleasant City Code. Copies of the Code shall be furnished to City
officials, placed in libraries and public offices for free public reference,
and made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price to be fixed
by the Commission. Except as required by law, the enactment of this ordinance
need not comply with the requirements of Section 4.
   (C)   After publication of the first Mount Pleasant City Code, new
ordinances and resolutions shall be printed annually in a form for integration
with the Code currently in effect.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE VI
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
Sec. 1. INITIATIVE; REFERENDUM; ELECTOR'S POWER TO RECONSIDER ADOPTED
ORDINANCE.
   (A)   INITIATIVE: The qualified electors of the City shall have power to
propose ordinances to the Commission. If the Commission fails to adopt the
proposed ordinance or adopts the ordinance, but changes its substance, the
proposed ordinance shall be submitted to the electors for adoption or rejection
at a City election, provided that such power shall not extend to the Annual
Operating Budget or Capital Program or any ordinance relating to appropriation
of money or levy of taxes.
   (B)   REFERENDUM: The qualified electors of the City shall have power to
required the Commission to reconsider any adopted ordinance. If the Commission
fails to repeal an ordinance so reconsidered, the ordinance shall be submitted
to the electors for approval or rejection at a City Election, provided that
such power shall not extend to the Annual Budget or Capital Program, any
emergency ordinance, or any ordinance relating to the appropriation of money or
levy of taxes.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. PETITION; CLERK TO PROVIDE FORM.
   (A)   Any five (5) qualified electors may commence initiative or referendum
proceedings by filing an affidavit with the City Clerk stating they will
constitute the petitioner's committee and will be responsible for circulating
the petition and filing it in proper form. The affidavit shall state their
names and addresses, shall specify the address to which all notices to the
committee are to be sent, and shall set forth in full the proposed initiative
ordinance or cite the ordinance sought to be reconsidered.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue blank forms for petitions upon request.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. PETITION - SIGNATURES REQUIRED, FORM, FILING TIME.
   (A)   Initiative and referendum petitions must be signed by qualified,
registered electors of the City equal to not less than 18% of the number of
votes cast for candidates for the office of governor at the last preceding
general election in the City.
   (B)   All papers of a petition shall be uniform in size and style and shall
be executed in ink or indelible pencil, followed by the address of the person
signing. Throughout their circulation, the petitions shall contain or have
attached the full text of the ordinance proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
   (C)   Each paper of a petition shall have attached, when filed, an affidavit
executed by the circulator thereof stating that the circulator personally
circulated the paper, the number of signatures thereon, that all the were
affixed in the circulator's presence, that the circulator believes them to be
the genuine signatures of the persons whose names they purport to be, and that
each signer had an opportunity before signing to read the full text of the
ordinance proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
   (D)   Referendum petitions must be filed within thirty (30) days after the
Commission adopts the ordinance sought to be reconsidered. Initiative petitions
must be filed within one hundred and eighty (180) days after filing of the
affidavit of the petitioner's committee.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 8-5-08)
Sec. 4. CERTIFICATION BY CLERK, PRESENTATION TO CITY COMMISSION, FINAL
DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Within 20 days after the petition is filed, the City Clerk shall
complete a certificate as to its sufficiency, specifying if it is insufficient,
the particulars wherein it is defective and shall promptly send a copy of the
certificate to the petitioners' committee by certified mail. A petition
certified insufficient for lack of the required number of valid signatures may
be amended once if the petitioners' committee files a notice of intention to
amend the petition with the City Clerk within two (2) days after receiving the
copy of the City Clerk's certificate, excluding weekends and holidays. The
amended petition must be filed within ten (10) days after receiving the copy of
the certificate. The amended petition shall comply with the requirements of
subsection (B) and (C) of Section 3. Within five (5) days after it is filed,
excluding weekends and holidays, the City Clerk shall complete a certificate as
to the sufficiency of the petition, as amended, and promptly send a copy of
such certificate to the petitioners' committee by certified mail. If a petition
or amended petition is certified sufficient, or if a petition or amended
petition is certified insufficient and the petitioners' committee does not
elect to amend or request Commission review under subsection (B) of this
Section within the time required, the City Clerk shall then be a final
determination as to the sufficiency of the petition.
   (B)   If a petition has been certified insufficient and the petitioners'
committee does not file notice of intention to amend it or if an amended
petition has been certified insufficient, the committee, within two (2) days
after receiving the copy of such certificate, excluding weekends and holidays,
may file a request that it be reviewed by the Commission. The Commission shall
review the certificate at its next meeting following the filing of such request
and approve or disapprove it, and the Commission's determination shall then be
a final determination as to the sufficiency of the petition.
   (C)   A final determination as to the sufficiency of a petition shall be
subject to review by a Court of competent jurisdiction. A final determination
of insufficiency, even if sustained upon court review, shall not prejudice the
filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. REFERENDUM PETITION; PROCEDURE.
   When a referendum petition is timely filed with the City Clerk, the
ordinance sought to be reconsidered shall be suspended from taking effect. Such
suspension shall terminate when:
   (A)   There is final determination of insufficiency of the petition, or
   (B)   Thirty (30) days have elapsed after an affirmative vote by the
electors on the ordinance.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. CONSIDERATION BY COMMISSION, SUBMISSION TO VOTERS.
   (A)   When an initiative or referendum petition has been finally determined
sufficient, the Commission shall promptly consider the proposed initiative
ordinance or reconsider the referred ordinance in the manner provided in
Article V. If the Commission fails to adopt a proposed initiative ordinance
without any change in substance within sixty (60) days or fails to repeal the
referred ordinance within forty-five (45) days after the date of the petition
was finally determined sufficient, it shall submit the proposed or referred
ordinance to the electors of the City.
   (B)   The vote of the City on a proposed or referred ordinance shall be held
not sooner than thirty (30) days and not later than one (1) year from the date
of the final Commission determination. If no regular City election is to be
held within the period prescribed in this subsection, the Commission shall
provide for a special election. Otherwise, the vote shall be held at the same
time as the next regular election, except that the Commission may in its
discretion provide for a special election at an earlier date within the
prescribed period. Copies of the proposed or referred ordinance shall be made
available at the polls.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. ADOPTION BY ELECTORS; REPEAL.
   (A)   If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a proposed
initiative ordinance vote in its favor, it shall be considered adopted upon
certification of the election results and shall be treated in all respects in
the same manner as ordinances adopted by the Commission. If conflicting
ordinances are approved at the same election, the one receiving the greatest
number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent of conflict.
   (B)   If a majority of the qualified electors voting on a referred ordinance
vote against it, the ordinance shall be considered repealed upon certification
of the election.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. AMENDMENTS BY COMMISSION; TIME REQUIRED.
   The Commission shall have no authority to adopt an amendment or to repeal an
initiative ordinance or referred ordinance that has been approved by a majority
vote of the qualified electors until twenty-four (24) months after its
approval.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE VII
GENERAL FINANCES
Sec. 1. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the City shall begin on January 1st and end December
31st of each year.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. CAPITAL BUDGET; DATE REQUIRED, ESTIMATES; METHODS FOR FINANCING.
   On or before the first Commission meeting in April, the City Manager shall
submit to the Commission a proposed Capital Budget for the next five (5) fiscal
years. The Budget shall state:
   (A)   A clear general summary of its contents.
   (B)   A list of all major capital improvements which are proposed to be
undertaken during the five (5) years next ensuing, with appropriate supporting
information as to the necessity for such improvements.
   (C)   Cost estimates, method of financing, and recommended tax schedules for
each such improvement.
   (D)   The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining the facilities
to be constructed or acquired.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-6-90)
Sec. 3. REVIEW PREVIOUS BUDGET.
   Previously adopted Capital Budgets may be revised and extended each year
with regard to capital improvements still pending or in the process of
construction or acquisition.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. PUBLICATION; COPIES AVAILABLE, TIME, PLACE.
   The Commission shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
City a general summary of the Capital Budget and a notice stating:
   (A)   The times and places where copies of the Capital budget are available
for inspection by the public, and
   (B)   The time and place, not sooner than two (2) weeks after the
publication, for a public hearing on the Capital Budget.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. ADOPTION; DATE REQUIRED.
   The Commission shall adopt by resolution the Capital Budget with or without
amendments after the public hearing and on or before the first Commission
meeting in June.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-6-90)
Sec. 6. ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET, SUBMISSION TO COMMISSION.
   On or before the first Commission meeting in September, the City Manager
shall submit to the Commission a proposed Annual Operating Budget for the next
fiscal year.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-6-90)
Sec. 7. ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET; CONTENTS.
   The Proposed Annual Operating Budget shall provide a complete financing plan
for the next fiscal year of all City funds and activities including capital
expenditures, and, except as required by law or this Charter, shall be in such
form as the City Manager deems desirable or the Commission may require. The
proposed Annual Operating Budget shall begin with a clear summary of its
contents, shall show in detail all estimated income, indicating the proposed
property tax levy and all proposed expenditures, including debts for the next
fiscal year, and shall be so arranged as to show comparative figures or
estimated income and expenditures for the preceding fiscal year, and shall
provide such other information as may be required by the Commission.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED, NOTICE, COPIES AVAILABLE.
   Before the final adoption of the Annual Operating Budget, a public hearing
shall be held at which the proposed Annual Operating Budget shall be presented.
The time and place of the hearing shall be determined by the Commission and
notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the City at least two (2) weeks before the hearing. At the hearing all
interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard for or against any
item in the proposed Annual Operating Budget. A copy of the proposed Annual
Operating Budget shall be on file and available to the public for inspection
during office hours at the office of the City Clerk for a period of not fewer
than ten (10) days prior to this hearing.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 9. ADOPTION, DATE, APPROPRIATION FOR CURRENT EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Commission shall review the proposed Annual Operating Budget and
shall make modifications as it deems advisable. Not later than the last
Commission meeting in December, the Commission shall adopt by resolution the
Annual Operating Budget for the next fiscal year, and shall provide in such
resolution for a levy, if necessary, to be raised by a tax upon real and
personal property.
   (B)   [Deleted by amendment effective November 6, 1990.]
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-6-90)
Sec. 10. BUDGET; ADJUSTMENTS DURING YEAR.
   (A)   If the City Manager certifies during the fiscal year that there are
available revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget, the Commission
by resolution may make supplemental appropriations up to the amount of such
excess revenues.
   (B)   If it appears probable to the City Manager during the fiscal year that
the revenues available will be insufficient to meet the amount appropriated,
the City Manager shall report to the Commission without delay, indicating the
estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial action taken and recommendations
as to any other steps to be taken. The Commission shall then take such further
action as it deems necessary to prevent any deficit, and for that purpose it
may reduce by resolution one or more appropriations.
   (C)   At any time during the fiscal year, the City Manager may transfer part
or all of any unencumbered appropriation balance among programs within a
department office, or agency. Upon written request by the City Manager, the
Commission may transfer by resolution part or all of any unencumbered
appropriation balance from one department, office, or agency to another.
   (D)   No appropriation for debt service may be reduced or transferred, and
no appropriation may be reduced below any amount required by law to be
appropriated or by more than the amount of the unencumbered balance thereof.
The supplemental and emergency appropriations and the reduction or transfer of
appropriations authorized by this section may be made effective immediately
upon adoption.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-6-90)
Sec. 11. BALANCES NOT ENCUMBERED REVERT TO GENERAL FUND.
   Except as provided by law, the balance in any General Fund appropriation
which has not been encumbered at the end of the fiscal year, other than that of
or pertaining to any municipal utility, shall revert to the general fund.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 12. EMERGENCY APPROPRIATIONS BY CITY COMMISSION.
   To meet a public emergency affecting life, health, or property the
Commission may make emergency appropriations. Such appropriations may be made
by emergency ordinance in accordance with the provisions of Article V. To the
extent that there are no available unappropriated revenues to meet such
appropriations, the Commission may authorize by such emergency ordinance the
issuance of emergency notes in accordance with Article X.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 13. PROVIDE BY RESOLUTION APPROPRIATE METHODS AND SAFEGUARDS FOR
EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   The Commission shall provide by resolution appropriate methods and
safeguards for the expenditure of funds and the payment of obligations so as to
insure that no payment shall be made or obligation incurred without an
appropriation having first been approved by the Commission, without a
sufficient unencumbered balance in the appropriation, and without insuring that
sufficient funds are or will be available to cover the claim or meet the
obligation when it becomes due and payable. However, except when prohibited by
law, nothing in this Charter shall be construed to prevent the making or
authorizing of payments or the making of contracts for capital improvements to
be financed wholly or partly by the issuance of bonds, or to prevent the making
of any contract or lease providing for payments beyond the end of the fiscal
year. Any such action must be approved by ordinance.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-8-77)
Sec. 14. DESIGNATE DEPOSITORIES - PROVIDE SECURITY FOR DEPOSITS.
   The Commission shall designate the depository or depositories for the City
funds, and shall provide for the regular deposit of all City monies. The
Commission shall provide for such security for City deposits as is authorized
or permitted by law, except that personal surety bonds shall not be deemed
proper security.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 15. AUDIT REQUIRED.
   An independent audit of all accounts and financial records of the City shall
be made annually. Such audit shall be made by a certified public accountant
experienced in municipal accounting within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the close of the fiscal year. The Commission may secure additional audits at
any time. Each audit, in its entirety, shall be made available for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk and at the Public Library.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 16. ACCOUNTING SYSTEM CONFORM TO LAWS OF STATE.
   The accounting system of the City shall conform to any uniform system of
municipal accounting that may be provided by the laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 17. PRESCRIBE METHODS FOR FINANCIAL - CONTRACTUAL DEALINGS, BIDDING.
   The Commission shall prescribe by resolution a general framework of
necessary procedures governing financial and contractual dealings with the
City. Such resolution shall include a maximum consideration below which
purchases may be made by the city officials and employees either without
specific authorization from the Commission, or without the necessity of
competitive bidding, or both. In addition, such resolution shall include a
requirement that in all cases of contract by competitive bidding, the
Commission shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids submitted, and
provisions for such rejection and notices of such right of rejection shall be
incorporated in all requests for bids.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE VIII
TAXATION
Sec. 1. POWER TO ASSESS TAXES, METHODS.
   (A)   In order to carry out the purposes, powers, and duties of the City
Government established by this Charter, the City shall have the power to assess
taxes and to lay and collect rents, tolls, and excises. The annual general ad
valorem tax levy for municipal purposes shall not exceed two percent (2
percent) of the State equalized value of all real and personal property in the
City.
   (B)   If the method of calculating the State equalized value of real and
personal property is changed from its present method of fifty percent (50
percent) of the fair market value, the amount of the annual general ad valorem
tax levy for municipal purposes that the City is permitted to collect shall be
adjusted inversely, in a proportional amount, but in no event shall the amount
permitted to be taxed under this provision exceed the amount permitted to be
taxed by the laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. SUBJECTS OF TAXATION.
   The subjects of taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same as for
State, County, and school purposes under the general tax laws of the State, and
the City shall have the rights, liens, powers, and remedies accorded by law to
any political subdivision of the State in connection with the collection of
taxes.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. CITY TAXES COLLECTED ACCORDING TO STATE LAW.
   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the City taxes shall be levied
and collected in the manner provided by the general tax laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. POWER OF TAXATION NOT SURRENDERED.
   The power of taxation shall never be surrendered nor suspended by any grant
or contract to which the City shall be a party. No exemptions from taxation
shall be allowed except as are expressly required or permitted by law.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. ASSESSMENT ROLL; PREPARED BY CITY ASSESSOR.
   The City Assessor shall make and complete an assessment roll in the manner
and form provided in the general tax laws of the State and at the time required
by the general tax laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. BOARD OF REVIEW; AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   The authority and duties of the Board of Review, except as otherwise
provided by this Charter, shall be performed in the same manner provided in the
General Property Tax Laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-8-83)
SECS. 7 - 12.
   [Deleted by amendment approved November 8, 1983.]
Sec. 13. ENDORSE STATEMENT CONFIRMING ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   After the Board of Review completes its review of the assessment roll, the
majority of its members shall immediately endorse thereon and sign a statement
to the effect that the same is the assessment roll of the City for the year in
which it has been prepared. The omission of this endorsement shall not affect
the validity of this roll. Upon completion, the roll shall be the assessment
roll of the city for County, school, and City taxes and for any other taxes on
real or personal property that may be authorized by law. The assessment roll
shall be conclusively presumed by all Courts and tribunals to be valid and
shall not be set aside except for causes set forth in this general tax laws of
the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 14. ADOPTION OF BUDGET; CLERK CERTIFIES.
   After the Commission has adopted the budget for the ensuing year, the City
Clerk shall certify to the City Assessor the total amount which the Commission
determines shall be raised by general taxes, all amounts of special assessments
which the Commission requires to be assessed or reassessed upon any property or
against any person, and all other amounts which the Commission may determine
shall be charged, assessed or reassessed against any person or property.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 15. ASSESSMENT ROLL, ASSESSOR CERTIFIES.
   After the confirmation of the assessment roll, the City Assessor shall
certify a copy of the assessment roll to the City Treasurer. The assessment
roll shall be delivered to the Treasurer before May 1st each year. Thereafter,
the City Treasurer shall spread the several taxes to be raised upon this
certified copy of the assessment roll and this shall constitute the City tax
roll for the current year. To avoid fractions and computations on any tax roll,
the City Treasurer may add to the amount of the several taxes to be raised an
amount prescribed by statute. This added amount, when collected, shall belong
to the City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 16. TAX ROLL, COLLECTION, TREASURER'S POWER.
   After spreading the taxes, the City Treasurer shall collect from the persons
named in the tax roll the various sums stated. The City Treasurer is granted,
for the purpose of collecting the taxes, assessments, and charges on the tax
roll, all the powers and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collection of taxes under the general tax laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 17. LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The City taxes assessed shall become due on July 1st of each year, and the
amounts assessed on any interest in real property shall become a lien upon such
property at the time provided by the general tax laws of the State, and the
lien for these amounts and for all interest and other charges shall continue
until these sums are paid. All personal property taxes shall be a first lien,
prior, superior, and paramount, upon all personal property of the persons
assessed at the time provided by the general tax laws of the State and shall
remain so until paid. These tax liens shall have precedence over all other
claims, encumbrances, and liens upon the property, whether created by a
security agreement, levy, judgement, or otherwise, and whether arising before
or after the assessment of the personal property taxes. No transfer of personal
property assessed for taxes shall operate to divest or destroy this lien except
when such personal property is actually sold in the regular court of retail
trade.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-5-85)
Sec. 18. UNPAID TAXES; SALE OF LANDS.
   The City Treasurer shall have the same power and authority as conferred by
law upon township treasurers for collecting taxes by suit, by distraint, or by
the sale of goods and chattels. All proceedings for the return and collection
of unpaid taxes, the sale of lands for payment of taxes, and all other
proceedings necessary in the enforcement of these taxes, shall be in all
respects, so far as applicable, the same as are set by the general tax laws of
the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 19. TAXES, DUE DATE, PENALTIES.
   City taxes shall be due on July 1st of the year when levied. All taxes paid
on or before July 31st shall be collected by the City Treasurer without
penalty. An additional charge of one percent (1%) shall be added to all unpaid
City taxes on August 1st and an additional charge of one percent (1%) shall be
added to all delinquent unpaid taxes on the first day of each month thereafter
until the taxes are paid. This added penalty shall belong to the City and shall
constitute a charge and shall be a lien against the property to which the taxes
themselves apply, collectable in the same manner as the taxes to which they are
added. If July 31st falls on a Sunday or a legal holiday, taxes shall be
collected without penalty on the next business day.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-5-85; Amendment effective 11-
5-02)
Sec. 20. NOTICE TO TAXPAYERS; PUBLICATION; STATEMENT TO TAXPAYERS.
   The City Treasurer shall give notice to the taxpayers of the City not later
than June 1st of each year by publication in a local newspaper of general
circulation in the City, of the time when the City taxes will be due and when
they can be paid without penalty, and that one percent (1 percent) penalty per
month will be charged upon all taxes remaining unpaid after August 1st. As soon
as practical after the completion of the tax roll, and in no event later than
July 1st, the City Treasurer shall forward a statement of the taxes due, by
first class mail addressed to the owners of the property upon which taxes are
assessed, as indicated by the tax roll.
   Failure on the part of the City Treasurer to mail this statement shall not
invalidate the taxes on the tax roll or relieve the personal property assessed
from the penalties provided by this Article or by the general tax laws of the
State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-5-85)
Sec. 21. UNPAID TAXES; RETURN TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   Any taxes on the City tax roll which remain unpaid on March 1st following
the date when the roll was received by the City Treasurer shall be returned to
the County Treasurer in the same manner and with like effect as returns by
township treasurers of Township, school and County taxes. These returns shall
be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the City Treasurer and
shall include all the additional charges and fees hereinbefore provided. These
charges and fees shall, in these returns be added to the amount assessed on the
tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returned shall be collected
in the same manner as other taxes returned to the County Treasurer, and shall
remain a lien upon the assessed lands until paid.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 22. TAX OR PUBLIC SALE; POWER.
   The City shall have power to purchase any property within the City at any
tax or other public sale, or to purchase the property directly from the State
or the fee owner, when such purchase is necessary to protect the lien of the
City for taxes or special assessments. The City may hold, lease or sell this
property. Any such procedure exercised by the City in the protection of its
lien shall be deemed to be for public purpose.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 23. ASSESSING AND COLLECTING TAXES; STATE LAW.
   For the purpose of assessing and collecting taxes in the City for State,
County and School purposes, the City shall be considered the same as a Township
and shall collect and account for these taxes, penalties and interest in the
method provided by the general tax laws of the State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 24. ENFORCEMENT OF TAX LAWS, CITY COMMISSION.
   In all matters where this Charter does not fully or adequately provide for
the levy and collection of the City, State, County, School and other taxes, the
City Commission shall have the power and authority to adopt additional
ordinances necessary to carry out and enforce the general tax laws of the
State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE IX
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Sec. 1. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; RESOLUTION REQUIRED.
   The Commission shall have the power to determine the necessity of any local
or public improvement, including public parking facilities and boulevard
lighting systems, and to determine that the whole or any part of the costs
thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefited, and shall so declare by resolution, provided that all special
assessments levied shall be based upon or be in proportion to the benefits
derived or to be derived. Such resolution shall state the estimated cost of the
improvement, what proportion of the costs shall be paid by special assessment,
what part, if any, shall be a general obligation of the City, the number of
installments in which assessments may be paid, the interest rate on any unpaid
assessment, if any, the date on which any such interest shall commence, and
shall designate the districts or land and property on which special assessments
shall be levied.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. ADOPT ORDINANCE, ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   The commission shall prescribe by general ordinance the complete special
assessment procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and
specifications, estimates of cost, notice of hearings, making and confirming
assessment rolls in advance of starting the improvement, the correction of
errors in the assessment rolls, collection of special assessments, the
assessment of single lots or parcels, and any other matters concerning the
making of improvements by the special assessment method, subject to the
provisions of this Charter and the laws of the State. The ordinance shall
authorize additional assessments, if the prior assessment proves insufficient
to pay for the improvement or is determined to be invalid, in whole or in part.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. PETITION OBJECTING, PERCENTAGE REQUIRED BY OWNERS, VOTE REQUIRED TO
CONFIRM.
   If, before final confirmation of any special assessment, more than fifty
percent (50 percent) of the owners to be assessed in a special assessment
district or the owner or owners who will bear more than fifty percent (50
percent) of the total cost of the proposed improvement, including that portion
of the project to be borne by the City, shall object in writing to the proposed
improvement, the proposed improvement shall not be made by the proceedings
authorized in this Charter without an affirmative vote of five (5) of the
Commissioners, provided that this section shall not apply to sidewalk
improvement.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. EXCESS ROLL; METHOD OF REFUND.
   The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than the actual
cost of expenses incidental thereto shall be refunded on a pro-rata basis to
the owners of the property assessed. This refund shall be made by credit
against future unpaid installments to the extent that installments are still
owing, and the balance of the refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made
which contravene the provisions of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness
secured in whole or in part by the special assessment.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   From the date of confirmation of any roll levying any special assessment,
the full amount of any special assessment and any interest thereon shall be a
lien upon the property subject thereto and shall be a debt of the person to
whom assessed until paid. This lien shall be of the same character and effect
as the lien created by this Charter for City taxes. The assessment shall be
levied upon the respective lots and premises to which they are specially
assessed, and against the persons chargeable therewith, as a tax in the next
City tax roll in a column for special assessments. The amount so levied shall
be enforced and collected in the same manner as other taxes and when collected
shall be paid into the City Treasury.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. ORDINANCE; NECESSARY PROCEDURE.
   In any case where the provisions of this Charter, either expressed or
incorporated herein, may prove to be insufficient to carry in to full effect
the making of any special assessment, the Commission shall provide by general
ordinance any additional steps or procedures required to effect the improvement
by special assessment.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE X
BORROWING POWER
Sec. 1. BONDS, ISSUANCE, ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION REQUIRED.
   Subject to the laws of this State and this Charter, the Commission, by
ordinance or resolution, may authorize the borrowing of money for any purpose
within the scope of the powers of the City, including parking facilities,
boulevard lighting, and the City's share of the cost of any local improvement,
and may issue bonds of the City or other evidence of indebtedness therefore,
and may pledge the full faith, credit and resources of the City for payment of
the obligation created thereby.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. BORROWING IN ANTICIPATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Subject to the laws of the State, the Commission shall have authorization to
borrow money in anticipation of the payment of special assessments made for the
purpose of defraying the cost of any local improvements, or in anticipation of
the payment of any combination of such special assessments, and to issue bonds
therefor. Such special assessment bonds may be an obligation of the special
assessment district or districts or may be both an obligation of the special
assessment district or districts and a general obligation of the City. All
collections of each special assessment roll or combination of rolls shall be
set apart in a separate fund for the payment of the principal and interest of
the bond issued in anticipation of such special assessment and shall be used
for no other purpose.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. NOTICE REQUIRED, CONTENTS.
   The issuance of any bonds not requiring the approval of the electors shall
be subject to applicable requirements of the laws of the State and with regard
to public notice in advance of the authorization of these bonds, filing of
petitions for a referendum on these bonds, holding of a referendum, and other
applicable procedures.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. BONDED INDEBTEDNESS.
   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not at
any time exceed the limit permitted by the Constitution and laws of the State,
provided that in computing such net bonded indebtedness there shall be excluded
those bonds permitted to be so excluded by the Constitution and laws of the
State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. BOND; REQUIRE STATEMENT OF PURCHASE, MAYOR AND CLERK SIGNATURES, RECORD
BY CLERK.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose for which it is issued, and it shall be
unlawful for any official of the City to use the proceeds of the bond for any
other purpose. All bonds and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the City
shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk under the seal
of the City. Interest coupons may be executed with the facsimile signatures of
the Mayor and City Clerk. A complete and detailed record of all bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness issued by the City shall be kept by the City Clerk.
Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same shall
be marked “Cancelled.”
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. UNISSUED BONDS; LIMIT NUMBER OF YEARS FOR SELLING.
   No unissued bonds of the City shall be issued or sold to secure funds for
any purpose other than that for which they were specifically authorized, and if
such bonds are not sold within three (3) years after authorization, such
authorization shall be null and void.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE XI
FRANCHISES
Sec. 1. FRANCHISES; AUTHORITY TO GRANT.
   The City may grant a franchise or license to any person for the use of the
streets, alleys, bridges, and other public places of the City for the
furnishing of any public utility service to the City and its inhabitants.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. FRANCHISES; ORDINANCE REQUIRED, EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE PROHIBITED,
DURATION.
   Public utility franchises and all renewals, extensions, and amendments shall
be only granted by ordinance. No exclusive franchise shall ever be granted. No
franchise shall be granted for a longer period than thirty (30) years.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. FRANCHISE ORDINANCE, RENEWAL, CONDITIONS FOR SAME, SUBJECT TO CHANGE BY
CITY COMMISSION.
   A franchise ordinance, renewal, extension, or amendment which is subject to
revocation at the will of the Commission may be enacted by the Commission
without referral to the voters, but shall not be enacted unless the following
has occurred:
   (A)   Thirty (30) days have elapsed since the application has been made.
   (B)   A public hearing has been held on the proposed ordinance.
   (C)   The grantee has filed with the City Clerk an unconditional acceptance
of all terms of such franchise.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. FRANCHISE ORDINANCE, RENEWAL, CONDITIONS FOR SAME, NOT SUBJECT TO
CHANGE BY CITY COMMISSION.
   A franchise ordinance, renewal, extension, or amendment which is not subject
to revocation at the will of the Commission shall not be enacted or become
operative, unless the proposition shall first have been approved by three-
fifths (3/5ths) of the electors voting thereon.
   (A)   The commission may approve franchise ordinance for referral to the
electorate, only after the following has occurred:
      (1)   Thirty (30) days have elapsed since the application has been made.
      (2)   A public hearing has been held on the proposed ordinance.
      (3)   The grantee has filed with the City Clerk an unconditional
acceptance of all terms of such franchise.
   (B)   No special election for approval of a franchise ordinance shall be
ordered by the Commission unless the expense of holding the election, as
determined by the Commission, shall have first been paid to the City Treasurer
by the proposed grantee.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. ENUMERATION NOT LIMITATION; COMMISSION AUTHORITY.
   Any public utility franchise granted after adoption of this Charter, whether
or not provided in the granting ordinance, shall be subject to the following
rights of the City. Enumeration of these rights shall not exclude nor impair
the right of the Commission to assert in the franchise any additional provision
within the power of the City to impose or require:
   (A)   To repeal the franchise for misuse, non use, or failure to comply with
the provisions thereof.
   (B)   To require proper and adequate extension and maintenance of plant
facilities at the highest practicable standard of efficiency.
   (C)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and to prevent unjust discrimination in service and rates.
   (D)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise.
   (E)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the
Commission to be conducive to the health, safety, welfare and convenience of
the public.
   (F)   To require the public utility to permit joint use by the City and
other utilities of its property and equipment located in the streets and public
places of the City, insofar as joint use may be reasonable and practicable and
in the absence of agreement, to provide for binding arbitration of the terms
and conditions of their joint use.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISE, RESTRICTIONS.
   No public utility franchise granted by the City shall be sold or transferred
in any manner, nor may a party other than the grantee use the franchise unless
the City gives its consent by ordinance, as required by this Article.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. PUBLIC UTILITY, FRANCHISE, RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   Except as provided by law, all public utility franchises shall make
provision for fixing rates, fares, and charges and may provide for
readjustments at periodic intervals.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. GRANTEE TO PAY COST OF IMPROVEMENT, MAINTENANCE OF STREETS, ETC.
   Every grantee of a public utility franchise shall pay such part of the cost
of improvement or maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges, and public places as
shall arise from its use and shall protect and save the City harmless from all
damage arising from this use.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 9. ORDINANCE, TERMS, FEES.
   The Commission shall prescribe by ordinance the terms, reasonable fees, and
conditions upon which licenses in the City may be granted, suspended, or
revoked. In no event shall an exclusive license be granted or shall the term of
a license exceed one (1) year.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 10. USE OF STREETS, ETC., COMPENSATION.
   No franchise, license, lease, or right to use the streets, public places, or
property of the City shall be granted by the City without receiving fair
compensation. No compensation by any grantee shall ever be in lieu of any
lawful taxation upon its property.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE XII
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Sec. 1. MUNICIPAL UTILITIES; RIGHT TO ACQUIRE; OPERATE.
   The City shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by the Constitution and general laws of the State to acquire,
construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend, repair and maintain either
within or without its corporate limits, public utilities, including but not by
way of limitation, public utilities for supply water, light, heat, power, gas,
sewage treatment, and garbage disposal facilities for City residents and also
to sell and deliver such services outside its corporate limits in any amount
not to exceed the limitations set by the Constitution and laws of the State and
this Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. UTILITY DISPOSAL; VOTE REQUIRED.
   Unless approved by an affirmative vote of three-fifths (3/5ths) of the
electors voting thereon at a regular or special City election, the City shall
not sell, exchange, lease, or in any way dispose of property, easement,
equipment, privilege, or asset needed to continue the operation of any
municipal public utility. All contracts, grants, leases, or other forms of
transfer in violation of this section shall be void and of no effect as against
the City. Restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange
of articles of machinery or equipment which are no longer useful or which are
replaced by new machinery or equipment, or to the leasing of property not
necessary for the operation of a utility, or to the exchange of property or
easements for other needed property or easements.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. RATES AND CHARGES; COMMISSION TO FIX.
   The Commission shall fix just and reasonable rates and such other charges as
may be deemed advisable for supplying municipal utility services to inhabitants
of the City and others.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. ORDINANCE REQUIRED; COLLECTION OF RATES AND CHARGES; LIEN ON PROPERTY;
COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Commission shall provide by ordinance for the collection of rates
and charges for public utility services furnished by the City. Except as
provided by law, when any person fails or refuses to pay the City any sums due
on utility bills, the service for which the delinquency exists may be
discontinued and a suit may be brought for the collection of the sums due.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the City shall have a lien upon
the property to which utility services were supplied as a security for the
collection of all charges for utility services furnished by the City. The lien
shall become effective immediately on the distribution or supplying of
utilities to such property.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law, all unpaid charges for utility
services to any such property, which on March 1st of each year have been unpaid
for a period of three (3) months or more, shall be reported to the Commission
by the City Manager at the first meeting in March. The Commission thereupon
shall order the publication in a local newspaper of general circulation in the
City of a notice that all unpaid utility charges not paid by April 15th will be
assessed upon the City tax roll against the property to which the utility
services were supplied or furnished. Thereafter, if these charges remain unpaid
by April 15th, they shall be spread upon the City tax roll and shall be
collected in the same manner as the summer taxes. In other words, unpaid
charges for utility services provided by the City, if they remain unpaid, will
become a lien on the property until paid, even if title to the property is
transferred.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-5-02)
Sec. 5. CITY MANAGER; POWER TO APPOINT EMPLOYEES.
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of each City
owned and operated utility or utility department and shall have the power to
appoint and remove any superintendent, official or employee.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING; PUBLISH REPORT.
   Accounts for each public utility owned or operated by the City, shall be
kept in a manner which shows the true and complete financial result of City
ownership or operation. The City Manager shall annually cause to be made and
published for public distribution a report showing the financial results of
City ownership or operation.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. MUNICIPAL UTILITY SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY.
   The Commission may, by ordinance, provide for furnishing municipal utility
services outside of the City. The Commission may charge higher rates for
services provided outside the City limits.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 8-5-86)
ARTICLE XIII
PLANNING
Sec. 1. CREATION.
   A City Planning Commission is hereby created.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. PLANNING COMMISSION; COMPOSITION; MEMBERS; TERMS.
   The Planning Commission shall be composed of nine (9) members appointed by
the City Commission. The members of the Planning Commission shall be qualified
electors of the City and shall, insofar as is possible, be representative of
the entire City. The terms of each member shall be for three (3) years, or
until a successor takes office, except that the terms of three (3) of the
members first appointed shall be for one (1) year and the terms of three (3) of
the members first appointed shall be for two (2) years. All members of the
Planning Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. POWERS; PROVIDED BY ACT 285 PUBLIC ACTS 1931.
   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and authority provided by Act
285 of the Public Acts of 1931, as amended, and such other powers granted it by
law, this Charter, or ordinance.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Editor's note:
   The provisions of Public Act 285 of 1931, as amended, can be located at
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.
Sec. 4. ORDINANCE; AUTHORIZING GRANTING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Except as otherwise prohibited by law, the City Commission may provide by
ordinance that the Planning Commission, or some other body, may grant building
permits or temporary occupancy permits conditioned upon the performance of
specific acts or upon the payment of a cash or performance bond to insure
compliance.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. ZONING ORDINANCE; CITY COMMISSION PRESCRIBES.
   The City Commission shall prescribe by ordinance zoning laws for the City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. HAZARDOUS PROPERTY; WEED CONTROL; PROCEDURES; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   When any lot, building, or structure within the City because of the
accumulation of refuse or debris, uncontrolled growing of weeds, dilapidation,
or because of any other condition or happening, becomes, in the opinion of the
Commission, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to the health or
safety of the inhabitants of the City, the Commission shall give notice to the
owner of the land, building, or structure, specifying the nature of the hazard
or nuisance, and requiring such owner to alter, repair, tear down, or remove
the same promptly and within a time to be specified by the Commission, which
shall be commensurate with the nature of the hazard or nuisance. If, at the
expiration of the time limit in this notice, the owner has not complied with
its requirements or in any case where the owner of the land, building, or
structure is not known, the Commission may direct the City Attorney to seek an
order from a Court of competent jurisdiction abating said hazard or nuisance or
permitting the City to abate said hazard or nuisance. The City may assess the
costs of such abatement against said lot or property upon which said hazard or
nuisance was located.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
ARTICLE XIV
MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 1. ACQUIRING PROPERTY FOR PUBLIC USE; CITY AUTHORITY.
   The City shall have the power to take private property for any public use or
public purpose only as authorized by the laws of the State. All proceedings for
the taking of private property by the City shall be governed by the laws of the
State.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. CONDEMNATION PROCEDURE.
   When the Commission shall deem it advisable to vacate, discontinue, or
abolish any street, alley, or public ground, or any part thereof, it shall so
declare by resolution and in the same resolution appoint a time not sooner than
four (4) weeks thereafter when it shall meet to hear objections. Notice of this
meeting, with a copy of the resolution, shall be published at least once each
week for four (4) weeks prior to the time appointed for this meeting in a local
newspaper of general circulation in the City. In addition, the City Clerk shall
mail a notice of the meeting, including a copy of the resolution, to the
respective owners of all property abutting upon any land directly affected by
this proposed action. This notice shall be sent by first class mail to the
addresses of the owners as shown on the last assessment roll, at least fourteen
(14) days in advance of the date set for the hearing. Objections to the
proposed action of the Commission may be filed by a resident or real property
owner of the City in writing with the City Clerk. If any objections are filed,
the street, alley, or public ground, or any part thereof, shall not be vacated
or discontinued except by an affirmative vote of no fewer than five (5)
Commissioners.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. RECORDS; AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC.
   All records of the City shall be public, shall be available for inspection
by the public at all reasonable times, and shall be kept in City offices,
except when required to be elsewhere for official reasons or for safekeeping.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. OFFICIAL REPRESENTATIONS OR RECITALS IN CITY AGREEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No official of the City shall have the power to make representations or
recitals of fact in any contract, franchise, document, or agreement contrary to
the public record of the City. Any such representation or recital shall be void
and of no affect against the City.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. MEMBERS OF VARIOUS BOARDS; QUALIFICATIONS; NOTICES.
   The appointed members of any City agency, board, or committee, other than
the Principal Shopping District Board (also known as the "Downtown Development
Board"), shall be qualified electors of the City and shall, insofar as is
possible, be representative of the entire City. The appointed members of the
Principal Shopping District Board (also known as the "Downtown Development
Board") shall meet the requirements of the applicable state law including that
one member of the board shall be from the adjacent residential area, one member
shall be a representative of the local governmental unit, and a majority of the
members shall be nominees of individual businesses located within the principal
shopping district. Before an appointed position is filled, notice of the
vacancy shall be published at least two (2) times in a local newspaper of
general circulation in the City. This notice shall state the nature of the
vacancy, the term of office, the function of the agency, board, or committee
for which the vacancy exists, and that any qualified elector of the City may
submit names, including his or her own name, for consideration in the filling
of the vacancy. No appointed member of any City agency, board or committee
shall serve on the same body for more than four (4) consecutive terms.
(Charter effective 1-1-77; Amendment effective 11-2-10; Amendment effective 11-
3-15)
Sec. 6. CAMPAIGN FINANCING; RESTRICTIONS, ADOPT ORDINANCE.
   Within six (6) months after the effective date of this Charter, the
Commission shall provide by ordinance for restrictions and practices concerning
campaign financing, which shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
establishment of spending and contribution limits.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. MARIHUANA.
   Nothing in the Code of Ordinances shall apply to the use, possession or
transfer of less than 1 ounce of marihuana, on private property, or
transportation of less than 1 ounce of marihuana, by a person who has attained
the age of 21 years.
(Amendment effective 11-10-14)
ARTICLE XV
TRANSITION
Sec. 1. PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Article is to assist the transition from the existing
Charter to this Charter and it shall constitute a part of this Charter only to
the extent and for the time required to accomplish this end.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 2. PROPOSED CHARTER; SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   This Charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
City of Mount Pleasant at a regular municipal election to be held on November
4, 1975. This election shall be conducted by the officers charged with the
conduct and supervision of elections under the existing Charter, and shall
follow the election procedure established by law.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 3. BALLOTS; FORM; CONTENT.
   The form of the ballot for the submission of this Charter shall be as
follows:
   Shall the proposed Charter drafted by the Charter commission elected on
November 6, 1973, be adopted:
   Yes           
   No           
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, this Charter shall take effect and
become law on January 1, 1977, at 12:01 a.m.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 5. FIRST COMMISSION; ELECTION; TERM.
   (A)   The first election of Commissioners under this Charter shall take
place on November 2, 1976. Four (4) Commissioners shall be elected at this
election. They shall take office on January 1, 1977. The nomination and
election of these commissioners shall be in accordance with the provisions of
this Charter.
      (1)   The three (3) Commissioners receiving the highest vote total shall
hold office for three (3) years until December 31, 1979.
      (2)   The Commissioner receiving the fourth highest vote total shall hold
office for two (2) years until December 31, 1978.
   (B)   The two (2) Commissioners whose terms under the existing Charter end
on December 31, 1977, shall continue in office as commissioners under this
Charter, and their terms shall end on that date. The first election for these
two (2) Commission seats under this Charter shall take place on November 8,
1977.
   (C)   The Commissioner whose term under the existing Charter ends on
December 31, 1978, shall continue in office as a Commissioner under this
Charter and this term shall end on that date. The first election for this
Commission seat under this Charter shall take place on November 7, 1978.
   (D)   After the initial terms of office provided for in this Section have
expired, the terms of the Commissioners shall be as provided in Article II,
Section 4.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 6. VACANCY.
   Should a vacancy occur in any office of the City after the adoption of this
Charter and prior to January 1, 1977, such vacancy shall be filled in the
manner provided in the existing Charter of the City and the person so appointed
or elected shall serve until the time that the term of office to which he-she
was appointed or elected expires under the provisions of the existing Charter,
except as modified by this Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 7. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES CONTINUED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, all appointed officials and
employees of the City shall continue in their respective City offices and
employments which they held prior to the effective date of this Charter, as
though they had been appointed or employed int he manner herein provided. They
shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of this Charter, except that
any officials or employees who hold an office or employment which is provided
for in this Charter shall continue in their office or employment at the
pleasure of the appointing official or body, regardless of the term for which
originally appointed.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 8. CLAIMS; ORDERS; CONTENTS, ETC.; CONTINUED.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or administrative
proceedings of the City shall continue except as modified pursuant to the
provisions of this Charter, and in each case shall be maintained, carried on,
or dealt with by the City department, office, or agency appropriate under this
Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 9. ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS, ETC., CONTINUED; EXCEPTION.
   All laws, ordinances, resolutions, orders, rules, or regulations in force in
the City at the time this Charter takes effect, to the extent they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter, shall continue in full force
until repealed or amended.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 10. BOARDS; COMMITTEES; ETC., CONTINUED.
   All boards, committees, agencies, or commissions of the City in existence at
the time this Charter takes effect, to the extent they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Charter, shall continue to function until abolished
or modified by the Commission in accordance with the provisions of this
Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 11. TAXES; ASSESSMENTS; NO CHANGE; EXCEPTION.
   All taxes and assessments levied or assessed and all charges thereon and all
fines and penalties imposed, which are uncollected at the time this Charter
becomes effective, shall be collected as if such change had not been made. If a
different remedy is provided by this Charter, or by any ordinance or
resolution, the remedy shall be deemed cumulative to the remedies under the
existing Charter.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 12. CITY COMMISSION TO ADOPT PROCEDURES FOR TRANSITION.
   In all cases not covered by this Charter, the Commission shall supply
necessary details and procedures for the transition from the government of the
City under the existing Charter to that under this Charter, and may adopt such
rules, resolutions, and ordinances as may be required therefor.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 13. CHARTER AMENDMENT; NUMBER VOTES REQUIRED FOR CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   This Charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by law.
Should two (2) or more amendments adopted at the same election have conflicting
provisions, the amendment receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail
as to those provisions.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
Sec. 14. SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision, section, or clause of this Charter be declared void,
illegal, or unconstitutional, this invalidity shall not affect the remainder of
this Charter, and to this end, this Charter is declared to be severable.
(Charter effective 1-1-77)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances, see
Charter Art. V
   Initiative and referendum, see
Charter Art. VI
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Mount Pleasant shall
be designated as the Mount Pleasant City Code and may be so cited.
Cross-reference:
   Codification of ordinances, time required, copies required, see Charter
Art. V, § 8
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mount Pleasant,
Michigan.
   CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY CODE, or MT. PLEASANT CITY
CODE. This municipal code as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of
new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Isabella County, Michigan.
   COURT or COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION. Generally, the trial and appellate
courts of the State of Michigan, except when otherwise required by the Zoning
and Land Use Agreement, the Law Enforcement Agreement, or the Local Regulation
Agreement between the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan and the city,
entered by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan, Northern Division, Case No. 05-10296-BC, on December 17, 2010, in
which case COURT or COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION shall mean the appropriate
tribal court of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan.
   HARBOR. The act of owning, maintaining, or keeping an animal on a person’s
premises while providing food and shelter to that animal.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise, including in appropriate circumstances a law
enforcement, code enforcement or ordinance enforcement officer of the Saginaw
Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan upon whom the City Manager has conferred
authority.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members of the entity, and
as applied to corporations, the officers or agents of the corporation.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or
modifying it takes effect.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance, form, publication of summary, public hearing, publication,
effective date, see Charter
Art. V, § 4
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 15.231) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of
       public records, see Public Act 442 of 1976,
       being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or any ordinance of the city any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in
this code or such ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation of any such provision by
any person shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both, except whenever a
specific penalty is otherwise provided.
   (B)   Any minor who violates any provision of this code or any ordinance of
the city shall be dealt with by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Unless a violation of this code or any ordinance of the city is
specifically designated in the code or ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction, the violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code
or any ordinance shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day that
such condition continues to exist.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11)
Cross-reference:
   Penalties authorized, see Charter
Art. V, § 6
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty established, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4i(k)
   Jurisdiction of probate court, see M.C.L.A. §§ 712A.1 et seq.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   COMMISSION
   
31.   ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS AND CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
   
33.   TAXATION
   
34.   RECOVERED STOLEN PROPERTY
   
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
36.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
   
37.   RETIRED PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEES HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
   
38.   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR CONDITIONS
   
39.   HUMAN RIGHTS
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION
Section
Commission Meetings
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Sergeant-at-arms
   
30.04   Agenda
   
30.05   Call to order
   
30.06   Roll call
   
30.07   Rules of debate
   
30.08   Addressing the Commission
   
30.09   Voting upon questions
   
30.10   Decorum
   
30.11   Special and standing committees
   
30.12   Protests filed on Commission actions
   
30.13   Ordinances, resolutions and contracts
   
30.14   Motion to adjourn
   
30.15   Other rules to govern
   
30.16   Ethics policy
Cross-reference:
   For further provisions concerning the City Commission, see Charter
Art. II
COMMISSION MEETINGS
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall establish by resolution the day and time of its regular
meetings to be held in the Commission Chambers at the City Hall; provided,
however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting falls upon a day
designated by law as a legal or national holiday, such meeting shall be held at
the same hour on a mutually agreeable day.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Commission. He/she shall
preserve strict order and decorum at all regular and special meetings of the
Commission. He/she shall state every question coming before the Commission,
announce the decision of the Commission on all matters, and decide all
questions of order; provided, however, that upon an appeal to the Commission, a
majority vote of the Commission shall conclusively determine such question of
order. He/she shall vote on all questions, his/her name being called last.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76)
§ 30.03 SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   The Director of Public Safety or his/her representative shall execute the
commands of the Commission from time to time, and shall, under the order of the
chair, keep order in the Commission Chambers.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76)
§ 30.04 AGENDA.
   (A)   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract
documents or other matters to be submitted to the Commission as part of the
agenda shall be delivered to the City Manager five working days preceding the
Commission meeting. The City Manager, after consultation with the Mayor and/or
Vice Mayor, shall prepare the agenda. The City Manager shall furnish
Commissioner, the Mayor, the City Clerk and the City Attorney with a copy of
the agenda prior to the Commission meeting and as far in advance of the
Commission meeting as time for preparation will permit. None of the foregoing
matters shall be presented to the Commission by administrative officials except
those of an urgent nature, and the same, when so presented, shall have the
written approval of the City Manager before presentation. During the Commission
meeting:
      (1)   Items other than work sessions and closed sessions may be added to
the agenda or removed from the agenda with a two-thirds vote of the entire
Commission then serving.
      (2)   Work sessions and recommendations for closed sessions may be added
to the agenda or removed from the agenda with a majority vote of the Commission
in attendance.
   (B)   On a periodic basis, the Commission shall, by resolution, approve the
form of the agenda for Commission meetings.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 890, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 941, passed
2-25-08; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18; Am. Ord. 1045, passed 8-26-19)
§ 30.05 CALL TO ORDER.
   The presiding officer shall take the chair precisely at the hour appointed
for the meeting, and shall immediately call the Commission to order. In the
absence of the Mayor and the Vice Mayor, the City Clerk shall call the
Commission to order, whereupon a temporary chairperson shall be elected by the
Commissioners present. Upon the arrival of the Mayor or Vice Mayor, the
temporary chairperson shall immediately relinquish the chair upon the
conclusion of the business immediately before the Commission.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
§ 30.06 ROLL CALL.
   Before proceeding with the business of the Commission, the City Clerk shall
call the roll of the Commissioners, and the names of those present shall be
entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
§ 30.07 RULES OF DEBATE.
   (A)   The presiding officer may move, second and debate from the chair,
subject only to such limitations of debate as are herein imposed on all
Commissioners, and shall not be deprived of any of the rights and privileges of
a Commissioner by reason of his/her acting as the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every Commissioner desiring to speak shall address the chair and, upon
recognition of the presiding officer, shall confine himself/herself to the
question under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
   (C)   A Commissioner, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when
speaking unless it be to call him/her to order, or as herein otherwise
provided. If a Commissioner, while speaking, be called to order, he/she shall
cease speaking until the question of order be determined, and, if in order, he/
she shall be permitted to proceed.
   (D)   The Commissioner moving the adoption of an ordinance or resolution
shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
   (E)   A motion to reconsider any action taken by the Commission may be made
only on the day such action was taken. It may be made either immediately during
the same session or at a recessed or adjourned session thereof. Such motion
shall be made by one of the prevailing side, but may be seconded by any
Commissioner, and may be made at any time and have precedence over all other
motions or while a Commissioner has the floor. The question may then be
debated, if applicable.
   (F)   A motion to rescind any action taken by the Commission may be made by
any Commissioner if the original motion has not been acted up on or the action
or parts of the action can be undone. If the motion to rescind is added to the
agenda during the Commission meeting (no prior notice given), such motion shall
require a 2/3 vote of the entire Commission to pass.
   (G)   A Commissioner may request, through the presiding officer, the
privilege of having an abstract of his/her statement on any subject under
consideration by the Commission entered in the minutes. If the Commission
consents thereto, such statement shall be entered in the minutes.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
§ 30.08 ADDRESSING THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Prior permission not required. Any person may address the Commission
during a Commission meeting without securing the prior permission of the
Commission or the presiding officer, subject to the following:
      (1)   Interested parties or their authorized representatives may address
the Commission by written communication with respect to any matter by
delivering the City Manager a copy of the written communication before the end
of the regular business day on the day of the Commission meeting.
      (2)   Interested persons or their authorized representatives may address
the Commission during a Commission meeting by oral communications. The
Commission, by resolution, shall designate the time during each meeting when
the public shall have an opportunity to speak.
   (B)   Addressing the Commission after motion made. After a motion is made by
the Commission, no person shall address the Commission without first securing
the permission of the Commission to do so.
   (C)   Manner of addressing the Commission; time limit. Each person
addressing the Commission shall stand, give his/her name and address in an
audible tone of voice for the record, and unless further time is granted by the
Commission, shall limit his/her address to five minutes during each public
opportunity to speak, with the exception that such individual may also address
the Commission a second time for an additional three minutes during each public
opportunity to speak. In addition, the Commission may, by motion, grant an
individual the right to address the Commission for a longer period of time. All
remarks shall be addressed to the Commission as a body and not to any
individual Commissioner thereof. No person, other than the Commission and the
person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any discussion,
either directly or through a Commissioner, without the permission of the
presiding officer. No questions shall be asked a Commissioner except through
the presiding officer.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 890, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 1041, passed
10-8-18)
§ 30.09 VOTING UPON QUESTIONS.
   All votes shall be taken by “yeas” and “nays” except for nominations to fill
the Mayor and the Vice Mayor positions. The vote shall be so entered upon the
journal as to show the names of those voting in the affirmative and in the
negative. If the vote is unanimous, the record need merely so state. The
failure or refusal of any Commissioner to vote shall be considered an
affirmative vote. When voting on nominations to fill the Mayor and Vice Mayor
positions, the vote shall be cast by naming one of the persons nominated for
the position. The position shall be filled by the nominee who receives at least
a majority of the votes of the full Commission.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
§ 30.10 DECORUM.
   (A)   While the Commission is in session the Commissioners shall preserve
order and decorum, and a Commissioner shall neither by conversation or
otherwise delay or interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the Commission nor
disturb any Commissioner while speaking or refuse to obey the orders of the
Commission or its presiding officer, except as otherwise herein provided.
   (B)   Any person making personal, impertinent or slanderous remarks, or who
shall become boisterous while addressing the Commission, shall be forthwith, by
the presiding officer, barred from further audience before the Commission,
unless permission to continue be granted by a majority vote of the Commission.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
§ 30.11 SPECIAL AND STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees. The Commission may create one or more standing
committees of its members. Each standing committee shall perform such duties,
investigate, have charge of and report upon such matters as may be properly
referred to the standing committee.
   (B)   Special committees. The Commission may create such special committees
as the Commission may determine from time to time. Each special committee shall
perform such duties, investigate, have charge of and report upon such matters
as may be properly referred to it.
   (C)   Appointments. The Mayor shall appoint the members of each standing
committee and/or special committee.
   (D)   Any reports of standing or special committees must be supported by a
majority of the committee.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 890, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 1041, passed
10-8-18)
§ 30.12 PROTESTS FILED ON COMMISSION ACTIONS.
   Any Commissioner shall have the right to have the reasons for his/her
dissent from, or protest against, any action of the Commission entered on the
minutes.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
§ 30.13 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No ordinance shall be prepared for presentation to the Commission
unless ordered by a majority vote of the Commission or prepared on request of
the City Manager.
   (B)   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the Commission, have been approved as to form and legality by
the City Attorney and shall have been examined and approved for administration
by the City Manager where there are substantive matters of administration
involved.
   (C)   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action
by the Commission shall be introduced and sponsored by a Commissioner;
otherwise, they shall not be considered.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to alter the procedures
established for initiative and referendum as set forth in the City Charter,
Article VI.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances, see
Charter Art. V
   Initiative and referendum, see
Charter Art. VI
§ 30.14 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76)
§ 30.15 OTHER RULES TO GOVERN.
   The rules of parliamentary practice, comprised in Robert's Rules of Order
(latest edition), shall govern the meetings of the Commission in all cases to
which they are applicable, provided they are not in conflict with the Charter,
this chapter or resolutions adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 890, passed 6-9-03; Am. Ord. 1041, passed
10-8-18)
§ 30.16 ETHICS POLICY.
   (A)   The city's leaders are to advance common interests rather than their
own interests and are to be wholly accountable to the people. This section does
not comprehensively define ethical behavior but instead defines minimal,
enforceable ethical standards for city leaders.
   (B)   This section applies to Commissioners and to members of boards,
commissions, and other bodies appointed by the Mayor or the Commission and the
Housing Commission.
   (C)   The following definitions shall apply to terms used in this section.
      (1)   Anyone means any person or entity.
      (2)   Confidential information means information in whatever form
obtained by an official during the course of his or her service to the city
that is not available to or may be exempted from disclosure to members of the
general public under the FOIA or another applicable law, rule, regulation, or
court order. (An official may disclose to anyone how to make a FOIA request or
how to challenge a denial of a FOIA request.)
      (3)   Conflict of interest means one or more of the following situations:
         (a)   A decision to be made by the city body on which the official
serves or, in the case of a Commissioner, a decision to be made by any city
body, could result in private gain for the official, a member of the official's
household, or a member of the official's immediate family residing outside the
official's household.
         (b)   A decision to be made by the city body on which the official
serves could result in private gain for;
            1.   Anyone the official represents as an attorney, accountant, or
other professional;
            2.   An entity for which the official serves as an officer,
director or, for a limited liability company or partnership, as a member; or
            3.   Unless the interest is held in a manner so that the official
does not directly control the number of shares, portion of the ownership
interest, or its value, an entity in which the official either owns more than
10% of the total stock or other ownership interest in the entity, or has an
interest totaling $50,000 or more in value. Division 1. does not apply to an
attorney, accountant, or other professional whose client is only a lender on a
project.
      (4)   Entity means an association, business corporation, general
partnership, governmental agency or unit, limited liability company, limited
partnership, non-profit corporation, individual's assumed name, or any other
legal person or identity other than an individual.
      (5)   FOIA means Michigan's Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, as
amended, MCL 15.231 et seq.
      (6)   Official means a person to whom this section applies as stated in
division (B).
      (7)   Official's household means those persons residing in the same
dwelling unit as the official.
      (8)   Official's immediate family means the spouse, children, siblings or
parents of the official.
      (9)   Private gain means any direct financial benefit that is different
than any financial benefit members of the general public or a significant group
of the general public would gain in similar circumstances.
      (10)   Sole proprietor means:
         (a)   The sole owner of a business that is not formed as an entity; or
         (b)   The sole holder of any equity or ownership interest in a
business entity.
   (D)   The following standards shall apply to all officials in their service
to the city.
      (1)   An official shall comply with all charter provisions, this Code,
laws, rules, regulations, articles of incorporation, bylaws, procedures and
policies applicable to:
         (a)   The official's office;
         (b)   The body on which the official serves; or
         (c)   The meetings the official attends.
      (2)   An official shall not:
         (a)   Disclose to anyone any confidential information before it is
authorized for release to the general public; or
         (b)   Use confidential information for private gain.
      (3)   Representation.
         (a)   An official shall not represent his or her personal views as
those of the city or the body on which the official serves.
         (b)   An official shall not make any statements or answer any
questions on behalf of the city or the body on which the official serves unless
expressly authorized by the body on which the official serves, the Commission,
or, for officials other than a Commissioner, the City Manager.
         (c)   An official shall not represent that he or she has any authority
separate from that of the body on which he or she serves.
         (d)   An official shall act within the authority granted to the body
on which he or she serves and shall respect the roles of other officials and
bodies.
         (e)   An official shall not interfere with the city's administrative
functions or the duties of city staff and shall not impair the city staff's
ability to implement policy decisions made by any official body.
      (4)   Except to the extent they would be available to others in similar
circumstances, an official shall not use or attempt to use city personnel
resources, property, funds, or information for private gain.
      (5)   An official shall not solicit or accept a gift or a loan of money,
goods, services, or other things of value which may tend or may reasonably
appear to be intended to influence the manner in which the official performs
his or her duties.
      (6)   Private Gain.
         (a)   An official shall not vote, act upon, participate in any
discussion or, except as provided below, engage in any communications regarding
any matter from which he or she knowingly may realize any private gain or
regarding which he or she has a conflict of interest.
         (b)   An official shall not represent any individual or entity before
a body on which he or she serves. A Commissioner shall not represent any
individual or entity before anybody subject to this section. However this does
not limit any official's ability to appeal his or her residential (or, if the
official is the sole proprietor of a business, that business') property tax
valuation or to address zoning or construction matters involving his or her
residence (or, if the official is the sole proprietor of a business, such
matters involving that business).
      (7)   An official shall not display any favor for or disfavor of anyone
in the discharge of the official's duties. City actions and decisions shall be
made fairly and impartially. An official shall treat persons appearing before a
body with courtesy and respect. However, this does not prevent an official from
stating his or her views or advocating regarding matters under consideration or
communications to that public body.
   (E)   It is the intent of these provisions to encourage officials to
disclose potential concerns and seek advice as needed or desired to ensure
compliance. Accordingly, this section shall be administered and enforced as
follows:
      (1)   Any official, other than a Commissioner, in an effort to comply
with this section, may seek the advice of the City Manager and, with the City
Manager's consent, the city attorney, regarding any upcoming proceeding, action
or decision, or regarding any potential situation addressed by this section. A
Commissioner, in an effort to comply with this section, may directly seek the
advice of the City Attorney. If an official:
         (a)   Does so prior to any violation of this section;
         (b)   Truthfully and fully discloses all information requested by the
City Manager or City Attorney; and
         (c)   Complies with the City Manager's or City Attorney's advice and
direction, he or she shall not be subject to sanctions as detailed in division
(5).
      (2)   Disclosure.
         (a)   Before any discussion on the matter by the body on which he or
she serves, an official shall disclose to that body any situation that could
appear to some to violate this section and disclose any guidance the official
received as provided by division (1). The official shall or shall not
participate in the consideration of the matter as provided in the City
Manager's or City Attorney's opinion. If the official is not to participate, he
or she shall leave the dais or other place where members of the body sit during
its meetings to return after the body completes its consideration of that
matter.
         (b)   If, regardless of compliance with this section, an official
strongly believes that, due to a close family or friendship relationship, he or
she would find it very difficult to objectively participate in a matter before
the body on which the official serves, the official may ask remaining members
of the body on which the official serves to excuse the official from his or her
duty to otherwise participate in the discussion and action on that matter. The
remainder of the body, by a majority vote, may excuse the official's
participation. An official shall have no duty to request the body to excuse the
official's participation, the body shall have no duty to grant such a request,
and no other persons shall have any right under this division (b).
      (3)   If questions are first raised at a meeting about the applicability
of this provision to an official and a matter pending at that meeting, the
highest ranking city staff member at the meeting shall address the issue. The
meeting may be recessed to seek advice from the City Manager or City Attorney
or consideration of the matter may be postponed to a later meeting.
      (4)   Procedure.
         (a)   Anyone may contact the chair of the body on which an official
serves or the City Manager with any allegations or concerns that an official
has violated this section. If the chair of a body is contacted, the chair shall
contact the City Manager. For an issue regarding a Commissioner, the Mayor or
any Commissioner may contact the City Attorney without first contacting the
City Manager.
         (b)   The City Manager or, with the City Manager's consent, the chair
of the affected body, may contact the City Attorney for an opinion regarding
the allegations or concerns. For an issue regarding a Commissioner, the City
Attorney shall be contacted.
         (c)   The City Manager or the City Attorney may ask the affected
official and others for information the City Manager or the City Attorney think
is relevant. All officials shall promptly and fully comply with such requests.
For an issue regarding a Commissioner, the City Attorney shall conduct the
inquiry.
         (d)   After obtaining the information, the City Manager or City
Attorney shall opine as to whether or not a violation of this section occurred.
(For an issue regarding a Commissioner, the City Attorney shall render the
opinion.) If she or he concludes a violation occurred, she or he shall explain
any needed and optional actions to be taken and include any information and
considerations that may be helpful in addressing the situation. The affected
body, the Commission, and city staff and officers shall act upon that opinion
as they deem appropriate.
         (e)   If the City Manager or City Attorney concludes no violation of
this section occurred, she or he shall notify the complaining party and such
city staff and officers as she or he deem appropriate.
         (f)   If anyone, including the complainant, another official, city
staff, or anyone else actually affected by the situation, believes the City
Manager's or City Attorney's opinion is incorrect or the accompanying
information is incorrect, that person may address the Commission regarding the
issue. Any action by the Commission is final.
         (g)   If an official violated this section and that violation may have
affected the outcome of any action, the affected body shall reconsider the
decision or action as directed by the City Manager or City Attorney.
      (5)   In addition to any other results, the Commission may impose one or
more of the following sanctions for a violation of this section. In deciding
which, if any, of these sanctions to impose, the Commission may consider such
factors as:
         (a)   The severity of the violation;
         (b)   Its intentionality;
         (c)   Its effects;
         (d)   Whether it was the violating official's first or a repeated
violation of this section;
         (e)   Whether the violating official acknowledged the violation and
intends future compliance with this section; and
         (d)   Other factors the Commission may deem pertinent under the
circumstances.
            1.   A violation of this section constitutes misconduct,
misfeasance and malfeasance in office. For all appointed officials it therefore
can be grounds for removal from office.
            2.   Upon the affirmative vote of either a majority of its members
either the Commission may publicly censure an official for a violation of this
section. The official who is the subject of the body's action shall not
participate in the consideration or decision on the censure.
            3.   If the violation of this section included the disclosure of
confidential information, the Commission may decide to withhold confidential
information from the violating official. If the confidential information was
information presented during a closed session, the Commission may bar the
violating official from participating in one or more future closed sessions. A
Commissioner who is the subject of the action shall not participate in its
consideration or vote on it.
         (d)   If the violation of this section was willful or knowing and the
City is sued, fined, or suffers another loss as a result, the Commission may
seek indemnification or contribution from the violating official that could
include amounts paid in any settlement, judgment, fine or other penalty, plus
the costs (e.g., attorneys' fees, expert costs, discovery costs, etc.) to
defend any such action. A Commissioner who is the subject of the action shall
not participate in its consideration or vote on it.
(Ord. 1041, passed 10-8-18)
CHAPTER 31: ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS AND CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Elections
   
31.01   Nominating petitions
   
31.02   Campaign financing
Administrative Organization
   
31.15   Establishment of four divisions
   
31.16   Option of City Manager to retain duties of Director
   
31.17   Division of Community Services
   
31.18   Division of Finance and Records
   
31.19   Division of Public Works
   
31.20   Division of Public Safety
Cross-reference:
   Administrative officials, see Charter
Art. III
ELECTIONS
§ 31.01 NOMINATING PETITIONS.
   All nominating petitions to fill the elective offices provided under
Article IV of the Charter of the City of Mount Pleasant shall be filed with the
City Clerk within the time limitation set for filing petitions as provided by
the laws of the State.
(Ord. 513, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 546, passed 5-15-78; Am. Ord. 1041, passed
10-8-18)
§ 31.02 CAMPAIGN FINANCING.
   All elections held within the city shall be subject to the Michigan Campaign
Finance Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 169.201 et seq. as enforced by the Isabella County
Clerk.
Cross-reference:
   Campaign financing; restrictions, adopt ordinance, see Charter
Art. XIV, § 6
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF FOUR DIVISIONS.
   The administrative organization of the city shall be established in four
divisions: Community Services, Finance and Records, Public Works and Public
Safety. The Director of each Division shall be appointed by the City Manager
subject to approval of the Commission, and shall exercise such powers and
duties as may be assigned to him/her by state law, the City Charter and local
ordinances or delegated by the City Manager.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-2-73)
§ 31.16 OPTION OF CITY MANAGER TO RETAIN DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   Subject to approval of the Commission, the City Manager may elect to retain
the duties of the Director of one or more divisions and shall in this instance
exercise powers and duties vested in the Director. He/she may, subject to
approval of the Commission establish, transfer and re-assign functions and
activities to promote the efficient and effective performance of municipal
activities.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-2-73)
§ 31.17 DIVISION OF COMMUNITY SERVICES.
   The Division of Community Services shall be headed by the Director who shall
be responsible for municipal programs which preserve and improve the community
social, cultural and physical environment through the enrichment of leisure
time the conservation of safe, sanitary and decent housing, and the physical
and economic development of the community.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-2-73)
§ 31.18 DIVISION OF FINANCE AND RECORDS.
   The Division of Finance and Records shall be headed by the Finance Director
who shall be responsible for accounting for the receipt and expenditure of
public funds, the maintenance and preservation of public records and documents
and the assessment of taxable property. The City Clerk, Treasurer and Assessor
shall be responsible to the Director.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-2-73)
§ 31.19 DIVISION OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Division of Public Works shall be headed by the Director. He/she shall
be responsible for community health and environment through the design,
construction, maintenance and operation of the water supply system, streets and
other public property including cemeteries and airports and the disposal
systems for solid and liquid wastes.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-2-73)
§ 31.20 DIVISION OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The Division of Public Safety shall be headed by the Director. He/she shall
be responsible for maintenance of the public peace and safety through the
prevention and suppression of fires, crime prevention and the detection and
arrest persons who have violated local, state or federal laws.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-2-73)
CHAPTER 32: COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
Section
Housing Commission
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Appointment of members
Downtown Development Authority
   
32.15   Title
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Determination of necessity
   
32.18   Creation of Authority
   
32.19   Description of Downtown District
   
32.20   Board of Trustees
   
32.21   Powers of the Authority; instrumentality of city
   
32.22   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
32.23   Downtown development tax
Planning Commission
   
32.30   Powers
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation Commission, see §§
97.30 et seq.
HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   Pursuant to Public Act 18 of 1933 (Extra Session), being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.651
et seq., a commission is hereby created in and for the City of Mount Pleasant,
Michigan, to be known as the Mount Pleasant Housing Commission.
(Ord. 394, passed 5-23-66)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The City Manager is hereby directed to appoint five members of the Housing
Commission as soon as possible after this section shall take effect.
(Ord. 394, passed 5-23-66)
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.15 TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Downtown Development
Authority Ordinance.”
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 197. Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680
as now in effect or hereafter amended.
   AUTHORITY. The Mt. Pleasant Downtown Development Authority created by this
chapter.
   BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Authority, the
governing body of the authority.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The City Manager of the city.
   COMMISSION. The Commission of the city.
   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT TAX. The tax authorized by this chapter pursuant to Act
197 to be imposed by the authority in the downtown area.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The downtown district designated by this subchapter as
now existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.17 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   The Commission of the city hereby determines that it is necessary for the
best interest of the city to halt property value deterioration and increase
property tax valuation where possible in the business district of the city, to
eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth by
establishing a downtown development authority pursuant to Act 197.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.18 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created pursuant to Act 197 a downtown development authority
for the city. The authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known
and exercise its powers under the title of “Mt. Pleasant Downtown Development
Authority.” The Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of
this state and shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the
purpose of its corporation as provided by this subchapter and Act 197. The
enumeration of a power in this subchapter or in Act 197 shall not be construed
as a limitation upon the general powers of the Authority.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.19 DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   The Downtown District in which the Authority shall exercise its powers as
provided by Act 197 shall consist of the following described territory in the
city, subject to such changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to this
subchapter and Act 197:
   (A)   Mission Street city limits. The entire length of Mission Street within
the city limits, including all east and west frontage and commercial
properties, from U.S. Business Route 27 North to U.S. Business Route 27 South.
   (B)   Pickard Street and surrounding areas. Pickard Street north and south
frontage and commercial properties bounded on the east by the city limits and
west by Arnold Street. Other surrounding areas include the Fancher School site
bounded east by Mission Street, west by Kinney Street, north by High Street,
and south by Gaylord Street; the Kinney School site bounded east by Mission
Street, west by Kinney Street, north by Palmer Street, and south by Bennett
Street; and Broadway Street north and south frontage and commercial properties
bounded east by Mission Street and west by Fancher Street.
   Said property is legally described as follows: A map is available for
inspection at city hall, Community Development Office.
Beginning at the center of the intersection of South Mission Street and
Bluegrass Road thence east along the center line of Bluegrass Road to a point
301 feet east of the east right-of-way line of South Mission Street, thence
north parallel to the east right-of-way line of South Mission 832 feet, thence
east parallel to the north right-of-way line of Bluegrass Road 1020 feet,
thence north parallel to the east right-of-way line of South Mission Street
1380.35€, thence west parallel to the south right-of-way line of Broomfield
Road 281 feet +/- to a point 1270 feet east of the east right-of-way line of
South Mission Street, thence north parallel to the east right-of-way line 33
feet, thence west parallel to the south right-of-way line of Broomfield Road
973.48 feet, thence north parallel to the east right-of-way line of South
Mission 470.37 feet to the south right-of-way line of Broomfield Road, thence
northerly to the intersection of the north right-of-way line of Broomfield and
the west right-of-way line of Evans Street, thence northerly along the west
right-of-way line of Evans Street to a point 45 feet south of the north right-
of-way line of McVey Street. Thence west parallel to the north right-of-way
line of Broomfield Street 85 feet, thence north parallel to the east right-of-
way of South Mission Street 163.06 feet, thence east parallel to the north
right-of-way line of Broomfield Road 256 feet, thence north parallel to the
east right-of-way line of South Mission Street 454.95 feet, thence west
parallel to the north right-of-way of Broomfield Road 360 feet, thence north
parallel to the east right-of-way line South Mission Street 390 feet to a point
on the north right-of-way line of Appian Way, thence east along said right-of-
way to a point 300 feet east of the east right-of-way line of South Mission
Street, thence north parallel to the east right-of-way line of South Mission
Street 445 feet to the south right-of-way line of North Fairfield, thence west
along said right-of-way to a point 200 feet east of the east right-of-way line
of South Mission Street, thence north parallel to said right-of-way 280 feet,
thence east parallel to the north right-of-way line of North Fairfield 270 feet
to a point on the west lot line of Lot 13 Lynwood Subdivision, thence north
along the west lot line of Lots 13 and 12, 202.12 feet, thence west parallel to
the south right-of-way line of East Preston Road 335 feet, thence north
parallel to the east right-of-way line of South Mission Street 178 feet to the
south right-of-way of East Preston Road, thence east along said right-of-way to
a point 279 feet east of the east right-of-way of South Mission Street, thence
north to a point on the west right-of-way of Eastwood Drive 280 feet north of
the north right-of-way of East Preston Road, thence west parallel to said
right-of-way 129.14 feet, thence north parallel to the west right-of-way of
Eastwood Drive to the southwest corner of Lot 37 Eastwood Subdivision, thence
north along the west lot lines of Lots 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37
Eastwood Subdivision to the northwesterly corner of Lot 29 Eastwood
Subdivision, thence north parallel to the east right-of-way line of South
Mission Street 22 feet to a point on the south right-of-way of Bellows Street,
thence northerly to a point on the north right-of-way of Bellows 107 feet west
of the west right-of-way of Anna Street, thence north parallel to the west
right-of-way of Anna Street 101.35 feet, thence east along the south lot line
of Lot 14 South Mission Heights to the west right-of-way line of Anna Street,
thence north along said right-of-way line to the north lot line of Lot 18 South
Mission Heights, thence west along said lot line to the northwest corner of
said lot, thence north along the west lot lines of Lots 19, 20, 21 South
Mission Heights to the south right-of-way of Gaylord Street. Thence northerly
to a point on the north right-of-way line of Gaylord and the west lot line of
Lot 33 Assessor's Plat. Thence north along the west lot line of Lot 33
Assessor's Plat to the northwest corner of said lot, thence east along the
north lot line of Lot 33 to the northeast corner of said lot, thence north
along the west lot lines of Lots 38 and 39 Assessor's Plat to the south right-
of-way of High Street, thence east along said right-of-way 346 feet, thence
north 201 feet to the northwest corner Lot 2 Assessor's Plat. Thence east along
the north lot line of said lot to the northeast corner of said lot, thence
north along the east lot line of Lot 1 Assessor's Plat to the northeast corner
of said lot. Thence west along the north lot line of said lot 310 feet to the
southeast corner of Lot 1 Pleasant View I Subdivision, thence north along the
east lot lines of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Pleasant View I Subdivision to the
northeast corner of said Lot 5, thence west along the north lot line of said
lot to the southeast corner of Lot 6 Pleasant View I, thence north along the
east lot line of said lot to the southwest corner of Lot 93 Pleasant View I,
thence east along the north line of said lot to the southeast corner of Lot 95
Pleasant View I, thence north along the east line of said lot to the northwest
corner of Lot 90 Pleasant View I, thence east along the north line of said lot
to the northeast corner of said lot, thence north 66 feet along the west right-
of-way of Anna Street, thence west 132.6 feet, thence north 109.1 feet to the
southwest corner of Lot 7, Block 4, Bennett & Burrows Addition, thence east
along the south line of said lot to the west right-of-way of Anna Street.
Thence north along said right-of-way to the northeast corner of Lot 8, Block 4,
Bennett & Burrows Addition, thence west along the north line of said lot 60.3
feet. Thence north parallel to the west right-of-way of Anna Street 198 feet to
the north line of Wisconsin Street, thence west along said right-of-way to the
southeast corner Lot 4, Block 3 Bennett & Burrows Addition to the south right-
of-way of Illinois Street, thence north 66 feet to the southeast corner of Lot
4, Block 2 Bennett & Burrows Addition. Thence north along the east lines of
Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, Block 2, Bennett & Burrows Addition to the south right-of-way
of Michigan Street, thence north 66 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 8,
Block 1 Bennett & Burrows Addition. Thence north along the east lines of Lots
2, 5, 8, Block 1 Bennett & Burrows Addition to the south right-of-way of East
Broadway. Thence east along said right-of-way 99 feet, thence north 66 feet to
the southeast corner of Lot 2, Block 1 M. Brown Addition. Thence north to the
northeast corner of said lot, thence west along the north line of said lot to a
point 48 feet east of the southeast corner of Lot 19 Block 1 M. Brown Addition,
thence north parallel to the east right-of-way of South Mission Street 115.5
feet to a point on the north line of said Lot 19. Thence west along said north
line to a point 97 feet east of the east right-of-way of South Mission Street,
thence north parallel to the east right-of-way of South Mission Street to the
south right-of-way line of Chippewa Street, thence east along said right-of-way
90 feet, thence north 66 feet to the north right-of-way of Chippewa Street,
thence north parallel to the east right-of-way of South Mission Street 132 feet
to a point on the south line of Lot 14, Block 2 M. Brown Addition 187 feet east
of the east right-of-way of South Mission Street, thence east along the south
line of said lot to the southeast corner of said lot, thence north parallel to
the east right-of-way of South Mission Street 462 feet to the northeast corner
of Lot 14, Block 14, part of M. Brown Addition, thence north 66 feet to the
southeast corner Lot 1, Block 4, part of M. Brown Addition, thence west along
the south line of said lot 131.3 feet. Thence north parallel to the east right-
of-way of South Mission Street 132 feet to a point on the south line of Lot 18,
Block 4, part of M. Brown Addition. Thence east along the south line of said
lot to the southeast corner of said lot. Thence north along the east line of
said lot to the south right-of-way of Andre Street, thence north 70.5 feet to
the north right-of-way of Andre Street, thence west along said right-of-way 165
feet to the southeast corner Lot 49 Assessor's Plat 4, thence north parallel to
the east right-of-way of Mission Street 340 feet to the south right-of-way of
Bennett Street, thence east 13 feet along said right-of-way. Thence north
parallel to the east right-of-way of Mission Street 338 feet to the south
right-of-way of Palmer Street. Thence east along said right-of-way 795.6 feet,
thence north 66 feet to the north right-of-way of Palmer Street. Thence north
parallel to the west right-of-way of Brown Street 153 feet, thence east
parallel to the south right-of-way of Pickard Avenue 220 feet to the west
right-of-way of Brown Street. Thence south along said right-of-way 131 feet,
thence east 100 feet to the east right-of-way of Brown Street, thence east
parallel to the south right-of-way of East Pickard Avenue to the west line of
Lot 1 Solar Heights. Thence north to the northwest corner of said lot. Thence
east along the north line of said lot extended 475.06 feet to a point on the
east right-of-way of Russell Road 120 feet south of the South Pickard Avenue
right-of-way. Thence south along the Russell Road easterly right-of-way to the
northwest corner Lot 32, Gardenview Estates #2. Thence east along the north
line of said lot extended 406 feet. Thence north parallel to the Russell Road
right-of-way 326 feet to the south right-of-way of Pickard Avenue. Thence north
parallel to Pickard Street to the south right-of-way of Corporate Drive, thence
west along said Corporate Drive right-of-way to a point 1323.19 feet west of
the west € corner of the southwest ¼ of the southwest ¼ of Section 11, Union
Township, Isabella County. Thence north to the north right-of-way of Corporate
Drive. Thence west along said right-of-way to the west right-of-way of Mission
Street. Thence south along west right-of-way to the south right-of-way of
Corporate Drive. Thence west along said south right-of-way 128.30 feet. Thence
south parallel to the South Mission Street right-of-way 214 feet, thence west
parallel to the Corporate Drive right-of-way 63.14 feet. Thence south parallel
to the Mission Street right-of-way 115.15 feet, thence west parallel to
Corporate Drive right-of-way 235.26 feet. Thence south parallel to the Mission
Street right-of-way 584.85 feet, thence east parallel to the north right-of-way
line of Pickard 143.61 feet, thence south parallel to the Mission Street right-
of-way 250 feet to the north right-of-way line of Pickard Avenue. Thence south
to the northeast corner Lot 2, Block 1 Kinney-Richmond Addition. Thence south
along the east lines of Lots 2, 3, 6, 7, Block 1 Kinney-Richmond Addition to
the north right-of-way of Palmer Street. Thence west along said right-of-way to
the west right-of-way line of Kinney Avenue, thence south along said westerly
right-of-way to the south right-of-way of Bennett Street. Thence east along
said southerly right-of-way to the northeast corner, Lot 2, Block 5 Kinney-
Richmond Addition, thence south along the east lot lines of Lots 2, 3, 6, 7,
Block 5 and Lots 2, 3, 6, 7, Block 7, Kinney-Richmond Addition to the north
right-of-way of Crosslanes. Thence south to the northeast corner, Lot 2, Block
1, part of Kinney Addition. Thence south along the east lines of Lots 2, 3, 6,
7, Block 1; Lots 2, 3, 6, 7, Block 8; Lots 2, 3, 6, 7, Block 9, part of Kinney
Addition, to the north right-of-way of Mosher Street. Thence west along street
northerly right-of-way to the west right-of-way of Arnold Street, thence south
along said westerly right-of-way to a point 54 feet south of the northwest
corner Lot 5, Block 14, part of Kinney Addition, thence west parallel to the
Broadway Street right-of-way 59.4 feet, thence north parallel to the Arnold
Street right-of-way to the northwest corner, Lot 5, Block 14, part of Kinney
Addition. Thence west along the northerly lot line of Lot 5, Block 14, part of
Kinney Addition extended to the west right-of-way of Fancher Street. Thence
south along said westerly right-of-way to the northeast corner, Lot 7, Block
18, part of Kinney Addition. Thence east along said northerly lot line extended
to west right-of-way line of Arnold Street, south along said westerly right-of-
line to the northeast corner, Lot 1, Block 22, part of Kinney Addition. Thence
east along the south right-of-way of Michigan Street to the northeast corner,
Lot 2, Block 23, part of Kinney Addition. Thence south along the east lot lines
of Lots 2, 3, 6, 7, Block 23, Lots 2, 3, 6, 7, Block 24, and Lots 2, 3, 6, 7,
10, Block 31, part of Kinney Addition; Lots 3, 4, Block 1, Lots 5, 6, 7, 8,
Block 4, and Lots 3, 4, Block 5, Young & Vedders Addition; Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
Block 4, Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Block 1, Boulevard Park, to the north right-of-
way line of High Street, thence west along said northerly right-of-way line to
the west right-of-way of Kinney Avenue. Thence south along said westerly right-
of-way to the south right-of-way of Gaylord Street, thence east along said
southerly right-of-way line to the northeast corner, Lot 23 Yorba Linda
Subdivision, thence south along the east line of said lot and the east line of
Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, Mission Gardens. Thence south to the
south right-of-way of Bellows Street, thence east along said right-of-way to
the west right-of-way of Mission Street, thence south along said westerly
right-of-way to a point 693 feet north of the north Preston right-of-way,
thence west parallel to Preston Street 330 feet. Thence south 693 feet to the
north right-of-way line of Preston Street, thence south to the south right-of-
way of Preston Street, thence east along said southerly right-of-way 167 feet,
thence south parallel to the Mission Street right-of-way 165 feet. Thence west
parallel to the Preston Street right-of-way 150 feet. Thence south parallel to
the Mission Street right-of-way 668 feet. Thence east parallel to the Preston
Street right-of-way 313 feet to the west right-of-way line of Mission Street,
thence south along said right-of-way 218.75 feet, thence west parallel to
Preston Street right-of-way 330 feet. Thence south parallel to Mission Street
right-of-way 397 feet, thence east parallel to Preston Street right-of-way 132
feet, thence south parallel to the Mission Street right-of-way 168 feet, thence
west parallel to Preston Street right-of-way 66 feet, thence south parallel to
Mission Street right-of-way 164 feet, thence west parallel to Preston Street
right-of-way 66 feet, thence south parallel to Mission Street 247.5 feet.
Thence east parallel to Preston Street 95 feet, thence south parallel to
Mission Street 200 feet, thence east parallel to Preston Street 33 feet, thence
south parallel to Mission Street 154 feet. Thence east parallel to Preston
Street 86.4 feet, thence south parallel to Mission Street to the north right-
of-way line of Broomfield Road. Thence west along said northerly right-of-way
260 feet, thence south to the south right-of-way of Broomfield. Thence south
parallel to the right-of-way of Mission Street 419.8 feet, thence east parallel
to Broomfield Road 170 feet to a point on the west lot line of Lot 6, Burdick's
Southview, thence south along the west line of Burdick's Southview to the
southwest corner of said plat. Thence east along the south line of said plat to
the west right-of-way of Mission Street, thence south along said westerly
right-of-way to the intersection of Mission Street and the center line of
Bluegrass Road extended. Thence east to the point of beginning.
Also included are Section 11, T14NR4W, part of NW¼ of SW¼, commencing at W¼
corner, thence S 01°00 2/3 W, 1312.63 feet, thence 87°44'29" East, 197.68 feet,
thence N 26°36'32" W, 206.36 feet, thence N 13°47'38" East 12.29 feet to the
point of beginning, thence northeasterly 470.32 feet along a curve to the
right, thence S 39°17'41" E, 192.28 feet, thence S 22°47'37" E, 164.8 feet,
thence S 48°20'44" W 174.13 feet, thence S 87°44'29" E 283.42 feet to the point
of beginning. Except a parcel commencing at W¼ corner of Section 11, thence S
01°00' W 1312.63 feet along Section line, thence S 87°44'29" E 224.68 feet
along the northerly right-of-way line of Corporate drive, thence N 02°15'31" E
192.76 feet to the point of beginning, thence N 02°15'31" E 10.0 feet, thence S
87°44'29" E 169.64 feet, thence S 48°20'44" W 14.42 feet, thence N 87°44'29" W
159.26 feet to the point of beginning. (2.37 Acres M/L)
AND
Section 14, T14NR4W, part of NW¼ of SW¼, commencing at the W¼ corner, thence S
01°00' W, 1312.63 feet, thence S 87°44'29" E, 197.68 feet to the point of
beginning, thence N 26°36'32" W, 206.36 feet, thence northeasterly 12.29 feet,
thence S 87°44'29" E, 283.42 feet, thence S 48°20'44" W, 18.40 feet, thence S
02°15'31" W, 180 feet, thence N 87°44'29" W, 173 feet to the point of
beginning. Also a parcel commencing at W¼ corner of Section 11, thence S 01°00'
1312.63 feet along the Section line, thence S 87°44'29" E 224.68 feet along the
northerly right-of-way line of Corporate Drive, thence N 02°15'31" E 192.76
feet to the point of beginning, thence N02°15'31" E 10.0 feet, thence S
87°44'29" E 169.64 feet, thence S 48°20'44" W 14.42 feet, thence N 87°44'29" W
159.26 feet to the point of beginning. (1 acre M/L)
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90; Am. Ord. 742, passed 9-28-92)
§ 32.20 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Downtown Development Authority shall be under the supervision and
control of a board consisting of the City Manager of the city and ten members
appointed by the City Manager, subject to approval by the Commission. At least
five of the members shall be persons having an interest in property located in
the downtown district. At least one of the members shall be a resident of the
downtown district, if the downtown district has 100 or more persons residing
within it. Of the members first appointed, two shall be appointed for one year,
two for two years, two for three years, and two for four years. A member shall
hold office until the member's successor is appointed. Thereafter, a member
shall serve for a term of four years. The term of office for the first Board
shall begin October 22, 1990. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by
the City Manager for the unexpired term only. Members of the Board shall serve
without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary
expenses. The Chairman of the Board shall be elected by the Board.
   (B)   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking
and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules governing its procedure and the holding of
regular meetings, subject to the approval of the Commission. Special meetings
may be held when called in the manner provided in the rules of the Board and in
accordance with applicable state law. Meetings of the Board shall be open to
the public.
   (D)   Pursuant to notice and an opportunity to be heard, a member of the
Board may be removed for cause by the Commission. Removal of a member is
subject to review by the Circuit Court.
   (E)   All expense items of the authority shall be publicized monthly and the
financial records shall always be open to the public.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.21 POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY; INSTRUMENTALITY OF CITY.
   (A)   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this subchapter, the
authority shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations
imposed by law and herein.
   (B)   The Authority shall be deemed an instrumentality of the city.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.22 FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on January 1 or each year
and end on December 31 of the same year, or such other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the city.
   (B)   The Board shall annually prepare a budget and shall submit it to the
Commission on the same date that the proposed budget for the city is required
to be submitted to the Commission. The Board shall not finally adopt a budget
for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved by the Commission. The
Board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in connection with the operation
of any improvements which have been financed by revenue bonds where required to
do so by the ordinance authorizing the revenue bonds.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the Commission at the
same time and on the same basis as departments of the city are required to
submit reports. The Authority shall be audited annually by the same independent
auditors auditing the city and copies of the audit report shall be filed with
the Commission.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
§ 32.23 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT TAX.
   (A)   The Authority is hereby authorized by the city to impose an ad valorem
tax on all taxable property in the Downtown District for the purposes provided
by Act 197. The tax shall not exceed two mills on the value of taxable property
in the Downtown District as finally equalized.
   (B)   In order to impose the tax, the Board shall include in its budget each
year an estimate of the amount necessary to be raised from the Downtown
Development Tax. The amount of tax imposed shall not exceed the amount
necessary as estimated in the budget and approved by the Commission. The Board
shall certify to the proper tax assessing official of the city the amount so
determined in the same manner and at the same time as general city taxes are
certified for collection.
   (C)   The city shall collect the Downtown Development Tax at the same time
and in the same manner as other city taxes are collected. The tax shall be paid
to the treasurer of the Authority and credited to the general fund of the
Authority for the purpose provided by Act 197. The Commission may assess a
reasonable pro rata share of the funds for the cost of handling and auditing
the funds against the funds of the authority, other than those committed, which
cost shall be paid annually by the Board pursuant to an appropriate item in its
budget.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-22-90)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.30 POWERS.
   The Planning Commission established in
Article XIII of the City Charter may exercise all powers granted in the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, 2008 PA 33, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and
shall carry out all functions assigned to it by statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 1031, passed 10-23-17)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
Property Taxes
   
33.01   Tax day
   
33.02   Assessment roll
   
33.03   Board of Review meetings
Special Assessment Procedure
   
33.15   Short title
   
33.16   Definitions
   
33.17   Authority to assess
   
33.18   Resolution to initiate special assessment projects
   
33.19   Initiation by petition
   
33.20   Survey and report
   
33.21   Determination on project
   
33.22   Hearing on necessity
   
33.23   Deviation from plans and specifications
   
33.24   Limitations on preliminary expenses
   
33.25   Special assessment roll
   
33.26   Assessor to file assessment roll
   
33.27   Review of special assessment; objections
   
33.28   Payment in annual installments
   
33.29   Creation of lien
   
33.30   Additional assessments; refunds
   
33.31   Additional procedures
   
33.32   Fund for payment of bonds
   
33.33   Special assessment accounts
   
33.34   Re-assessment for benefits
   
33.35   Combination of districts
   
33.36   Assessment of single lots or parcels
   
33.37   Authorization of bonds
Taxable Personal Property
   
33.50   Duties of City Assessor
   
33.51   Neglect or refusal to file; penalties
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see Charter
Art. VIII
   Special assessments, see Charter
Art. IX
   Tax exemptions, see
T.S.O. II
PROPERTY TAXES
§ 33.01 TAX DAY.
   December 31 each year shall be the tax day in the city. The taxable status
of persons and real and personal property shall be determined as of the tax
day.
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions and additional statutory requirements, see M.C.L.A. §
211.2(2)
§ 33.02 ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The City Assessor shall on or before the first Monday in March of each year,
make and complete the assessment roll.
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions and additional statutory requirements, see M.C.L.A. §
211.24
§ 33.03 BOARD OF REVIEW MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Review shall meet for the purpose of reviewing and
correcting the assessment roll on the Tuesday immediately following the first
Monday in March in the Commission rooms, at 9:00 a.m. (M.C.L.A. § 211.29)
   (B)   The Board of Review shall also meet on the second Monday in March at
9:00 a.m., and continue in session during the day for not less than six hours.
The Board shall also meet for not less than six hours during the remainder of
that week. Persons or their agents who have appeared to file a protest before
the Board of Review at a scheduled meeting or at a scheduled appointment shall
be afforded an opportunity to be heard by the Board of Review. (M.C.L.A. §
211.30(1))
   (C)   The completed assessment roll shall be delivered by the by the
Assessor to the County Equalization Director not later than the tenth day after
the adjournment of the Board of Review, or the Wednesday following the first
Monday in April, whichever date occurs first. (M.C.L.A. § 211.30(4))
Statutory reference:
   For additional statutory requirements, see M.C.L.A. §§ 211.29 and 211.30
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
§ 33.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Special Assessment
Ordinance” of the city.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
Cross-reference:
   Adopt ordinance, assessment procedure, see Charter
Art. IX, § 2
§ 33.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, said
reference shall include the cost of services, plans, condemnation, spreading of
rolls, notices, advertising, financing, construction and legal fees and all
other costs incident to the making of such improvement, the special assessments
therefor and the financing thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to  benefit especially any real property or properties with a district, such
benefit being over and above that derived by the city at large.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.17 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS.
   The whole cost or any part thereof of any local public improvement may be
defrayed by special assessment upon the lands specially benefited by the
improvement in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.18 RESOLUTION TO INITIATE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the city, the
tentative necessity thereof, and the determination that the whole or any part
of the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the
property especially benefited, provided that all special assessments levied
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be
commenced by resolution of the Commission, with or without a petition.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.19 INITIATION BY PETITION.
   Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by property
owners whose aggregate frontage represents more than 50% of the frontage of the
property in the proposed district. Petition for local improvement shall be made
on the petition forms provided by the City Clerk. This requirement may be
waived by the Commission. Such petition shall contain a brief description of
the property owned by the respective signatories thereof and if it shall appear
that the petition is signed by more than 50% as aforesaid, the City Clerk shall
certify same to the Commission. The petition shall be addressed to the
Commission and filed with the City Clerk and shall in no event be considered
directory but is advisory only.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.20 SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the Commission shall consider the making of any local public
improvement, the same shall be referred by resolution to the City Manager
directing him/her to cause to be prepared a report which shall include
necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates of cost, an
estimate of the life of the improvement, a description of the assessment
district or districts, and such other pertinent information as will permit the
Commission to decide the cost, extent and necessity of the improvement proposed
and what part or proportion thereof should be paid by special assessments upon
the property especially benefited and what part, if any, should be paid by the
city at large. The Commission shall not finally determine to proceed with the
making of any local public improvement until such report of the City Manager
has been filed, nor until after a public hearing has been held by the
Commission for the purpose of hearing objections to the making of such
improvement.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.21 DETERMINATION ON PROJECT.
   After the City Manager has presented the report required in §
33.20 for making any local public improvement as requested in the resolution of
the Commission, and the Commission has reviewed said report, a resolution may
be passed tentatively determining the necessity of the improvement, setting
forth the nature thereof, prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of
such improvement shall be paid by special assessment upon the property
especially benefited, determination of benefits received by affected
properties, and what part, if any, shall he paid by the city at large;
designating the limits of the special assessment district to be affected,
designating whether to be assessed according to frontage or other benefits,
placing the complete information on file in the office of the City Clerk, where
the same may be found for examination, and directing the City Clerk to give
notice of public hearing on the proposed improvement, at which time and place
opportunity will be given interested persons to be heard. Such notice shall be
given by one publication in a newspaper published or circulated within the city
and by first class mail addressed to each owner of or person in interest in
property to be assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the
city, said publication and mailing to be made at least ten full days prior to
the date of said hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at
any regular, adjourned, or special meeting of the Commission.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.22 HEARING ON NECESSITY.
   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons interested
shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Commission may
modify the scope of the local public improvement in such a manner as it shall
deem to be in the best interest of the city as a whole; provided that if the
amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district, then another
hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in §
33.21. If the determination of the Commission shall be to proceed with the
improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimates of cost, and
directing the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the Commission's determination and report the same to the Commission for
confirmation.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.23 DEVIATION FROM PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No deviation from original plans or specifications as adopted, other than
changes of a technical nature that do not alter the nature, or scope of the
improvement, shall be permitted by any officer or employee of the city without
authority of the Commission by resolution. A copy of the resolution authorizing
such changes or deviation shall be certified by the City Clerk and attached to
the original plans and specifications on file in his/her office.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.24 LIMITATIONS ON PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
   The Commission shall specify the provisions and procedures for financing a
local public improvement. No contract or expenditure, except for the cost of
preparing necessary profiles, plans, specifications and estimates of cost,
shall be made for the improvement, nor shall any improvement be commenced until
the special assessment roll to defray the costs of the same shall have been
made and confirmed.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.25 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and parcels of
land within the designated district benefited by the proposed improvement and
access to each lot or parcel of land the proportionate amount benefited
thereby. The amount spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed
estimate of the City Manager as approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.26 ASSESSOR TO FILE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When the Assessor shall have completed such assessment roll he/she shall
file the same with the City Clerk for presentation to the Commission for review
and certification by it.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.27 REVIEW OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such special assessment roll, the Commission, by
resolution, shall accept such assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the City Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place
the Commission will meet to review such special assessment roll and direct the
City Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard. Such notice shall be given by
one publication in a newspaper published or circulated within the city and by
first class mail addressed to each owner of or person in interest in property
to be assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the city
said publication and mailing to made at least ten full days prior to the date
of said hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at any
regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Commission. At this meeting, all
interested persons or parties shall present their objections, if any, to the
assessments against the properties benefited.
   (B)   The Commission shall meet at the time and place designated for the
review of the special assessment roll, and at the meeting, or a proper
adjournment, shall consider all objections submitted in writing. The Commission
may correct said roll as to any special assessment or description of any lot or
parcel of land or other errors appearing therein; or it may, by resolution,
annul the assessment roll and direct that new proceedings be instituted. The
new proceedings may be commenced at any phase of the petition and hearing
process described that shall have been satisfactorily completed. The same
proceeding shall be followed in making a new roll as in the making of the
original roll. If, after hearing all objections and making a record of the
changes as the Commission deems justified, the Commission determines that it is
satisfied with said special assessment roll and that assessments are in
proportion to benefits received, it shall pass a resolution reciting its
determinations, confirming such roll, placing it on file, in the office of the
City Clerk and directing the City Clerk to deliver to the City Assessor within
ten days a certified copy thereof. The Assessor shall spread and the City
Treasurer shall collect the various sums and amounts appearing thereon as
directed by the Commission. The roll shall have the date of confirmation
endorsed thereon and shall from that date be final and conclusive for the
purpose of the improvement to which it applies, subject only to adjustment to
conform to the actual cost of the improvement, as provided in §
33.32 of this chapter.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.28 PAYMENT IN ANNUAL INSTALLMENTS.
   The Commission may provide for the payment of special assessments in annual
installments. The annual installments shall not exceed the lesser of the usable
life of the project or 30 in number, the first installment being spread upon
the next annual city tax roll and made a part of each annual city tax roll
thereafter until all are paid. Interest shall be charged on all installments at
a rate not to exceed 7% or the maximum authorized by state law, commencing on a
date determined by the Commission, and payable on the due date of each
installment, the full amount of all or any deferred installments, with interest
accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid in advance of the due dates
thereof, provided, however, that in the event that special assessment bonds are
issued in anticipation of the collection of said installments, the interest on
the roll shall be at a rate not greater than 1% in excess of the rate on
interest borne by said bonds. Deferred installments shall be collected without
penalty until 30 days after the due date, after which time the installments
shall be collected as delinquent and the penalty on said installments shall be
collected and provided in the City Charter for collection of delinquent general
city taxes. After the Commission has confirmed the roll, the City Treasurer
shall notify, by mail, each property owner on said roll that said roll has been
filed, stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the
part of the City Treasurer to give said notice or of such owner to receive said
notice shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the city or any
assessment thereon, nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76; Am. Ord. 522, passed 5-2-77)
§ 33.29 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges from the date of
confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the city from the persons to
whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien upon the
property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien created by
general law for the state and county taxes and by the City Charter for city
taxes, and the lands upon which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale
the same as are lands upon which delinquent city taxes constitute a lien.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.30 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   The City Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, compile and certify the actual cost to the Assessor
who shall adjust the special assessment roll correspondingly. Should the
assessment prove larger than necessary, the same shall be reported to the
Commission which may make a refund thereof pro rata according to the
assessment. No refunds of special assessments may be made which impair, or
contravene the provision of any outstanding obligation or bond secured in whole
or part by such special assessments. When any special assessment roll shall
prove insufficient to meet the cost of the improvement for which it was made,
the Commission may make an additional pro rata assessment.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.31 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this chapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Commission shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures
required.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.32 FUND FOR PAYMENT OF BONDS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment roll or combination of rolls shall be set in a separate fund for the
payment of the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of
the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.33 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be had in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds be
authorized.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.34 RE-ASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the Commission shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in
whole or in part, the Commission shall have power to cause a new assessment to
be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether
the improvement or any part thereof has been completed and whether any part of
the assessment has been collected or not. All proceedings on such re-assessment
and for the collection thereof shall be made in the manner as provided for the
original assessment. If any portion of the original assessment shall have been
collected and not refunded, it shall be applied upon the re-assessment and the
reassessment shall, to that extent, be deemed satisfied. If more than the
amount reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to
the person making the payment.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.35 COMBINATION OF DISTRICTS.
   The Commission may combine several districts into one project, provided,
however, that for each district there shall be established separate funds and
accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.36 ASSESSMENT OF SINGLE LOTS OR PARCELS.
   When any expense shall be incurred by the city upon or in respect to any
separate or single lot, parcel or premises which the Commission may charge and
collect as a special assessment against the same (and not being of that class
of special assessments required to be made pro rata upon several lots or
parcels in a special assessment district), proceedings necessary to be had
before making the improvement shall, in the discretion of the Commission, not
apply to assessments to cover the expenses incurred, in respect to that class
of improvements contemplated in this section. The owner of such separate or
single lot, parcel or premises may consent to the making of a special
assessment without the necessity of conducting a public hearing relative to
necessity or the special assessment roll and without notices of hearing as
provided.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
§ 33.37 AUTHORIZATION OF BONDS.
   Bonds issued in anticipation of the collection of special assessments and
general obligation bonds evidencing the city's share of the cost of any local
improvement, may be authorized by resolution of the Commission.
(Ord. 512, passed 12-20-76)
TAXABLE PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 33.50 DUTIES OF CITY ASSESSOR.
   (A)   The City Assessor shall ascertain the taxable value of real and
personal property of the city of Mount Pleasant as of Tax Day, which shall be
December 31 of each year.
   (B)   For this purpose, he/she shall require every person who he/she
believes has personal property in his/her possession, whether held by him/her
for his/her use or the use of another, to make and subscribe to a true and
correct written statement of all the personal property of such person, firm or
corporation, whether owned by him/her or it or held for the use of another.
   (C)   The written statement, provided for in division (B) above, shall be in
form and of such content as shall be prescribed by the City Assessor, and/or as
required by statute, and shall be completed and delivered to the City Assessor
on or before February 20 of each year.
(Ord. 514, passed 12-20-76)
Statutory reference:
   For additional statutory requirements, see M.C.L.A. §§ 211.18 - 211.20
   For time, contents, and method of property tax assessment roll, see M.C.L.A.
§ 211.24
§ 33.51 NEGLECT OR REFUSAL TO FILE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   In every case when any person or member of a firm or officer of any
corporation shall willfully neglect or refuse to make out a true and correct
sworn statement as herein provided, or shall answer falsely or refuse to answer
questions concerning his/her property or property under his/her control as
required by this chapter, such person shall be punished as provided in M.C.L.A.
§ 211.21.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Assessor whenever he/she is satisfied
that any person liable to make such assessing statement is justly liable to
such penalty, to report the case to the City Attorney and make proper complaint
for such prosecution.
(Ord. 514, passed 12-20-76)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 211.21
CHAPTER 34: RECOVERED STOLEN PROPERTY
Section
   
34.01   Application of provisions
   
34.02   Report to Commission; money credited to General Fund
   
34.03   Authority for sale
   
34.04   Receipts from sale
   
34.05   Validity of claim
   
34.06   Reimbursement, limitation
§ 34.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any stolen money or other
property recovered by the Police Department which shall not be claimed within
six months after said recovery.
(Ord. 450, passed 6-7-71)
§ 34.02 REPORT TO COMMISSION; MONEY CREDITED TO GENERAL FUND.
   Forthwith after the expiration of said six months period, the Director of
Public Safety or his/her designee shall report to the Commission, listing the
money or other property so recovered and held, and requesting authority from
the Commission to turn any money over to the City Treasurer to be credited to
the general fund and requesting authority from the Commission to sell at public
sale any other property so recovered and held.
(Ord. 450, passed 6-7-71)
§ 34.03 AUTHORITY FOR SALE.
   The Commission shall act on the request of the Director of Public Safety or
his/her designee within six months after the receipt of such request. In case
authority is granted to the Director of Public Safety or his/her designee to
turn any money so recovered and held over to the City Treasurer or to sell any
other property so recovered and held, the Director of Public Safety or his/her
designee shall post three notices in the city or county in which the stolen
money or other property was recovered, and also publish notice in a newspaper
of general circulation in such city or county by insertions in two issues of
said newspaper. Such notice shall describe the money so recovered and held,
together with the time and place of public sale at which said other property
may be purchased by the highest bidder. Up until the date of sale, the money or
other property may be claimed at the Division of Public Safety, Mount Pleasant,
Michigan.
(Ord. 450, passed 6-7-71)
§ 34.04 RECEIPTS FROM SALE.
   After the holding of any such sale, the money received from such sale, after
deducting the cost of the conducting thereof, and any other money recovered and
held included in the notice provided for in §
34.03, shall be turned over to the City Treasurer to be credited to the general
fund of the city.
(Ord. 450, passed 6-7-71)
§ 34.05 VALIDITY OF CLAIM.
   Except as provided in §
34.06, no claim shall be valid to obtain any money or other property recovered
by the city police after notice and sale as provided in §
34.03, said property and money being considered as abandoned and belonging to
the city.
(Ord. 450, passed 6-7-71)
§ 34.06 REIMBURSEMENT, LIMITATION.
   The owner of the stolen property may prove his/her claim by proving the
identity of the property and be reimbursed from the City Treasurer in an amount
not to exceed the amount paid for such goods at said sale; provided, however,
that such claim shall have been filed with the Commission not later than six
months after said sale.
(Ord. 450, passed 6-7-71)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Department of Emergency Management
   
35.03   Powers and duties of the Mayor
   
35.04   Powers and duties of City Manager
   
35.05   Powers and duties of the Director of Emergency Management
   
35.06   Emergency management and disaster control plan
   
35.07   Conflicting ordinances and regulations
   
35.08   Violations
Statutory reference:
   Emergency Management Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 30.401 et seq.
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from enemy attack or natural disaster which
cannot be handled by normal operating personnel and facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which the military forces are
primarily responsible, for protection against and to minimize and repair injury
and damage resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or
by natural disaster.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the emergency management organization.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition seriously affecting or threatening public
health,  welfare, or security as a result of severe fire, explosion, flood,
tornado, hurricane, or similar natural or accidental cause and which is beyond
the control of public or private agencies ordinarily responsible for the
control or relief of such conditions. Riots, strikes, insurrections or other
civil disturbances shall not be included within the meaning of NATURAL
DISASTER.
§ 35.02 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   A Department of Emergency Management is hereby created utilizing to the
fullest extent personnel and facilities of existing city departments and
agencies. The City Manager shall be responsible for its organization,
administration, and operation. The organization shall consist of the following:
   (A)   A Department of Emergency Management within the executive department
of the city government. There shall be an executive head of the Department of
Emergency Management, appointed in the manner provided in the Charter for the
appointment of the majority of administrative officials specifically enumerated
in the Charter, who shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, and
such assistants, clerical help, other employees and emergency management
volunteers as are deemed necessary to the proper functioning of the
organization.
   (B)   Five designees with responsibility for financial services, law
enforcement, fire control, engineering services, and health and medical
services, appointed by the City Manager. These shall, so far as possible, be
additional duty assignments to existing personnel, and it is the intent of this
chapter that emergency management and disaster assignments shall be as nearly
consistent with normal duty assignment as possible.
   (C)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all city departments, and
agencies suitable for, or adaptable to emergency management and designated by
the City Manager to participate in the emergency management activity.
   (D)   Emergency management volunteers, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the organization.
Cross-reference:
   Appointment of city officials, see Charter
Art. III, § 2.
§ 35.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   In the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or natural disaster,
the Mayor, or in his/her absence or inability to serve, the Mayor Pro Tem, as
conservator of the peace, shall:
      (1)   Declare a state of emergency within the city thereby placing in
effect the emergency management and disaster control plan required by this
chapter.
      (2)   As soon as may be thereafter, convene the Commission to perform its
legislative and administrative functions as the situation may demand. The
Commission shall have the power to terminate the state of emergency. The state
of emergency shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven
days except with the consent of the Commission.
      (3)   Request the state, its agencies or political subdivisions to send
aid if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency city
forces.
      (4)   Have the power to command services and the use of equipment, and
facilities for such work and duties as the city may require to aid the regular
and volunteer city forces in time of emergency.
      (5)   Promulgate such emergency regulations as may be deemed necessary to
protect life and property and conserve critical resources, and such regulations
may be invoked when necessary for test of emergency management and disaster
plans. All such regulations shall be subject to approval of the Commission as
soon as practicable subsequent to promulgation.
   (B)   The Mayor, or in his/her absence or inability to serve, the Mayor Pro
Tem, shall have power to order emergency management forces to the aid of the
state or political subdivisions thereof subject to Commission review as soon as
practicable.
§ 35.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the City Manager shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   The City Manager, through the Director of Emergency Management,
shall maintain general supervision over the planning and administration for the
Emergency Management Organization and the execution of the emergency management
and disaster plans. He/she shall coordinate the emergency management activities
and make emergency assignments of emergency management duties and emergency
management forces in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties
of such forces.
      (2)   The City Manager may take all necessary action to conduct tests of
the emergency management and natural disaster plans.
      (3)   When a state of emergency has been declared, the City Manager shall
assemble and utilize emergency management forces and prescribe the manner and
conditions of their use.
      (4)   The City Manager shall designate a line of succession among his/her
department heads to carry out the powers and duties of this division in the
event of his/her absence or inability to serve.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to exercise the powers granted
to the Mayor in §
35.03, hereof, either in the absence or inability to serve of the Mayor and
Mayor Pro Tem or where delay in the exercise of such powers would be contrary
to the public interest.
§ 35.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Director shall be executive head of the Department of Emergency
Management, and shall have responsibility for the organization, administration,
and operation of the Emergency Management and Disaster Control Organization
subject to the direction and control of the City Manager.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be responsible for public
relations, information, and education regarding all phases of emergency
management.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a emergency
management and disaster control plan, and upon adoption, shall be responsible
for such implementation as revision of the plan as to maintain it on a current
state of readiness at all times.
   (D)   The Director shall coordinate all activities for emergency management
and disaster control, and shall maintain liaison and cooperate with all other
interested and affected agencies, public and private.
   (E)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
city for emergency management purposes.
   (F)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
§ 35.06 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER CONTROL PLAN.
   As soon as practicable after the enactment of this chapter, a comprehensive
emergency management and disaster control plan shall be adopted by resolution
of the Commission upon the recommendations of the City Manager. In the
preparation of this plan as it pertains to city organization, it is the intent
that the services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing
departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible. When
approved it shall be the duty of all municipal departments and agencies to
perform the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to maintain their
portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
§ 35.07 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
§ 35.08 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or delay
the Emergency Management Organization in the enforcement of any rule or
regulation issued pursuant to this chapter, or to do any act forbidden by any
rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained in this chapter.
It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display any
emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
Emergency Management Organization of the city unless authority so to do has
been granted to such person by the proper officials. Convictions for violations
of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Commencement of action
   
36.03   Issuance and service of citation
   
36.04   Contents of citations
   
36.05   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
36.06   Schedule of civil fines established
   
36.07   Violations
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Civil Infractions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq.
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. A police officer, code enforcement personnel or
anyone designated by the City Manager, including in appropriate circumstances
law enforcement, code enforcement or ordinance enforcement officers of the
Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan upon whom the City Manager has
conferred such authority, or other personnel of the city authorized by this
code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction citations or
municipal civil infraction violation notices. A park attendant shall also be
considered to be an AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL with respect to violations of the
park ordinance.
   BUREAU. The City of Mount Pleasant Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, as
established by this chapter.
   CITATION or MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or
notice, in a form approved under applicable state or tribal law for use in the
applicable court of competent jurisdiction, prepared by an authorized city
official, directing a person to appear in court regarding the occurrence or
existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the person cited.
   COURT, COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION or DISTRICT COURT. Generally, the
76th District Court of the State of Michigan, except when otherwise required by
the Zoning and Land Use Agreement, the Law Enforcement Agreement, or the Local
Regulation Agreement between the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan and
the city, entered by the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Michigan, Northern Division, Case No. 05-10296-BC, on December 17, 2010, in
which case COURT, COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION or DISTRICT COURT shall mean
the appropriate tribal court of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the City Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed
for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the city, as
authorized under M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8396 and 600.8707(6).
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11)
§ 36.02 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the City Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95)
§ 36.03 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF CITATION.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the state court administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the city
and issued to the alleged violator as provided by M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint and
if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official:
   “I declare under the penalties of perjury that the statements above are true
to the best of my information, knowledge, and belief.”
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction,
and if the prosecuting attorney or city attorney approves in writing the
issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
city official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (G)(2) below, an authorized city
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner
of the land, building, or structure at the owner's last known address.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95)
§ 36.04 CONTENTS OF CITATIONS.
   (A)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and address of
the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the place where
the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court,
and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance, or in person, or by
representation.
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing in court, without
the opportunity of being represented by an attorney, unless a formal hearing is
requested by the city.
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing, with the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation.
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the city.
      (4)   That at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
court without the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
      (5)   That at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person in court with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldface type that the failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11)
§ 36.05 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established. The city hereby establishes a Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau (“Bureau”) as authorized under M.C.L.A. § 600.8396 to accept
admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions in response to
municipal civil infraction violation notices issued and served by authorized
city officials, and to collect and retain civil fines and costs as prescribed
by this code or any ordinance.
   (B)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations. The Bureau
shall be located at Mount Pleasant City Hall, and shall be under the
supervision and control of the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer, subject to
the approval of the Commission, shall adopt rules and regulations for the
operation of the Bureau and appoint any necessary qualified city employees to
administer the Bureau.
   (C)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice (as compared with a citation) has
been issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a particular violation
shall not entitle any person to dispose of the violation at the Bureau. Nothing
in this chapter shall prevent or restrict the city from issuing a municipal
civil infraction citation for any violation or from prosecuting any violation
in a court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall be required to dispose of
a municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau and may have the violation
processed before a court of competent jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any
person to dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person
or in any way diminish the person's rights, privileges and protection accorded
by law.
   (D)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The scope of
the Bureau's authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
   (E)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. Municipal civil
infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized city
officials under the same circumstances and upon the same persons as provided
for citations as provided in § 36.03(F) and (G). In addition to any other
information required by this code or other ordinance, the notice of violation
shall indicate the time by which the alleged violator must appear at the
Bureau, the methods by which an appearance may be made, the address and
telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau is open, the
amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged violation, and the consequences
for failure to appear and pay the required fine within the required time.
   (F)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and
pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in
the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by
mail, in person, or by representation.
   (G)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice, and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may
be filed with the court and a copy of the citation may be served by first-class
mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator's last-known address.
The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all particulars
with the requirements for citations as provided by M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and
600.8709, but shall consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations
stated in the municipal ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the
alleged violator how to respond to the citation.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11)
§ 36.06 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES ESTABLISHED.
   A schedule of civil fines payable to the Bureau for admissions of
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violation notices is
hereby established by virtue of amendments the applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95)
§ 36.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations of ordinances for which civil fines are established and all
other violations designated as such shall be municipal civil infractions
governed by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Unless a violation of this code or any ordinance of the city is
specifically designated in the code or ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction, the violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 763, passed 8-14-95)
CHAPTER 37: RETIRED PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEES HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Short title
   
37.03   Interpretation and law; construction
   
37.04   Collective bargaining agreements and personnel policies
   
37.05   Definitions
   
37.06   Notice
   
37.07   Reporting and disclosure
   
37.08   Amendments
Health Care Plan
   
37.20   Benefit groups
   
37.21   Eligibility
   
37.22   Commencement of benefit
   
37.23   Enrollment
   
37.24   Termination of benefits
   
37.25   Health care benefits - general
   
37.26   Health care benefits - costs
   
37.27   Alternative policies or programs
   
37.28   Duplicate coverage disallowed
   
37.29   Medicare eligibility
   
37.30   Coordination of benefits
   
37.31   Plan administration - city duties
   
37.32   Plan administration - insurance carrier duties
   
37.33   Plan administration - Plan Administrator duties
   
37.34   Plan administration - City Manager duties
   
37.35   Health care benefits, claims procedure
   
37.36   Funding
Declaration of Police Retiree Health Care Fund
   
37.50   Irrevocable fund trust, established
   
37.51   Use of fund assets
   
37.52   Funding
   
37.53   Board of Trustees
   
37.54   Trustees' terms of office
   
37.55   Officers and administration
   
37.56   Board meetings
   
37.57   Compensation
   
37.58   Trustees' powers and responsibilities
   
37.59   Fund liabilities
   
37.60   Termination of the fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide health insurance benefits
approved by collective bargaining agreements and PACT Employee Benefits and
Personnel Policies for the welfare of the retirees of the city who are eligible
to receive a retirement benefit from the City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire
Retirement System.
   (B)   This chapter is created under the authority of the Public Employee
Health Care Fund Investment Act, Public Act 149 of 1999, for the exclusive
purpose of accumulating and investing funds to provide benefits through
policies issued by duly licensed commercial insurance companies, through a fund
of self-insurance, or through any other lawful means of providing group health
insurance as determined by city decisions and in accordance with any and all
applicable collective bargaining agreements between the city and applicable
collective bargaining associations and PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel
Policies, and for the benefit of the City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire
Retirement System retirees who are eligible to participate in accordance with
this chapter. The city intends the benefits to be provided by the establishment
and maintenance of a fund in conformance with all applicable federal statutes
and regulations, state and local law.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to enter into insurance agreements and to
modify, alter or amend such agreements from time to time, with commercial
insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider
organizations or any other qualified entity currently existing or created for
the purpose of providing benefits under this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the City of Mt. Pleasant Police
Retiree Health Care Plan ("plan").
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.03 INTERPRETATION AND LAW; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   This chapter is established in accordance with the Public Employee
Health Care Fund Investment Act, Public Act 149 of 1999, as may be amended, and
shall be administered consistent with applicable federal and Michigan law. If
any provisions of this chapter shall be for any reason invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions nevertheless shall be carried into
effect.
   (B)   Neither the establishment of this chapter nor any modification thereof
nor the creation of any fund or account nor the payment of any benefits shall
be construed as giving to any person covered under this chapter or other person
any legal or equitable right against the city, its elected or appointed
officials or employees, the trustees or any individual trustee, nor any title
or interest in any assets of the city, its elected or appointed officials or
employees, or any trustee except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Neither the city nor the trustees shall be responsible for the
validity of any insurance agreement issued in connection with this chapter or
for the failure on the part of the insurer to make payments provided by such
insurance agreement, or for the action of any person which may delay payment or
render an insurance agreement null and void or unenforceable in whole or in
part.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.04 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS AND PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   (A)   The benefit provisions of this chapter are subject to relevant
provisions of applicable collective bargaining agreements between the city and
the various collective bargaining associations of the city. The provisions of a
collective bargaining agreement relative to retiree health care benefits are
controlling in the event of a conflict between the terms of the collective
bargaining agreement and this chapter.
   (B)   The benefit provisions of this chapter are subject to relevant
provisions of PACT employee benefit policies as approved by the City Commission
for non-union members of this chapter. The provisions of the PACT Employee
Benefits and Personnel Policies relative to retiree health care benefits are
controlling in the event of a conflict between the terms of the PACT Employee
Benefits and Personnel Policies and this chapter.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to modify or limit
in any way the rights that the parties to the collective bargaining agreement
or members covered under the PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies may
have, any supplements or memoranda thereto, or any arbitrator's award to
enforce the terms of this chapter, inclusive of the collection of any amounts
due to the trust and the right of the parties to sue for same.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE PLAN . The current benefits in effect for the bargaining unit and PACT
unit of which the retiree was a member, as provided by the policy or the
comprehensive program (exclusive of HMO, PPO and other alternative plans) or by
a substantially equivalent policy or program at the election of the city.
   CITY . The City of Mt. Pleasant, Michigan.
   CODE . The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including any
regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder. Reference to any section or
subsection of the code includes reference to any comparable or succeeding
provision of any legislation which amends or replaces such section or
subsection.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS . Any written agreement, supplemental
agreement, memorandum of understanding, final arbitrator's decision, judicial
decision or decision of any public board or agency, by and between applicable
collective bargaining associations and the city and any amendments,
continuations or renewals which require the city or any other entity to make
payments into group health insurance programs for police employees who are
members of the City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement System.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ASSOCIATIONS . Those associations which participate in
this plan.
   CONTRIBUTIONS . The payment required to be made to the fund by the city and/
or employees under the terms of this chapter or under any applicable existing
collective bargaining agreements or PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel
Policies or any future collective bargaining agreements or PACT Employee
Benefits and Personnel Policies for the purpose of providing group health
insurance for retirees covered by this chapter.
   EFFECTIVE DATE . The date as provided in the applicable collective
bargaining agreement this upon which the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall become effective.
   EMPLOYEE . A person employed by the city.
   FUND . The City of Mt. Pleasant Police Retiree Health Care Fund of the City
of Mt. Pleasant Police Retiree Health Care Plan as provided for in §§
37.50 et seq. of this chapter.
   FUND ADMINISTRATOR . The person, persons, firm, corporation or insurance
company or companies appointed by the trustees to administer the fund. The Fund
Administrator shall be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the fund
and shall carry out the directives of the trustees. The Fund Administrator may
also serve as administrator for the retirement plans of the city.
   HEALTH CARE BENEFITS . Group health care benefits as currently provided and
any other future health care related benefits as may be determined to be part
of this chapter pursuant to city decisions and/or collective bargaining
agreements.
   INSURANCE AGREEMENT . The health insurance plans and any amendments thereto,
including any substitute insurance agreement with a commercial insurance
carrier, health maintenance organization, preferred provider organization, or
any other qualified entity currently existing or created for the purpose of
providing benefits under this chapter. The term INSURANCE AGREEMENT shall
include the plural where applicable.
   INSURANCE CARRIER . A commercial health insurance carrier, health
maintenance organization, preferred provider organization or other qualified
entity designated by the city to provide benefits under this chapter.
   INVESTMENT FIDUCIARY . The Board of Trustees of the Police Retiree Health
Care Fund as provided in §
37.53 of this chapter.
   PARTICIPANT . An employee who meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Who is included in the membership of the City of Mt. Pleasant
Police and Fire Retirement System, is covered by a collective bargaining
agreement with the city or PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies that
provide membership in this health care plan as a bargained for benefit and
whose participation has not terminated under other applicable provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Anyone the City Manager shall decide who is a participant within
the meaning of the provisions of this chapter provided such decision is
consistent with any applicable collective bargaining agreements or established
city policy.
   PLAN . The City of Mt. Pleasant Police Retiree Health Care Plan as described
in this chapter and any subsequent amendments and any insurance agreements,
collective bargaining agreements or other applicable insurance policy documents
incorporated by reference into this chapter. A description of the health
benefits provided to retirees under this chapter is maintained by the Plan
Administrator.
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR . The person, persons, firm, corporation or insurance
company or companies appointed by the city to administer this chapter. The Plan
Administrator shall be responsible for the day to day operations of this
chapter who shall carry out the directives of the city.
   PLAN YEAR . The period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 of
each year.
   RETIREE . An individual receiving a retirement benefit allowance from the
City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement System who retired from
employment with the city.
   RETIREMENT PLAN . The City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement
System.
   TRUSTEE(S) . The Board of Trustees of the fund or a member of the Board of
Trustees of the fund as provided for in §§ 37.50 et seq. of this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.06 NOTICE.
   Notice given to all interested parties shall, unless otherwise specified in
this chapter, be sufficient if in writing and delivered or sent by prepaid
first class mail. Except as otherwise noted, the distribution or delivery of
any statements or documents required under this chapter shall be sufficient if
delivered in person or prepaid first class mail.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.07 REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE.
   The city and the trustees or their respective designees shall complete and
provide to participant and retirees and to the appropriate government agencies
any reports as maybe required by the code and applicable federal, state or
local law.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.08 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter may be amended at anytime by ordinance
adopted by the City Commission in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
HEALTH CARE PLAN
§ 37.20 BENEFIT GROUPS.
   (A)   Composition. The following benefit groups are designated for the
purpose of determining benefit eligibility conditions, benefit amounts and
member contribution rates.
      (1)   Benefit group: Police. All employees who are members of the Mt.
Pleasant Patrol Officers Association affiliated with the Police Officers
Association of Michigan.
      (2)   Benefit group: Command. All employees who are members of the Mt.
Pleasant Command Officers Association.
      (3)   Uniformed PACT employee. All employees who are sworn officers of
the City of Mt. Pleasant not a part of a collective bargaining unit who select
retirement benefits from a bargaining unit for which this benefit is provided.
      (4)   Determination. In case of doubt, the City Manager shall determine
the benefit groups that apply to a particular member.
   (B)   Determination of benefits. Benefit eligibility conditions shall be
those applicable to the member's benefit group at the time of that member's
termination of membership.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.21 ELIGIBILITY.
   In order to be eligible for post-retirement health care benefits during any
plan year, an individual must:
   (A)   Meet all of the following:
      (1)   Have been a participant of this chapter;
      (2)    Have been an employee on the date preceding the effective date of
the retiree's retirement from the city; and
      (3)   Have met the requirements of the member's benefit group as follows:
         (a)   Benefit group: Police. Retire on or after January 1, 2002,
attain age 50 with 25 or more years of service or attain age 60;
         (b)   Benefit group: Command. Retire on or after January 1, 2002,
attain age 50 with 25 or more years of service or attain age 60;
         (c)   Uniformed PACT. Retire on or after January 1, 2002, attain age
50 with 25 or more years of service or attain age 60; or
   (B)   Be a retiree who was a participant of this chapter receiving duty and/
or non-duty disability benefits from the City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire
Retirement System; or
   (C)   Be a retiree who was in receipt of benefits at the effective date of
this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.22 COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFIT.
   Subject to all applicable provisions of this chapter and/or insurance
agreement, a participant shall commence eligibility for benefits from this
chapter on the first day he or she satisfies the eligibility requirements of §
37.21, provided the participant has enrolled for coverage on such date.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.23 ENROLLMENT.
   (A)   The city shall give each participant timely written notice of his or
her eligibility and his or her right to enroll for coverage under this chapter.
   (B)   A participant or retiree may enroll for coverage immediately upon
retirement or may make a one-time deferment to a date/event certain. The
participant or retiree shall make the election on a form or forms provided by
and filed with the Human Resources Department. In connection with his or her
enrollment for coverage, the participant or retiree shall furnish all pertinent
information requested by the city, Plan Administrator and/or the insurance
carrier. The Plan Administrator or the insurance carrier may rely upon all such
forms and information furnished.
   (C)   Participants or retirees must report changes impacting eligibility as
required by the Plan Administrator.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.24 TERMINATION OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
37.25, participation in this chapter shall terminate in accordance with this
chapter and/or insurance agreement or applicable collective bargaining
agreement, on the earliest of:
      (1)   Termination of this chapter;
      (2)   Non-payment of any required participant or retiree contributions;
      (3)   Death of the individual receiving benefits under this chapter;
      (4)   A participant's or retiree's election in writing to cease coverage
under this chapter;
      (5)   For certain benefit groups, in accordance with the applicable
collective bargaining agreement, if the retiree fails to enroll in Medicare
Part A and B.
   (B)   A retiree is ineligible to participate or re-enroll in this chapter
once participation ceases unless the retiree had been receiving medical
coverage through another employer or the retiree's spouse and subsequently lost
coverage.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.25 HEALTH CARE BENEFITS - GENERAL.
   (A)   Beginning on the effective date, the city shall provide, as reflected
in the applicable attachment, health care benefits to each eligible retiree
and, if elected and at the retiree's cost, to his or her eligible spouse or
dependents, unless modified by an applicable collective bargaining agreement,
PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies or ordinance of the City
Commission.
   (B)   The cost for said benefits shall be funded from the retiree Health
Care Fund subject to the limitations set forth in §
37.26 and the retiree's costs for elective coverage. The benefits provided
under this chapter are those set forth in this chapter and/or insurance
agreement and collective bargaining agreements or PACT Employee Benefits and
   (C)   The insurance agreements, collective bargaining agreements and PACT
Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies are incorporated herein by this
reference.
   (D)   A complete description of benefits provided under this chapter and the
insurance agreement, inclusive of those set forth in the collective bargaining
agreements and PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies, shall be
maintained by the city's Human Resources Department.
   (E)   In accordance with this chapter and/or insurance agreement with the
insurance carrier, retirees and their spouses and dependents will be entitled
to the benefits in effect for the employee's applicable bargaining unit or PACT
unit ("Base Plan"). These benefits may be provided under the same policy or
program in place at the retiree's retirement or under a substantially
equivalent policy or program at the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.26 HEALTH CARE BENEFITS - COSTS.
   The Retiree Health Care Fund will pay the monthly premiums for Base Plan
benefits subject to the following:
   (A)   Benefit group: Police. Commencing January 1, 2003, all active
employees shall contribute 2% of their gross wages to the Retiree Health Care
Fund. The employees will pay such contributions to the extent allowable under
applicable law to the Retiree Health Care Fund on a pre-tax ("employer pick-
up") basis.
   (B)   Benefit group: Command. Commencing January 1, 2003, all active
employees shall contribute 2% of their gross wages to the Retiree Health Care
Fund. The employees will pay such contributions to the extent allowable under
applicable law to the Retiree Health Care Fund on a pre-tax ("employer pick-
up") basis.
   (C)   Uniformed PACT employees. Commencing January 1, 2003, all active
employees shall contribute 2% of their gross wages to the Retiree Health Care
Fund. The employees will pay such contributions to the extent allowable under
applicable law to the Retiree Health Care Fund on a pre-tax ("employer pick-
up") basis.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.27 ALTERNATIVE POLICIES OR PROGRAMS.
   The city, in its discretion may offer alternative policies or benefit
structures to retirees. In the event that the city chooses to offer alternative
policies or benefit structures, retirees may transfer from one policy or
benefit structure to another policy or benefit structure during open enrollment
periods. However, any additional cost above the Base Plan shall be borne by the
participant or retiree or the participant's or retiree's spouse and/or
dependents.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.28 DUPLICATE COVERAGE DISALLOWED.
   (A)   If a retiree has similar health care benefits available through
another employer as are available under the terms of this chapter, the retiree
shall enroll in that employer's plan if required under the terms of the
applicable collective bargaining agreement or PACT Employee Benefits and
Personnel Policies.
   (B)   Duplicate coverage will not be provided in the event that there are
two or more participants and/or retirees who:
      (1)   Are each independently eligible for health care benefits from the
city or this chapter; and
      (2)   Are each also eligible for health care benefits from the city or
this chapter as a spouse or dependent of a participant or a retiree.
   (C)   Said parties shall be eligible to participate in only one policy or
program so that one party participates in the one policy or program as the
principal insured and the other party participates in the same policy or
program as a spouse or dependent of the participant or retiree. A dependent
shall suffer no detriment as a result of the disallowance of duplicate
coverage.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.29 MEDICARE ELIGIBILITY.
   Unless otherwise stated below, upon attaining the age of Medicare
eligibility all eligible retirees shall enroll in both Medicare A and B, and
are obligated to pay for Medicare Part B. Once a retiree is in receipt of
Medicare A and B coverage, this chapter will provide complimentary coverage as
provided pursuant to any applicable collective bargaining agreement or PACT
Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies. In the event a retiree is not
eligible for Medicare coverage, and provides proof of same to the Plan
Administrator, retiree shall be eligible for continued health care coverage at
the same benefit level under this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.30 COORDINATION OF BENEFITS.
   (A)   Intent. The city intends that this chapter shall provide each retiree
with payment for health care expenses incurred by the retiree, as provided in
this chapter and/or insurance agreement. The city does not intend that payment
under this chapter shall exceed the amount of the expenses incurred. For this
reason, this chapter coordinates benefits with other insurance policies
according to industry standards and applicable laws. If a participant becomes
eligible for Medicare, plan benefits for such participant will be adjusted to
reflect Medicare as primary coverage.
   (B)   Reimbursement. If an expense is paid under this chapter by the Plan
Administrator on behalf of a retiree and such expense subsequently is paid from
any other source, in whole or in part, the retiree shall remit to this chapter
an amount equal to the duplicated benefits. In addition, the Plan Administrator
may reimburse any other plan, person or entity that has paid an expense on
behalf of a retiree which expense was payable under this chapter. In such
event, this chapter, Plan Administrator and/or the insurance carrier shall be
relieved of all further responsibility with respect to that expense.
   (C)    Subrogation. In the event any payment is made by the fund under this
chapter, this chapter shall be subrogated and shall succeed to the rights of
any retiree against any other plan, person or entity for recovery of health
care expenses for which such other plan, person or entity legally is liable.
All amounts so recovered, by settlement, judgment or otherwise shall be paid to
the fund. Retirees shall furnish such information, execute and deliver such
assignments, documents or other instruments and take whatever steps are
necessary to secure the rights of this chapter. Retirees shall take no action
to prejudice the rights and interests of this chapter hereunder.
   (D)   Effect of exclusions. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to create any independent right to payment of any benefit under this
plan. Any exclusion or limitation contained in this chapter and/or insurance
agreement shall supersede any provision of this section regarding coordination
of benefits.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.31 PLAN ADMINISTRATION - CITY DUTIES.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for complying with the code's reporting
and disclosure requirements and for the purpose of fulfilling such other plan
administrative functions as are not specifically assigned to the Plan
Administrator and/or insurance carrier. The city may employ a Plan
Administrator and/or insurance carrier who will be responsible for the
interpretation and administration of this chapter including the payment of
health care claims under this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall be responsible for the performance of its duties as
employer and plan sponsor under applicable Internal Revenue Code sections. The
city may delegate all or any part of its plan administration responsibilities.
Any such delegation shall be done in writing.
   (C)   The city may employ one or more persons to render advice with regard
to any responsibility such fiduciary has under this chapter. Any fiduciary,
agent, representative or other person performing services to or for this
chapter shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for services rendered,
unless such person is employed by the city and already receives full pay from
the city, and to reimbursement or expenses properly and actually incurred.
   (D)   In administering this chapter, the city shall be entitled to the
extent permitted by law to rely conclusively on all tables, valuations,
certificates, opinions and reports which are furnished by or in accordance with
the instructions of accountants, counsel or other experts employed or engaged
by the city. All actions taken in a good faith reliance on advice from such
advisors are conclusive and binding upon all persons.
   (E)   The city shall furnish the Plan Administrator and/or insurance
carrier, while this chapter is in effect, any information as may be required at
intervals and in the form prescribed by the Plan Administrator and/or insurance
carrier for the enrollment of retirees for coverage under this chapter and for
the processing of terminations or other changes in coverage of retirees and
also shall furnish to the Plan Administrator and/or insurance carrier such
other information required for the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.32 PLAN ADMINISTRATION - INSURANCE CARRIER DUTIES.
   Each insurance carrier shall have the responsibility for interpreting and
administering their respective insurance agreement and for processing and
paying benefit claims thereunder and shall provide the city with such
information as the city may deem necessary to permit the timely filing of all
reports required by law. The insurance carrier also shall provide a description
of the benefits provided under their respective insurance agreement directly to
the retirees or to the city for distribution to retirees.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.33 PLAN ADMINISTRATION - PLAN ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.
   The Plan Administrator shall have the responsibility for interpreting and
administering this chapter and for processing and paying benefit claims
thereunder. The Plan Administrator shall exercise his or her authority in a
non-discriminatory manner so that all persons similarly situated shall receive
substantially the same treatment. The Plan Administrator shall maintain the
appropriate records and accounts necessary in the administration of this
chapter and shall provide the trustees with such information necessary to
permit the timely filing of all reports required by applicable laws or
regulations governing the fund.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.34 PLAN ADMINISTRATION - CITY MANAGER'S DUTIES.
   The City Manager shall be vested with the authority to render decisions
regarding participation in this chapter. Such authority shall be specifically
limited by:
   (A)   The eligibility requirements of §
37.21 or as otherwise provided for in this chapter; and
   (B)   The city's ability to obtain coverage under this chapter and/or from
the applicable insurance carrier.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.35 HEALTH CARE BENEFITS, CLAIMS PROCEDURES.
   A claim for benefits under this chapter must be submitted in writing to the
Plan Administrator and/or insurance carrier in accordance with procedures
established by the Plan Administrator or this chapter and/or insurance carrier.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.36 FUNDING.
   For the purpose of creating and maintaining this chapter for the payment of
benefits payable as provided in this subchapter, the city shall appropriate an
amount sufficient to maintain the fund subject to the provisions of §§
37.50 et seq. of this chapter or the city may elect to fund the retiree health
care benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
DECLARATION OF POLICE RETIREE HEALTH CARE FUND
§ 37.50 IRREVOCABLE FUND TRUST, ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The fund established in this chapter isestablished in accordance with
Public Act 149 of 1999, and shall be irrevocable and shall conform to all
applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code, the collective bargaining
agreements, PACT Employee Benefit and Personnel Policies, the statement of
purpose in §
37.01 of this chapter and all statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations,
arbitrators' awards and judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing
provisions.
   (B)   The fund shall consist of city contributions, employee contributions,
all investments made or held under the fund and all income therefrom, both
received and accrued, and any other property which may be received or held by
reason of this fund.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.51 USE OF FUND ASSETS.
   (A)   No part of the net earnings of the fund may inure to the benefit of
any participant or retiree other than by benefit payment; or for services
provided to the trustees in the administration of the fund. The fund assets
shall not be used for or diverted to purposes other than to provide the
benefits contemplated under this chapter for the exclusive benefit of retirees
except any administrative expenses for which the fund is liable. A portion of
net earnings may be used for payment of reasonable and necessary professional
services, costs and expenses related to assisting the trustees and Fund
Administrator in the operation of the fund.
   (B)   All income, profits, recoveries, contributions, forfeitures and any
and all monies, securities and properties of any kind at any time received or
held by the trustees hereunder shall become part of the fund when received and
shall be held for the use and purposes hereof.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.52 FUNDING.
   (A)   For the purpose of creating and maintaining a fund for the payment of
health care benefits payable as provided in this chapter, the city intends to
pay to the fund an amount consistent with the actuarial valuations and
calculations made by the actuary forthe fund to result in a pre-funded plan.
The city reserves the right to fund these health care benefits on a "pay-as-
you-go" basis. Such contributions shall also be made in accordance with any:
      (1)   Collective bargaining agreements between the collective bargaining
associations and the city;
      (2)   PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies;
      (3)   This fund; and
      (4)   Such other regulations of the Board of Trustees as are not
inconsistent with the authority stated in this chapter.
   (B)   Benefit Groups, Police, Command and PACT, commencing January 1, 2003,
all active employees shall contribute 2% of their gross wages on a pre-tax
basis ("employer pick-up") to the fund.
   (C)   Subject to the tax provisions of the City Charter and state law, the
city may, to the extent not set forth in the fund, use their discretion to
decide the manner and means of payments, the procedures to be followed in
making the payments and the forms required to accompany the payments to the
trustees.
   (D)   Time is of the essence in making and processing all payments to the
fund. The parties recognize that the regular and timely payments of
contributions are essential to the operation of the fund and to the providing
of benefits under various insurance programs.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.53 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the same five individual
trustees who serve as members of the Board of Trustees of the City of Mt.
Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement System, as follows:
      (1)   The Treasurer of the city;
      (2)   The same two elected uniformed employee representatives that serve
on the Board of Trustees of the City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement
System;
      (3)   The same two appointed representatives that serve on the Board of
Trustees of the City of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement System.
   (B)   The general administration, management and responsibility for the
proper operation of the fund and for making effective and construing the
provisions of the fund shall be vested in the Board of Trustees established by
this section, consistent with applicable state and federal laws and
regulations. A trustee or other fiduciary under the fund shall discharge his or
her duties with respect to the fund solely in the interest of the participants
for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and paying
reasonable expenses of administering the fund. A trustee shall discharge his or
her duties with the care, skill and caution under the circumstances then
prevailing which a prudent person, acting in a like capacity and familiar with
those matters, would use in the conduct of an activity of like character and
purpose.
   (C)   The election of the employee trustees provided in (A)(2) of this
section shall be held under such rules and regulations as the collective
bargaining units shall adopt.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.54 TRUSTEES' TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The regular terms of office of the trustees shall coincide with and be
identical to the trustees' terms of office on the Board of Trustees of the City
of Mt. Pleasant Police and Fire Retirement System.
   (B)   Each trustee shall serve until the expiration of his or her term of
office or until his or her death, incapacity, resignation or removal.
   (C)   A vacancy or vacancies in the office of the trustees shall not impair
the powers of the remaining trustees to administer the affairs of the fund,
provided there are sufficient trustees to constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.55 OFFICERS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   At its meeting in January of each year, the trustees shall elect a
president and a secretary from the group of the then existing trustees and the
president and secretary shall serve a term of one year or until a new president
and secretary are elected.
   (B)   Consistent with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, the
trustees shall have the power to promulgate rules and regulations for the day-
to-day management of the fund, to invest monies held by the fund, to determine
all questions regarding the interpretation of the fund, and to handle such
other fund related subjects as shall be deemed necessary and proper by the
trustees. If any rule or regulation of the fund or part thereof is found to be
in conflict with any collective bargaining agreement, PACT Employee Benefits
and Personnel Policies, law, statute, judicial decision, arbitration decision
or any other competent body or tribunal, such rule or regulation or part
thereof shall be deemed voided and all other rules and regulations of the fund
shall remain in full force and effect.
   (C)   Whenever the signature of a trustee is required on any document, the
signature of the president and secretary shall be required.
   (D)   In the event of any suit brought against the trustees arising out of
the acts within the scope, powers and duties of the trustees or in the event of
any lawsuit brought by the trustees as authorized by this chapter, the cost of
defense or prosecution of such lawsuit shall be charged to the fund and shall
be paid directly from the fund, provided such costs are not incurred by reason
of bad faith, gross negligence or breach of a fiduciary obligation to the fund
or to the beneficiaries thereof.
   (E)   The trustees may employ such clerical personnel or administrative
personnel to perform whatever administrative activities are required in the
proper performance of the fund. In addition thereto, the trustees may, if they
desire, contract with an administrator to perform such clerical and
administrative duties as they may in their sole discretion determine is
reasonably and prudently necessary to carry out the fund's activities and
purposes. Under no circumstances shall said administrator have control or
authority with respect to the management of the fund or its assets. The said
administrator shall not be clothed with any type of authority or power which
will constitute the administrator as a fiduciary. Said administrator will not
have the power or authority to act as an investment counselor or manager and
will not be authorized to furnish investment advice.
   (F)   The Board may utilize city staff for such functions as personnel
administration, accounting, banking and purchasing. In such utilization, the
Board will comply with all established city control procedures and policies
related to these services. The Board will annually reimburse the city for
actual costs of these services as determined by a method jointly agreed upon by
the Board and the city.
   (G)   City employees, upon the request of the Board, may also be assigned to
the fund for the proper operation of the fund. Said employees shall be subject
to the supervision of the Board. The Board shall have the authority to
establish job descriptions and promulgate rules and regulations appropriate for
the fund in addition to those adopted by City Commission. The supervision of
city employees by the Board shall not serve to impair the authority and
responsibility of the City Administrator under the City Charter for personnel
services. The Board will annually reimburse the city for the actual costs of
these employees as determined by a method jointly agreed upon by the Board and
the city.
   (H)   The trustees may employ an investment manager to manage the assets of
the fund. Such investment manager must be registered under the Investment
Advisor's Act of 1940, as amended, and must meet any applicable state and
federal requirements to act as an investment manager. The trustees may, if they
deem proper in their discretion or if the circumstances require it, appoint
such investment manager, banks or insurance companies as fiduciaries and enter
into an agreement with such institutions, naming it a fiduciary and conveying
to such fiduciary all or a portion of the assets of the fund, so that said
fiduciary may handle, manage and hold those assets conveyed to it. All assets
conveyed to said fiduciary shall be subject to the provision of the agreement
or agreements between the trustees and the fiduciary.
   (I)   The trustees may employ legal counsel with whom they may seek advice,
consult with, require attendance at meetings and to otherwise represent the
trustees in matters relating to this chapter and fund.
   (J)   The trustees may authorize the purchase of insurance for the fund and
for the trustees to cover liability or losses occurring for any reason,
including but not limited to an act or omission (errors or omissions) of a
fiduciary, including the trustees; provided however, that such insurance policy
permits recourse by the insured against the fiduciary, including the trustee or
trustees involved, in case of breach of fiduciary obligation by the fiduciary.
   (K)   The trustees shall appoint an actuary who shall advise the trustees on
the actuarial operation of this chapter and fund. The trustees shall, from time
to time, adopt such mortality and other tables of experience along with a rate
or rates of regular interest as are necessary for the operation of the fund on
an actuarial basis.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.56 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The trustees shall meet at least quarterly. The trustees shall
determine the time for the regular meetings of the trustees and the place or
places where such meetings shall be held. The secretary of the trustees or his
or her designee shall be responsible for giving notice of the time and place of
such meetings to the other trustees.
   (B)   Notice and conduct of all meetings of the trustees, both regular and
special, shall be given in accordance with applicable law including the
Michigan Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure and shall keep a
record of its proceedings. Three trustees shall constitute a quorum at any
meeting of the Board. Each trustee shall be entitled to one vote on each
question before the Board and at least three concurring votes shall be
necessary for a decision of the Board.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.57 COMPENSATION.
   All trustees shall serve without compensation as members of the Board,
except that elected employee trustees shall suffer no loss in compensation on
account of their services as trustees. Trustees may also be reimbursed by the
fund for reasonable and necessary costs and expenses incurred by the trustees
in the performance of their duties as trustees and as related to the operation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.58 TRUSTEES' POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The trustees shall hold all powers that are necessary to carry out the
purposes of the fund and that are generally available to trustees under the
laws of the State of Michigan, except as limited by the fund and by federal law
and regulations. The trustees shall take no action nor make any determination
inconsistent with any qualification or ruling of the Internal Revenue Service,
an arbitrator or the courts with respect to the fund. In the case of amendments
to the Internal Revenue Code or changes to regulations of the Internal Revenue
Service or the Labor Department, the trustees are empowered to take all
necessary action authorized by this chapter, federal and state law and
regulations.
   (B)   In carrying out the purposes of the fund, the trustees shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   The trustees shall, in order to effectuate the purposes of the
fund, be bound by the terms of this chapter and any applicable collective
bargaining agreements between the city and the collective bargaining
associations and shall comply with all applicable laws.
      (2)   The trustees shall establish a uniform system for the timely
transmission of required reports and contributions from the city on behalf of
the participants to the fund.
      (3)   The trustees, in accordance with the requirements of law, may
direct an impartial firm of independent certified public accountants to act as
agent of the trustees, to examine the payroll records and reports as may be
necessary to determine the monies due on behalf of a participant covered by
this fund and to make a written report to the trustees, with an identical copy
to the city.
      (4)   The trustees shall maintain or cause to be maintained proper books
of accounts and records of and for the administration of the fund, including
the minutes of all meetings, make them available for inspection at the
permanent office of the fund during reasonable business hours by the city, by
any collective bargaining association or any participant covered by this
chapter and fund.
      (5)   The financial records of the fund shall be subject to the annual
audit of the city. The trustees shall fully comply with all applicable
statutory and municipal budgetary and accounting procedures and shall provide
access to and/or documentation of all assets and liabilities of the fund. The
trustees shall also provide a report of the operations of the fund for the
preceding year together with such other data as may be required by law and/or
as part of the city's annual financial report to the State Treasurer.
      (6)   The trustees shall be authorized, pursuant to Public Act 149 of
1999, as amended, to invest the assets of the fund in accordance with the
provisions of Public Act 314 of 1965, as amended.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.59 FUND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable for payment to the fund of any amount
other than those required of it by the fund and/or any applicable collective
bargaining agreement or PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies. Neither
the city nor any participant or trustee shall be liable for any debts,
liabilities or obligations of the fund except as provided for in this chapter.
Neither the city nor any participant shall have any right to the return of any
money properly paid into the fund, except as otherwise specifically provided in
this chapter, or to money improperly paid which has already been invested or
distributed. Any contribution improperly paid into the fund by the city or on
behalf of a participant shall be returned by the trustees upon the request of
the city, the participant or upon discovery by the trustees that such monies
have been improperly paid into the fund, unless those monies have already been
invested or distributed.
   (B)   No part of the fund or any benefits payable by the trustees shall be
subject to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or encumbrance by any
person. No participant shall be entitled to receive any part of the
contributions made by the city or payments required to be made by the fund, in
lieu of such benefits provided under this chapter as determined by the trustees
in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
§ 37.60 TERMINATION OF THE FUND.
   (A)   Subject to the limitations of this chapter, the parties hereby
contemplate that new employment benefit decisions may be made by the city and/
or new collective bargaining agreements or PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel
Policies may be entered into which continue or modify the provisions of the
fund. The fund shall continue during such period or time as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of any plan or collective bargaining agreement and
PACT Employee Benefits and Personnel Policies requiring payment to the fund and
the fact that such collective bargaining agreements or employment benefit
decisions are not extended shall not by itself terminate the fund. The fund
shall continue for a period of time sufficient to wind up the affairs of said
fund.
   (B)   Provided there are no longer any retirees eligible for benefits from
the fund, the fund may be terminated at any time by the trustees so long as the
termination is not inconsistent with any then existing resolution or collective
bargaining agreement. It shall not be necessary for the city or the collective
bargaining associations to execute such an agreement for the fund to terminate.
   (C)   If the fund shall terminate, the trustees shall forthwith notify any
insurance carrier or carriers then providing insurance to retirees in the fund.
   (D)   In the event of the termination of the fund, the remaining funds
available after providing for all the outstanding obligations shall be used in
a manner as will in the opinion of the trustees best effectuate the purposes of
the fund, including, but not limited to the purchase of insurance benefits.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-11-02)
CHAPTER 38: HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR CONDITIONS
Section
   
38.01   Recovery of costs
   
38.02   Hazardous substances defined
   
38.03   Parties responsible to reimburse city for costs
   
38.04   Reimbursable costs of city
   
38.05   Appeal of reimbursable costs by responsible party
   
38.06   Rights of responsible party to seek contribution and/or indemnity from
another party
§ 38.01 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   The city shall be entitled to recover the cost/expenditures incurred
by the city in responding to, recovering from, safeguarding, isolating, and/or
cleaning up of hazardous substances and dangerous or hazardous conditions.
   (B)   The city shall be entitled to recovery of the costs/expenditures
incurred by the city in responding to, recovering from, safeguarding,
isolating, and/or cleaning up technological/man-made emergencies and/or
disasters, including any condition regulated by
Chapter 93.
(Ord. 892, passed 7-28-03)
§ 38.02 HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES DEFINED.
   Hazardous substances shall include all substances as defined in M.C.L.A.
§324.20101(t).
(Ord. 892, passed 7-28-03)
§ 38.03 PARTIES RESPONSIBLE TO REIMBURSE CITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Any person, company, organization or entity that owns or controls a
hazardous substance within the city which is released shall reimburse the city
the costs incurred by the city in responding to, recovering from, safeguarding,
isolating, and/or cleaning up the hazardous substance.
   (B)   Any person, company, organization or entity that causes the release of
any hazardous substance or the creation of a situation resulting in the release
or possible release of a hazardous substance within the city shall reimburse
the city the cost incurred by the city in responding to, recovering from,
safeguarding, isolating, and/or cleaning up the hazardous substance.
   (C)   Any person, company, organization or entity that causes a
technological/man-made emergency or disaster within the city shall reimburse
the city of the costs incurred by the city in responding to, recovering from or
cleaning up said technological/man-made emergency and/or disaster.
   (D)   Any person, company, organization or entity that causes or contributes
to a dangerous or hazardous condition within the city shall reimburse the city
the costs incurred by the city in responding to, recovering from, safeguarding,
isolating, and/or cleaning up said dangerous or hazardous condition.
(Ord. 892, passed 7-28-03)
§ 38.04 REIMBURSABLE COSTS OF CITY.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall determine the costs/expenditures of the
city in responding to, recovering from, safeguarding, isolating, and/or
cleaning up a hazardous substance, dangerous or hazardous condition, or a
technological/man-made emergency or disaster. The total costs/expenditures
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Salaries of all employees, including overtime and benefits.
      (2)   All long distance, cellular and fax telephone calls within any
period.
      (3)   Replacement/repair of all equipment owned or leased by the city
which is deemed unserviceable due to exposure to the hazardous substance, or
dangerous or hazardous condition.
      (4)   Expenses of vehicle operation/use of emergency command trailer.
      (5)   On scene rehab of emergency personnel including, but not limited
to, beverage and food for long-term events.
      (6)   All other related expenses caused by the event.
   (B)   Once the costs/expenditures of the city have been determined by the
Finance Director, the Public Safety Director shall submit the bill to the
party/parties named by the Public Safety Director as being responsible pursuant
to §
38.03, above.
(Ord. 892, passed 7-28-03)
§ 38.05 APPEAL OF REIMBURSABLE COSTS BY RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   (A)   The responsible individual/company may request a detailed explanation
of costs/expenditures. If dissatisfied, the responsible party may request to
review the costs/expenditures with the city or its designated representative.
   (B)   If after review the responsible party is still dissatisfied, the party
may make a final appeal directly to the City Manager. The decision of the City
Manager shall be final.
(Ord. 892, passed 7-28-03)
§ 38.06 RIGHTS OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY TO SEEK CONTRIBUTION AND/OR INDEMNITY FROM
ANOTHER PARTY.
   Neither this chapter nor the determination by the Public Safety Director or
the City Manager shall increase or diminish the right of a party (who has
reimbursed the city pursuant to this chapter) to seek contribution and/or
indemnity from another party.
(Ord. 892, passed 7-28-03)
CHAPTER 39: HUMAN RIGHTS
Section
   
39.01   Purpose
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   Employment practices
   
39.04   Housing practices
   
39.05   Public accommodations
   
39.06   General prohibited practices
   
39.07   Exceptions
   
39.08   Investigation and enforcement procedure
   
39.09   Violators operating under license issued by the city
   
39.10   Severability
 
   
39.98   Private cause of action for damages or injunctive relief
   
39.99   Penalty
§ 39.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city intends that no individual be denied the equal protection of
the laws; nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of his or her civil
rights or be discriminated against because of his or her race, religion, color,
national origin, gender, sex, age, marital status, physical or mental
disability, family status, sexual orientation, or gender identity or
expression.
   (B)   The prohibitions against discrimination in this chapter are intended
to supplement federal and state civil rights law prohibiting discrimination in
the areas of employment, housing and public accommodations. However, this
chapter shall be construed and applied in a manner consistent with
jurisprudence regarding the freedom of speech and exercise of religion under
the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to require or shall be construed
to require preferential treatment of any individual or group identified in
division (A).
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 5-22-23)
§ 39.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. Chronological age.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. A police officer, code enforcement personnel or
any other personnel of the city designated and authorized by the City Manager,
this code or any ordinance to investigate or issue municipal civil infraction
citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City, or his or her designee.
   COMPLAINANT. An individual or other person who files a complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter.
   DISCRIMINATE, DISCRIMINATION. To make a decision, offer to make a decision
or refrain from making a decision based in whole or in part on the race,
religion, color, national origin, gender, sex, age, marital status, physical or
mental disability, family status, sexual orientation, or gender identity or
expression of an individual.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A public or private institution, or a separate
school or department thereof, including an academy, college, elementary or
secondary school, extension course, kindergarten, nursery, local school system,
or a business, nursing, professional, secretarial, technical, or vocational
school. For the purposes of this chapter, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION includes an
agent of the institution.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual who is hired for a wage, salary, fee, payment or
other remuneration to perform work for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. A person who has one or more employees, and includes an agent of
that person.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. A person regularly undertaking, with or without
compensation, to procure, refer, recruit, or place an individual in an
employment relationship with an employer.
   FAMILY STATUS. One or more individuals related by blood within three degrees
of consanguinity, marriage, adoption, in a foster care relationship or other
legal custody relationship. For the purposes of this definition, FAMILY STATUS
shall include an individual who is pregnant.
   GENDER. The actual biological state of being male or female as of birth, or
subsequent alteration through surgical procedure, and without regard to any
outward physical display or expression of gender identity.
   GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION. An individual’s appearance, expression,
identity or behavior as being either male or female, whether or not that
appearance, expression, identity or behavior is different from that which is
traditionally associated with the individual’s designated gender at birth.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any improved or unimproved real property or part
thereof, dwelling unit or facility used or intended, arranged, or designed to
be used or occupied as a home, domicile, or residence of one or more
individuals.
   INDIVIDUAL. A single human being.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization of any kind, an agency or employee
representation committee, group, association, or plan in which employees
participate in or are members of, which exists for the purpose, in whole or in
part, of dealing with employers concerning collective bargaining, grievances,
labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours, or other terms or conditions of
employment. For purposes of this definition, a LABOR ORGANIZATION need not be
subordinate to or affiliated with a national or international labor
organization.
   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, unmarried, divorced or widowed.
   PERSON. An individual, agent, association, corporation, labor organization,
legal representative, partnership, receiver, trust or any other legal or
commercial entity.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL DISABILITY. A determinate physical or mental
characteristic of an individual, which may result from disease, injury,
congenital condition of birth, or functional disorder, if the characteristic
substantially limits a major life activity of that individual and is unrelated
to the individual’s ability to perform the duties of a particular job or
position, is unrelated to the individual’s ability to utilize and benefit from
a place of public accommodation, or is unrelated to the individual’s ability to
acquire, rent, or maintain property. For the purposes of this definition,
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL DISABILITY does not include any condition caused by the
current illegal use of a controlled substance or the use of intoxicating
liquors by an individual.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, educational, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, health or transportation facility, organization or
institution of any kind, whether licensed or not, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An establishment that is not open to the public. A PRIVATE
CLUB is one whose members’ association with each other and the club is
sufficiently intimate, small and exclusive that it is not open to the public.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION OR INSTITUTION. A religious corporation, association,
educational institution or society, which is, in whole or substantial part,
owned, supported, controlled or managed by a particular religion whose purpose
or character is directed toward the propagation of that particular religion and
that has the inculcation of religious values or the provision of charity as its
purpose; primarily employs persons who share its religious tenets; and
primarily serves persons whoshare its religious tenets or, on a charitable
basis, the broader community. RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION OR INSTITUTION includes,
for illustration and not limitation: churches, mosques, synagogues and other
houses of worship; any subsidiary organizations; educational institutions
affiliated with, controlled, or managed by those houses of worship or with
articles of incorporation, bylaws and other documents stating an intention to
inculcate its religious tenets in students; and, faith-based organizations
that, due to a sense of duty based on particular religious tenets, provide
charitable services to the public.
   RESPONDENT. A person against whom a complaint is filed under this chapter.
   SEX. Includes, but is not limited to pregnancy, childbirth, or a medical
condition related to pregnancy or childbirth. Discrimination based on sex
includes sexual harassment. SEXUAL HARASSMENT means unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct or
communication of a sexual nature under the following conditions:
      (1)   Submission to the conduct or communication is made a term or
condition, either explicitly or implicitly, to obtain employment, housing, or
public accommodations.
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of the conduct or communication by an
individual is used as a factor in decisions affecting the individual’s
employment, housing, or public accommodations.
      (3)   The conduct or communication has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with an individual’s employment, public
accommodations or public services, or housing, or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive employment, housing, or public accommodations.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Male or female homosexuality, heterosexuality or
bisexuality, whether by orientation or practice. SEXUAL ORIENTATION does not
include any sexual activity or attempted activity otherwise prohibited by law.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 5-22-23)
§ 39.03 EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
39.07:
   (A)   An employer shall not discriminate in the employment, compensation,
work classifications, conditions or terms, promotion or demotion, or
termination of employment of any individual.
   (B)   A labor organization shall not exclude or expel from membership a
member or applicant for membership, or otherwise discriminate in a manner
prohibited by this chapter when dealing with employers concerning collective
bargaining, member grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours or
other terms or conditions of employment.
   (C)   An employment agency shall not discriminate in the procurement,
referral, recruitment, or placement of an individual in an employment
relationship with an employer.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12) Penalty, see §
39.99
§ 39.04 HOUSING PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
39.07:
   (A)   A person shall not discriminate in leasing, selling, or otherwise
making available any housing accommodation.
   (B)   A person shall not discriminate in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of a real estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or
services in connection with any housing accommodation.
   (C)   A person shall not discriminate in providing financing for the
purchase, repair, or remodeling of any housing accommodations.
   (D)   A person shall not discriminate in making referrals, listings or
otherwise providing information regarding housing accommodations.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12) Penalty, see §
39.99
§ 39.05 PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
39.07, a person shall not discriminate in making available full and equal
access to all goods, services, privileges, advantages, or accommodations of any
place of public accommodation.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12) Penalty, see §
39.99
§ 39.06 GENERAL PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
39.07:
   (A)   A person shall not adopt, enforce, or employ any policy or
requirement, publish, post, circulate or otherwise broadcast any advertisement,
sign, solicitation or notice which discriminates or suggests discrimination in
providing employment, housing or public accommodations.
   (B)   A person shall not coerce, threaten or retaliate against another for
making a complaint or assisting in any investigation regarding a violation or
alleged violation of this chapter. A person shall not require, request,
conspire with, coerce or otherwise assist a person to retaliate against a
person for making a complaint or assisting in an investigation.
   (C)   A person shall not conspire with, assist, coerce, or request another
to discriminate in any manner prohibited by this chapter.
   (D)   A person shall not adopt, enforce, or employ any policy, practice or
requirement which, while facially neutral, has the effect of discriminating in
a manner prohibited by this chapter, except when there is a bona fide business
necessity for such a policy, practice or requirement. For the purposes of this
chapter, BONA FIDE BUSINESS NECESSITY means that the policy, practice or
requirement is reasonably necessary to the normal operation of the person’s
business. A bona fide business necessity does not arise due to a mere
inconvenience or because of suspected or actual objection by neighbors,
customers, or other persons.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12) Penalty, see §
39.99
§ 39.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any other provision of this chapter notwithstanding:
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any religious
organization or institution with respect to its employment of individuals.
   (B)   A religious organization or institution may restrict the occupancy of
any of its housing facilities or place of public accommodations operated as a
part of its religious activities to persons of its denomination or those who
conform to the moral tenets of that religious organization or institution. This
exception shall apply to a religious organization or institution that allows
persons other than its members to use its facilities if its facilities remain
exempt from Michigan property taxation pursuant to section 7s of 1893 PA 206,
as amended, M.C.L.A. § 211.7s.
   (C)   The owner of a housing facility or accommodation devoted entirely to
the housing of individuals of one gender may restrict the occupancy of such a
facility or accommodation on the basis of gender.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the rental of a housing
accommodation in a building that contains housing accommodations for not more
than two families living independently of each other if the owner or a member
of the owner’s immediate family resides in one of the housing accommodations,
or to the rental of a room or rooms in a single family dwelling by a person if
the lessor or a member of the lessor’s immediate family resides in the
dwelling. This exception shall extend to advertisements, postings, notices or
other solicitations for such a rental arrangement.
   (E)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any arrangement for
shared ownership, lease or residency of a dwelling unit.
   (F)   An educational institution may limit the use of its facilities to
those affiliated with such institution.
   (G)   A governmental institution may restrict any of its facilities or
restrict employment opportunities based on duly-adopted institutional policies
that conform to state and federal laws and regulations.
   (H)   A person may discriminate based on an individual’s age when such
discrimination is required by other local, state or federal laws.
   (I)   A person may provide discounts on products or services to students, or
on the basis of age.
   (J)   A person may refuse to enter into a contractual relationship with an
unemancipated minor.
   (K)   A person may restrict the use of restrooms, lavatories, locker room
facilities or changing rooms on the basis of gender. Restrictions for the use
of restrooms, lavatories, locker room facilities or changing rooms as provided
in this section shall not be considered a violation of this chapter’s
prohibitions on discrimination based on gender identity or expression.
   (L)   A person may restrict participation in an instructional program,
athletic event or on an athletic team on the basis of age or gender.
   (M)   A person may restrict membership in a private club that is not open to
the public.
   (N)   An employer may restrict employment opportunities to members of one’s
family.
   (O)   An employer offering health or pension plans may provide for marital
or family status limitations in such plans provided those limitations conform
to state and federal laws, rules and regulations. Further, nothing in this
chapter shall be construed or interpreted to either require, nor prohibit a
private employer from offering employment benefits to the same-sex partner of
an employee.
   (P)   This chapter shall not prohibit the city from allowing use of its
facilities or services by persons that may be affiliated with, or otherwise
supported by a religious organization or institution, which may espouse
policies or practices inconsistent with the general intent of this chapter.
Further, this chapter shall not prohibit the city from allowing use of its
facilities or services by persons not generally affiliated with or supported by
a particular religious organization or institution, but who may espouse
policies or practices inconsistent with the general intent of this chapter.
   (Q)   This chapter shall not be construed to prohibit a city employee from
exercising his or her First Amendment rights to donate to a charitable
organization of his or her choosing through the use of the city’s automatic
payroll deduction program. This chapter shall not be construed to limit the
availability of the city’s automatic payroll deduction program only to
charitable organizations that support or conform to the general intent and
purposes of this chapter. Except as otherwise provided by law, the city retains
the discretion to determine whether or not to participate in or allow any
payroll deduction.
   (R)   This chapter is not intended to and shall not be construed to require
an educational institution to, and an educational institution shall not use
this chapter as a justification to, suspend, expel or otherwise discipline a
student enrolled in a medical, pharmaceutical, nursing, counseling, social
work, or psychology program because the student refuses to counsel or serve a
client or patient in a manner that conflicts with a sincerely held religious
belief of the student. However, this provision is not intended to alter or
affect any professional ethics or academic standards or codes of conduct.
   (S)   This chapter is not intended to and shall not be construed to require
an employer to, and an employer shall not use this chapter as a justification
to, take any employment, promotion, compensation, benefits, termination or
extension of employment action against, or alter the employment privileges of a
professional employee, because that professional employee refuses to provide
medical, social work, psychological or other professional counseling services
when that counseling would reasonably conflict with that employee’s sincerely
held religious beliefs. However, this provision is not intended to alter or
affect any professional ethics standards or codes of conduct.
   (T)   This chapter is not intended to prohibit or interfere with a person's,
or religious institution's, free exercise of religion as protected by the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution and Article 1, Section 4, of the
Michigan Constitution.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 5-22-23)
§ 39.08 INVESTIGATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person claiming to be discriminated against in a manner prohibited
by this chapter, and not otherwise prohibited by state or federal law, may,
within 180 days of the alleged violation, file a signed, written complaint with
the City Manager, specifying, in detail, the names, dates, known witnesses and
other pertinent facts relevant to the alleged violation. For any complaint
alleging a violation of state or federal law, the City Manager shall refer the
complainant to the appropriate state or federal agency responsible for
investigation and enforcement of such alleged violations.
   (B)   After receiving a complaint, the City Manager shall review the
complaint and may, in his or her reasonable discretion, do any of the
following:
      (1)   Undertake, or refer to city staff or the City Attorney to undertake
an investigation of the alleged violation.
      (2)   Refer the matter to an authorized city official or the City
Attorney to issue a municipal civil infraction citation and prosecute the
violation as a municipal civil infraction.
      (3)   Refer the matter to the Isabella County Trial Court Alternative
Program for Dispute Resolution, or other organization for conciliation or
facilitative mediation services. A complainant or respondent failing to appear
for a scheduled conciliation or mediation shall pay any costs resulting from
such failure to appear. If a conciliation or mediation agreement is entered
into under this section, the parties shall be bound to its terms. A breach of
such an agreement by the respondent shall be considered a violation of this
chapter.
      (4)   Notify the complainant that no city action will be taken related to
the complaint. Such a determination shall not be evidence of non-violation
should the complainant choose to initiate a private civil action against the
alleged violator as provided in this section.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit a person’s right
to initiate a private civil action for an alleged violation as provided in §
39.09 of this chapter.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12)
§ 39.09 VIOLATORS OPERATING UNDER LICENSE ISSUED BY CITY.
   The City Manager may suspend the license of any person operating under a
license issued by the city, or any agency thereof, found to be in violation of
this chapter and provide opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance with
the provisions of the City Code under which that person is licensed to
determine whether such license should be revoked. The provisions of this
section are not applicable to violations which are remedied through either
conciliation or mediation services. However, a violation of a conciliation or
mediation agreement shall be grounds for the revocation of a license as
provided under this section.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12)
§ 39.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, that portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12)
§ 39.98 PRIVATE CAUSE OF ACTION FOR DAMAGES OR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   A person alleging a violation of this chapter may bring a civil action
within 180 days of the alleged violation, or 180 days after the end of an
actions taken by the city under §
39.08, whichever is later, for appropriate injunctive relief or damages, or
both, in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12)
§ 39.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If a violation of this chapter is prosecuted as a municipal civil
infraction under the §§
36.01 et seq., fines of up to $2,500 may be assessed. In addition to the
penalties provided in this section, a court shall have equitable jurisdiction
to enforce any judgment, writ, or order necessary to enforce any provision of
this chapter, including, but not limited to, abatement of the violating
condition or the granting of injunctive relief.
   (B)   A court rendering judgment in a private civil action brought pursuant
to §
39.09 of this chapter may order any remedy authorized by Article 8 the Elliott-
Larsen Civil Rights Act, 1976 PA 453, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 37.2101 et seq.
   (C)   Each day upon which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate and
new violation.
(Ord. 973, passed 7-9-12)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SOLID WASTES
   
51.   SEWERS
      
APPENDIX: TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS
   
52.   WATER
   
53.   RESERVED
   
54.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTES
Section
   
50.01 Definitions
   
50.02 Accumulation of solid waste
   
50.03 Unauthorized dumping and littering
   
50.04 Prohibited wastes
   
50.05 Anti-scavenging provisions
   
50.06 Refuse and recycling pre-collection requirements
   
50.07 Reserved
   
50.08 Reserved
   
50.09 Commercial refuse container specifications
   
50.10 Authority, costs, notice to remove solid waste
   
50.11 Separation of recyclable materials
   
50.12 Material collection licenses
   
50.13 Rules and regulations
   
50.14 Enforcement
 
   
50.99 Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Utilities, see Charter
Art. XII
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure used in whole or in part for human habitation,
manufacturing, sales, and other
purposes.
   CITY MANAGER. The Manager of the City of Mount Pleasant.
   COLLECTION CART. A specified container provided by the franchised hauler as
a container for residential refuse.
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE. Solid waste collected in commercial refuse collection.
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE COLLECTION. Refuse pickup from all commercial, business,
institutional and multi-unit residential establishments which regularly
generate in excess of one cubic yard of solid waste per week.
   COMMISSION. The Mount Pleasant City Commission.
   COMPOST. An accumulation of lawn debris, yard waste, coffee grounds, tea
leaves, raw vegetables or fruit scraps, in a form suitable for composting.
   CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION. Representative group of property owners who have
legal authority to manage the assets of a condominium development.
   CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. Those legal real estate ownership arrangements as
defined by
Michigan statute, the Condominium Act 59 of 1978 as amended, M.C.L.A. §
559.101.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Refuse which is incidental to
construction,
renovation or demolition of buildings, other structures or appurtenances on a
premise.
   CONTAINERS OR RECEPTACLES - COMMERCIAL. Durable, water-tight containers or
dumpsters with tight-fitting covers meeting National Solid Waste Management
Association, American National Standards Institute, and Consumer Products
Safety Commission requirements as applicable to design, application and safety.
   CONTAINERS OR RECEPTACLES - RECYCLING. Sturdy, lightweight and identifiable
containers for the storage and placement of recyclable materials at curbside.
   CURBSIDE RECYCLABLES COLLECTION. The collection of recyclable materials at
the point of generation by a franchised hauler on a regularly scheduled basis.
   FERROUS METAL CONTAINER. Those non-aluminum food containers which are
commonly referred to as tin cans.
   FRANCHISE HAULER. Service provider selected by the city to perform
collections services that are structured to support the city's solid waste
chapter as required to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   GENERATOR. A person, business, or commercial establishment generating solid
waste.
   GLASS CONTAINER. All containers made from silica or sand, soda ash and
limestone, the product being transparent or translucent and being used for
packaging or bottling of various matter and all other material commonly known
as glass, excluding,
however, blue glass, flat glass, plate glass and glass commonly known as window
glass, and other types as designated by the Material Recovery Facility Board
(MRF).
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Hazardous waste as defined in Public Act 64 of 1979, being
M.C.L.A. § 324.11103, as amended, and as identified in administrative rules and
promulgated pursuant to said Act by the Director of the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources.
   LEAVES. Deciduous and coniferous seasonal deposition.
   LICENSED COLLECTOR. A collection agent who has received a material
collection license from the city.
   MATERIAL COLLECTION LICENSE. A license issued by the city to a collection
agent for the purpose of providing a specified type of refuse, yard waste and/
or recyclable material collection service.
   MRF. The material recovery facility as operated by the County of Isabella
and the City of Mount Pleasant.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. The same as multi-family dwelling as defined by §
152.004 of the Mount Pleasant City Code, except as modified herein with regard
to the number of dwelling units and the collection of solid waste.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SITE OF GENERATION. Any site of generation other than a
residential site of
generation of four units or more.
   PERSON. The owner, proprietor, occupant, or agent in charge of any premise.
   PLASTIC CONTAINER. Any container made of one type or combination of types of
plastics, for example, high-density polyethylene HDPE which is accepted for
recycling by the MRF. The list of acceptable plastics is subject to review and
change by the MRF Board.
   PREMISES. A parcel of land within the city including the adjoining street
right-of-way or legal easement, separated from adjacent parcels of land by
legal description.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL. Materials such as clean and uncontaminated newspaper,
corrugated cardboard, magazines, computer paper, office paper, glass
containers, plastic containers, ferrous metal containers, ferrous metal, and
aluminum containers or articles separated for the purpose of preparation for
and delivery to a secondary market or other use. A list of acceptable
recyclables shall be kept on file at all times at the Division of Public Works
office. This list may change subject to approval of the material recycling
board.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A facility designed and operated to recover or process
recyclable materials for the purpose of conversion into raw materials or new
products. This term does not include sanitary landfills, solid waste transfer
facilities, and municipal solid waste incinerators provided, however, a
recycling facility may be located on the same site as a landfill, transfer
facility, or incinerator.
   REFUSE. The same meaning as solid waste.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. Solid waste collected in residential refuse collection.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE COLLECTION. Refuse pickup from residential buildings.
   RESIDENTIAL SITE OF GENERATION. Any site of generation containing three
residential dwelling units or less.
   ROOMING HOUSE REFUSE. Solid waste collection in residential rooming house
refuse collection.
   ROOMING HOUSE REFUSE COLLECTION. Refuse pickup from rooming houses that have
been defined in accordance with the city Housing Licensing Code ordinance
number 592 (See Chapter 152).
   SITE OF GENERATION. Any premises in or from which solid waste is generated
by any person.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 1056, passed
7-27-20; Am. Ord. 1096, passed 7-8-24)
§ 50.02 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall accumulate or maintain, or allow the accumulation or
maintenance, of refuse upon a residential or commercial premise for more than
six days.
   (B)   Leaves, yard waste and vegetable waste may be stored for composting
purposes in a manner which will not harbor rodents or become a public nuisance.
      (1)   Compost piles shall be located only in a rear or side yard, a
minimum of three feet from any lot line and 20 feet from any residence located
on adjacent property.
      (2)   No single compost pile and compost bin shall exceed five feet in
height and 125 cubic feet in volume. On lots smaller than 8,000 square feet,
the total volume of compost shall not exceed 125 cubic feet.
      (3)   Compost may contain only lawn debris, yard waste, coffee grounds,
tea leaves, raw vegetables or fruit scraps in a form suitable for composting.
Compost shall not contain meat, poultry, fish, dairy products, manure, oils,
fats, or any of the permitted items in a form unsuitable for composting.
      (4)   Compost piles and compost bins shall be constructed and maintained
to prevent the attraction and harborage of rodents and pests and to prevent
unpleasant odors.
      (5)   Compost piles and compost bins which constitute a nuisance may be
abated in accordance with an applicable nuisance abatement procedure set forth
in the city code.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 1063, passed
11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1096, passed 7-8-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING AND LITTERING.
   No person's refuse or trash shall be placed or left upon or in any street,
right-of-way, alley, container or other property on any premise, public or
private, without the permission of the owner, proprietor, occupant, or agent in
charge of that premise.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall place in any container or receptacle any material that
might endanger the collection personnel or which would be detrimental to the
normal operation of collection or incineration, for example: hazardous
household chemicals or waste, medical waste including sharps (needles),
gaseous, solid, or liquid poisons, dead animals, ammunition, explosives,
concrete, dirt, appliances, furniture, auto or equipment parts, or any material
that possesses heat sufficient to ignite any other collected materials.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted to place leaves or yard waste in a refuse
container for the purposes of refuse collection, removal or disposal.
   (C)   No person shall be permitted to place recyclables as defined in §
50.01, in a refuse container for the purpose of refuse collection, removal or
disposal.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 ANTI-SCAVENGING PROVISIONS.
   No person shall take, collect, or transport any refuse, leaves, yard waste
or recyclable material from any street right-of-way, alley or refuse dumpster
of this city without a material collection license authorizing such activity.
However, this section shall not apply to authorized city officials, including
police officers, acting within the scope of their official duties, or residents
when participating in a city authorized reuse program.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 REFUSE PRE-COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Single-family residential sites of generation. All single-family
residential sites of generation must use the city's designated franchise
hauler.
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings consisting of three or less dwelling units
located in the same building must use the city's designated franchise hauler.
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings consisting of more than three dwelling units
shall be responsible for securing service from a licensed hauler of residential
refuse and recycling. All dwelling units located in the same building, rooming
house, or condominium development must use the same method for residential
collection.
      (4)   Other requirements applicable to all residential waste.
         (a)   There must be adequate open space in the public right-of-way or
adjacent to a private street for collection to accommodate the number of refuse
containers by all residents of the dwelling unit without interfering with
driveways, vehicular traffic, pedestrian traffic, or business traffic. The DPW
shall have authority to make determinations regarding the adequacy of the open
space and to designate the collection area.
         (b)   Contents of collection carts placed for collection shall not
exceed what can be reasonably placed within the cart and still allow the lid of
the cart to be placed in a completely closed position. The contents shall not
overflow the top of the cart.
         (c)   The property owner and tenant shall be responsible for ensuring
that all collection carts are placed at the designated collection area no
earlier than 5:00 p.m. the night before collection and that collection carts
are removed from the designated collection area and front yard by midnight the
day of collection. Collection carts shall only be stored in garages, backyards
or side yards and out of sight from the street.
         (d)    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, if a dumpster is
required for any dwelling unit for site plan approval, special use approval,
other zoning approval, or by the zoning ordinance, then refuse collection shall
be required pursuant to the approval provided and shall not be changed except
by amendment pursuant to the site plan, special use, or other zoning approval.
         (e)   Special refuse, yard waste, hazardous waste, construction and
demolition debris, and other prohibited waste as set forth in §
50.04 shall not be placed out for residential refuse collection.
   (B)   Commercial establishments. Commercial establishments shall be
responsible for securing an approved method of refuse and recycling collection
and disposal. Approved methods shall be limited to arrangements with licensed
haulers.
   (C)   Other refuse. All special refuse, yard waste, hazardous waste,
construction and demolition debris, and other prohibited waste as set forth in
§
50.04 shall be removed using a licensed contractor or otherwise disposed of in
accordance with applicable state law and regulations.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 800, passed 6-23-97; Am. Ord. 809, passed
11-24-97; Am. Ord. 870, passed 3-11-02; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord.
1001, passed 8-10-15; Am. Ord. 1056, passed 7-27-20; Am. Ord. 1096, passed 7-8-
24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 RESERVED.
§ 50.08 RESERVED.
§ 50.09 COMMERCIAL REFUSE AND RECYCLING CONTAINER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All container units used for commercial refuse collection shall be
kept clean and in good repair.
   (B)   The property owner of each commercial establishment is responsible for
maintaining sanitary conditions in and around the container.
   (C)   The lid and side doors of all commercial collection containers shall
be kept closed. No material shall be placed beside or on top of a container.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 9
§ 50.10 AUTHORITY, COSTS, NOTICE TO REMOVE SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The City Manager or designee is authorized to notify, in writing, the
owner and/or tenant(s) of any premises to remove solid waste found to be in
violation of §
50.02. Such notice shall be by hand delivery or certified mail, addressed to
said owner and/or tenant(s). If the owner and/or tenant(s) cannot be located,
or if the notice is returned as undeliverable, the notice shall be posted upon
the premises addressed to the last known owner.
   (B)   If solid wastes are not removed from the premises within six days
after the date of mailing or posting of such notice, or if the solid waste is
located within an abutting public right-of-way, the owner and/or tenant(s) of
the premises shall be subject to penalties as set forth in §
50.99. The City Manager or designee is authorized to pay for the removal of the
solid waste or to order the removal by the city or its designated agent.
   (C)   When the city has effected the removal of such solid waste or has paid
for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at a rate of 1%
per month from the date of removal shall be charged to the owner of the
premises. If payment is not received, the cost plus accrued interest will be
added to the next regular tax bill forwarded to such owner by the city, and
said charge shall be due and payable at the time of payment of such tax bill.
   (D)   Where cost of removal is not paid by an owner within 60 days after the
removal of such solid waste as set forth in divisions (B) and (C) of this
section, then the City Manager or designee shall cause to be recorded in the
Treasurer’s Office the date and premises on which removal was done. The
recording of such statement shall constitute a lien on the property and shall
remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest
until final payment has been made and shall be collected in the manner provided
by law for collection of taxes; further, the total amount shall be subject to a
delinquent penalty of 1% per month in the event same is not paid in full on or
before the date of the tax bill upon which said charge appears becomes
delinquent; said sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions
hereof shall be notice to every person concerned that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the premises described
in the statement that the same is due.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 947, passed
4-13-09)
§ 50.11 SOURCE SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Separation of recyclables and placement or removal from residential
sites of generation.
         (a)   All persons living in residential sites of generation shall
separate recyclables from all other solid waste produced by such household.
Such recyclable material shall be placed commingled in a
designated storage container and placed at curbside for collection on the same
day as the other solid waste is collected.
         (b)   Violations of this section shall result in penalties being
assessed as provided in § 50.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   Preparation of recyclable materials. Glass, plastic and metal
recyclables shall be clean, and all contents shall be removed therefrom, prior
to placement at curbside for collection. Non-metal caps shall be removed from
glass recyclables and all caps shall be removed from plastic recyclables prior
to placement for collection. Ferrous metal containers and plastic containers
shall be flattened prior to placement for collection..
   (B)   Exceptions and variances. In cases of extreme hardship, or practical
difficulties, the City Manager or designee may, upon receipt of a written
request, authorize variances to this chapter's requirements regarding
separation, points of collection and collection frequency.
   (C)   Responsibilities of collectors.
      (1)   The franchised hauler shall make available to all residential sites
of generation within the city the service of collecting recyclable materials
which are separated from solid waste prior to collection.
      (2)   Any licensed collector shall make available to all customers owning
or operating a nonresidential site of generation within the city the service of
collecting recyclable material after separation from the solid waste by the
customer. Upon collection of any source separated recyclable material from a
nonresidential site of generation, the licensed collector shall deliver the
recyclable material to the MRF or another facility designed and operated to
process the material into raw materials or new products, provided that the
facility is consistent with the Isabella County Act 641 Plan.
      (3)   Any licensed collector shall not collect any solid waste from a
residential site of generation unless all recyclable materials and yard waste
have been separated from the solid waste prior to collection.
      (4)   If a vehicle of a licensed collector is used to collect or
transport solid waste and either recyclable materials, or yard waste, or both,
from any site of generation (residential or nonresidential), the waste hauler
shall transport the solid waste, recyclable materials, and yard waste each in
separate compartments of the vehicle for delivery and disposal.
      (5)   A licensed collector shall deliver all source-separated recyclable
materials collected from a site of generation within the city to the MRF. No
waste hauler shall deliver source-separated recyclable materials collected from
a site of generation within the city, to any disposal site other than the MRF
or a recycling facility designated by the city.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 1096, passed
7-8-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 MATERIAL COLLECTION LICENSES.
   No person or organization shall engage in the business of collecting or
disposing of refuse, leaves, yard waste, or recyclable material without first
obtaining a material collection license in the manner outlined in this section.
The city expressly reserves the right to restrict the collection of residential
refuse and recycling materials to a city designated contractor.
   (A)   No material collection license shall be issued except upon application
to the City Clerk. At a minimum, the application must include the following
information:
      (1)   A description of the methods and equipment which the applicant
proposes to use for collecting refuse, leaves, yard waste and/or recyclable
material in the city.
      (2)   A description of the type of collection to be provided and the part
of the city which it will affect.
      (3)   A plan for meeting the pre-collection requirements outlined in §
50.06.
      (4)   Proof of liability insurance as required by city policy.
      (5)   A plan for meeting all collection and disposal requirements
outlined in other relevant city, county, state and federal regulations as
appropriate.
      (6)   The name and address of the city-designated site or sites to be
used to dispose of each material collected.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall submit all such applications to the Director of
Public Works who may approve the applications of such persons or organizations
as deemed to be in the best interests of the city and its inhabitants.
   (C)   The Commission may establish by resolution a license fee to be paid by
the applicant upon receipt of the material collection license.
   (D)   Whenever an application made hereunder has been approved by the
Director of Public Works, the City Clerk shall, upon payment of any established
fee by the applicant, issue a material collection license.
   (E)   Unless revoked under circumstances hereinafter provided, every
material collection license shall expire on the next succeeding January 1
following its issuance.
   (F)   The city may restrict the number of material collection licenses
issued and the scope of service of such licenses based on the geographic area
to be serviced; the population sector to be served such as residential,
commercial, or rooming house; the type of material to be collected; the points
of collection such as the curb, alley, or other location; and/or the schedule
of such collections. A license may only be used for the scope of services
expressly stated in the material collection license.
   (G)   No licensed collector shall dispose of refuse, leaves, yard waste and/
or recyclable material at sites other than those specified in the terms of the
collectors material collection license.
   (H)   In residential zones and on commercially zoned property that directly
abuts residential zones that have dwelling units, no collection of refuse or
recycling shall occur before 7:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.
      (1)   The City Commission may approve a policy that allows for exceptions
to the 7:00 a.m. start time under extenuating circumstances.
      (2)   The City Commission may establish by resolution an application fee
to be paid by the applicant requesting an exception to the 7:00 a.m. start
time.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 1021, passed
1-23-17; Am. Ord. 1033, passed 1-22-18; Am. Ord. 1096, passed 7-8-24) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04)
§ 50.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a review finds recyclable materials commingled with other waste,
the franchised collector may refuse to collect such other solid waste.
Occupants are required to remove such uncollected solid waste from curbside not
later than 6:00 p.m. on the day of collection.
   (B)   Solid waste which contains unseparated leaf and yard waste will not be
collected by the franchise hauler. Uncollected solid waste must be removed from
curbside not later than 6:00 pm. on the day of collection.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 1096, passed
7-8-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be held responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
prosecuted in accordance with the municipal civil infraction ordinance.
   (B)   The fine for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be $50;
the second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent violation within
one calendar year, $250.
   (C)   Fines for repeat offenders as defined in §
50.02(A)(2) shall be $250 per day for each day of noncompliance.
   (D)   In addition to imposing a fine for a violation of the provisions of
this chapter, a court may order compliance with the provisions of the City
Code.
   (E)   The city may revoke a material collection license issued under this
chapter, when either the licensee or a person operating a vehicle or equipment
on behalf of the licensee is responsible for three separate incidents
(occurring on three separate days) within a 12-month period resulting in a plea
of responsibility (with or without explanation), a plea of guilty, a plea of no
contest, or a court's determination of responsibility or guilt for a violation
of one or more of the following:
      (1)   A violation of City Code §
50.12(H).
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (3)   A violation of any other city, county or state regulation
concerning material collection activities.
      (4)   A violation of any term of the material collection license.
(Ord. 745, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 770, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 803, passed 7-
28-97; Am. Ord. 905, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 1001, passed 8-10-15; Am. Ord.
1021, passed 1-23-17; Am. Ord. 1033, passed 1-22-18; Am. Ord. 1063, passed 11-
23-20)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Title
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
   
51.004   Operation, maintenance and control of system
   
51.005   Conditions of service
   
51.006   Deposit of objectionable waste prohibited
   
51.007   Discharge of untreated sewage into natural outlet
   
51.008   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
51.009   Responsibility of owner to install suitable toilet facilities
   
51.010   Damaging or tampering with city equipment
   
51.011   Requirements for connection of private sanitary sewer
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
51.025   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system;
compliance
   
51.026   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
   
51.027   Connecting to public sewer; abandonment of private system
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.040   Separate building sewer for each building
   
51.041   Installation costs to be borne by owner
   
51.042   Building sewer specifications
   
51.043   Inspector to be notified when work ready for inspection
   
51.044   Permit required for connection; fee
   
51.045   Connection regulations
Sewer Use Regulations
   
51.060   Mandatory connection requirement
   
51.061   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
51.062   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
51.063   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.064   Right of review by city; pretreatment may be required
   
51.065   Special alternative limits
   
51.066   Monitoring
Pretreatment Provisions
   
51.080   Compliance with state and federal pretreatment regulations
   
51.081   Dilution prohibited
   
51.082   Accidental discharges; notice requirements
   
51.083   Funding of pretreatment program
   
51.084   Wastewater discharges and contribution permits
   
51.085   Reporting requirements
   
51.086   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
51.087   Public records
   
51.088   Enforcement provisions
   
51.089   By-pass
   
51.090   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
Rates and Charges
   
51.100   Charges established
   
51.101   Table of unit factors
   
51.102   Deferring charges
   
51.103   Billing procedures
   
51.104   Enforcement of charges
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.125   Responsibility of Director of Public Works
   
51.126   Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals
   
51.127   Right of entry of inspectors
   
51.128   Suspension of service
   
51.129   Fiscal year, records and funds
   
51.130   Violations; civil procedures
 
   
51.997   Civil penalties
   
51.998   Criminal penalties, imprisonment
   
51.999   Supplemental enforcement action
   
Appendix: Table of Unit Factors
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Utilities, see Charter
Art. XII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Mount Pleasant Municipal Sewer
Use Ordinance.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Pub. L. 92-500,
also known as the Clean Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq. as amended.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Michigan Department of Environment,
Great Lakes, and Energy or its successor state department.
   ATTORNEY. The City Attorney of the City of Mount Pleasant, Isabella County,
Michigan.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A public sanitary sewer system
located in a right-of-way, easement, highway, or public way which crosses,
adjoins, abuts, or is contiguous to the realty involved and passes not more
than 200 feet at the nearest point from a structure in which sanitary sewage
originates.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
51.062 (A) through (P) and 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b). BMPs include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials
storage.
   B.O.D. (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biological oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BYPASS. The diversion of the waste stream from any or all treatment
processes; whether intentional or otherwise.
   CAPACITY CHARGE. In addition to any other assessments, costs or levies
hereunder, a charge for capacity utilization and/or reservation shall be levied
for all connections to the sewer system; further and existing connections,
where the use is increased, shall be charged a capacity charge based on the
increased units.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307(b) and
(c) of the Act (33 USC 1347) which applies to a specific category of industrial
users.
   CITY. The City of Mount Pleasant which has jurisdiction over the use and
operation of the sewage treatment plant and sewage collection system.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of sanitary sewer customers into classes by
similar process or discharge flow characteristics, as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC USER. Individual homes or dwelling units (including mobile
homes, apartments, condominiums, or multi-family dwellings), or other
structures, that discharge only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user that is not considered a domestic user as
defined above.
      (3)   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user that:
         (a)   Is subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards.
         (b)   Has an average daily discharge of more than 25,000 gallons of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling, and
boiler blowdown wastewater).
         (c)   Provides more than 5% of the POTW organic or hydraulic dry
weather loading.
         (d)   Is designated as such by the Superintendent on the basis that it
has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation, or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus any additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact can remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE generally means removals in the order of 80% or greater.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge allocated to all users for the purpose of
generating revenues for retirement of outstanding bond issues, collectible via
property taxes and the sewer service surcharge.
   DOMESTIC WASTES. Normal wastes from residential living units resulting from
day-to-day activities such as but not limited to dishwater, laundry water, bath
water, sink water, shower water, and toilet water.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant, as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into a POTW
from a non-domestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the
Act.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the system from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the system through such sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs and swampy areas and storm drain cross
connections.
   INSPECTOR. Any person or persons authorized by the city to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, causes inhibition or disruption of the POTW
treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage
sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of the Act,
(33 USC 1345) or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTION DISCHARGER. A discharger having a flow volume of 10,000
gallons or more per average work day or containing any of the prohibited
discharges in §
51.062 of this chapter.
   MANAGER. The Manager of the City of Mount Pleasant, or his or her authorized
agent or representative.
   MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE HEADWORKS LOADING (MAHL). The maximum loading of a
pollutant that can be received at a POTW's headworks without causing pass-
through or interference.
   MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE INDUSTRIAL LOADING (MAIL). The maximum loading of a
pollutant that can be received at a POTW's headworks from all permitted
industrial users and other controlled sources without causing pass-through or
interference.
   MAY. Permissive, (see SHALL.)
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. 
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of division (1) (b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined under this division (3) has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            A.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            B.    Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this division (3).
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. A sanitary wastewater flow containing an average
daily of not more than 300 mg/l or an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 350 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT. The permit issued pursuant to the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System for the discharge of wastewaters into the waters of the
state.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE and REPLACEMENT COSTS. All costs, direct and
indirect, (other than debt service) necessary to ensure adequate wastewater
treatment on a continuing basis, conform with all related federal, state and
local requirements, and assure optimal long term facility management (these O &
M and R COSTS include replacement costs).
   OPERATIONAL UPSET. An unintentional and temporary discharge from a
pretreatment facility in noncompliance with standards of a wastewater
contribution permit and beyond the reasonable control of the discharger.
OPERATIONAL UPSET does not include noncompliance due to operational error,
improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack
of preventative maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into Waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation.
   PFAS. Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). A treatment works, as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1292). This definition includes any devices
or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any
conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. Any septic tanks, lagoons, cesspools, or
other facilities intended or used for the disposal of sanitary sewage other
than via the public sanitary sewer.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge
of certain substances; these prohibitions appear in §
51.062(A) through (P).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half-inch in dimension.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person or persons having legal title to the premises
according to the city's tax records and shall include in the case of a land
contract sale the land contract vendee or vendees, provided that the city has
been furnished with a copy of said land contract or assignment thereof.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The main collector sewer system in which all owners of
abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Necessary expenditures made during the service life of the
treatment works to replace equipment and plant appurtenances required to
maintain the intended performance of the treatment works.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENTS or EQUIVALENT UNIT. The factor representing a ratio
of the estimated sewage generated by each user class to that generated by the
normal single-family residential user.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments,
(including polluted cooling water) together with such ground, surface, and
storm waters as may be present. The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the water resource
recovery facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from a
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY. Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SERVICE SURCHARGE. The charge collected from all non-taxable customers
for the purpose of generating that portion of debt retirement of outstanding
bond issues.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SHALL. Mandatory, (see MAY).
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A residence in which only one family resides.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hours concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SPECIAL ALTERNATIVE LIMITS (SAL). User-specific maximum limits for specific
pollutants that may exceed the local limits specified in §
51.062. SALs are developed in accordance with the POTW's IPP procedures and §
51.065 of this chapter.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A storm sewer which carries storm and surface
water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charge which a user discharging wastewater having
strength in excess of the limits set by the city for transmission and treatment
within the sanitary sewage system will be required to pay to meet the cost of
treating such excessively strong wastewater.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM. The complete city wastewater collection and treatment system,
including all sewers, pumps, lift stations, treatment facilities or other
facilities and appurtenances used or useful in the collection, transportation,
treatment and disposal of domestic, commercial or industrial wastes, and all
easements, rights and land for same and including all extension and
improvements thereto which may hereafter be acquired or constructed.
   TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS. That table which shall be adopted by the city and
utilized to identify the various classifications of sewer users and stating as
residential equivalents the ratio of such use of the system to that of a
single-family residence.
   TREATMENT WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage, as defined above.
   USER O & M & R CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the treatment works
for the cost of the operation and maintenance including replacement, of such
treatment works.
   WASTEWATER. Water which contains, or previous to treatment has contained,
pollutants such as sewage and/or industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §
51.084 of this chapter.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed
9-27-21)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the following meanings:
BOD   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CFR   Code of Federal Regulations
COD   Chemical Oxygen Demand
EGLE  Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (formerly
      MDEQ)
EPA   Environmental Protection Agency
gpd   Gallons per day
L     Liter
LEL   Lower Explosive Limit
MAHL  Maximum Allowable Headworks Loading
MAIL  Maximum Allowable Industrial Loading
mg    Milligrams
mg/l  Milligrams Per Liter
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW  Publicly Owned Treatment Works, e.g., treatment plant as defined herein
RCRA  Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SAL   Special Alternative Limits
SIC   Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA  Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
TSS   Total Suspended Solids
USC   United States Code
WRRF  Water Resource Recovery Facility
 
(Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.004 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL OF SYSTEM.
   The operation and maintenance of the system shall be under the supervision
and control of the city. The city retains the exclusive right to establish,
maintain, and collect rates and charges for sewage collection, treatment,
transmission and debt service, and in such capacity the Commission may employ
such person or persons in such capacity or capacities as it deems advisable,
and may make such rules or regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to
assure the efficient establishment, operation and maintenance of the system to
comply with the terms of the NPDES permit and to discharge its financial
obligations.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.005 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   At the time of original construction of the public sewer, the city may
install at its expense that portion of the service from the main to the back of
curb in street right-of-way. The city shall maintain at its expense, the public
sewer. Those customers making connections at the time of original construction
of the public sewer, shall install at their expense, that portion of the
service from back of curb on street right-of-way to their premises. The
customer shall maintain, at his or her expense, the building drain and building
sewer from the main to the building.
   (B)   Those customers making connections subsequent to the time of original
construction of the public sewer shall install at their expense that portion of
the service from the main to the back of curb in street right-of-way in
addition to that portion of the service from said back of curb to their
premises. The customer shall maintain at his or her expense the service line
from the main to the building.
   (C)   The city shall, in no event, be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to
damage nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
   (D)   The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all reasonable
hours be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the city.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.006 DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited upon any public or private property within the city (or any area
under its jurisdiction) any human excrement, garbage, or other objectionable
waste.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE INTO NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted water except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct any privy,
privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage or industrial waste.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city or any other
area under the jurisdiction of the city and abutting any street, alley, or
right-of-way, in which, within 200 feet at the nearest point from the structure
in which sewage originates, there is now located or may in the future be
located a public sewer or combined sewer of the city is hereby required at his
or her own expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provision of this chapter when given official notice to do so,
provided that such connection shall not be required to be made less than 90
days after the sewer so located is constructed and made available for
connection thereto.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.010 DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH CITY EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with the system or any component thereof.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.011 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION OF PRIVATE SANITARY SEWER.
   Before any sanitary sewer system constructed by private, as distinguished
from public funding, hereinafter referred to as the "private sanitary sewer",
shall be permitted to connect to the system, the owner of said system,
hereinafter referred to as the developer, shall do and provide the municipality
with the following:
   (A)   Provide the city with the developer's plans and specifications for
construction, an estimate of the cost of construction, and a performance bond
and deposit with the city the estimated cost of review of construction plans
covering the cost of hiring a registered professional engineer to review plans
and specifications, which monies shall be placed by the city in an escrow
account in the name of said developer.
   (B)   Obtain approval of the city of the plans and specifications.
   (C)   Secure all necessary permits for construction.
   (D)   Upon commencement of construction of the private sanitary sewer,
deposit with the city in the escrow account referred to in division (A) of this
section a sum of not less than 10% of the cost of construction of the
wastewater system improvements to cover the anticipated cost of inspection of
construction and payment of connection charges.
   (E)   Upon completion of connection of the private sanitary sewer to the
system, the performance bond, upon recommendation of the Director of Public
Works and approval of the Commission, shall be released and any monies
remaining in the developer's escrow account shall be returned to the developer.
Any additional expenses incurred by the city in assuring the city that the
private sanitary sewer is properly operating shall be deducted therefrom or
charged directly to the developer, at the option of the city. An accounting of
expenditures shall be made to the developer by the city.
   (F)   Thereafter, in accordance with the subdivision ordinance, any accepted
privately constructed main collector sewer system within a publicly dedicated
right-of-way, shall become a public sewer
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 51.025 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM;
COMPLIANCE.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.060 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sanitary sewer disposal system which shall be approved by the Central Michigan
District Health Department.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.026 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   All private sanitary sewage disposal systems maintained in compliance with
this chapter shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times at the sole
expense of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 CONNECTING TO PUBLIC SEWER; ABANDONMENT OF PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   (A)   At such time as the public sanitary sewer system becomes available to
premises served by a private sanitary sewage disposal system, connection to the
public system shall be made in compliance with this chapter, and any septic
tank cesspools, and similar private disposal facilities located thereon shall
be abandoned and discontinued for sanitary sewage disposal use.
   (B)   All abandoned private sanitary sewage disposal systems shall be
completely filled with earth, sand, gravel, concrete or other approved
material. Upon the abandonment or discontinuation of use of a septic tank or
privy, the sewage and sludge contents thereof shall be completely removed and
disposed of by a septic tank cleaner who is duly licensed under provisions of
Public Act 243 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11701 et seq. The tank, or the
pit in the instance of a privy, shall be treated with at least ten pounds of
chlorinated lime or other chemical disinfectant acceptable to the Building
Official. Then the tank or pit shall be completely backfilled with approved
material and made safe from the hazard of collapse or entrapment.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.040 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer (lead) shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only by
special permission granted by the Manager.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 INSTALLATION COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation of the building sewer
and the connection of same to the public sewer shall be borne by the property
owner.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.042 BUILDING SEWER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All building sewers (leads) shall meet or exceed the requirements of
the ordinances of the city or the requirements of this chapter, whichever shall
be most stringent.
   (B)   Building sewers hereinafter installed shall consist of pipes and
fittings of the following types and sizes:
      (1)   Pipe must be of sufficient diameter to carry the estimated volume
of discharge. Minimum pipe size permitted is four-inch inside diameter.
      (2)   Pipe must be one of the following materials and cannot be mixed in
the connection lines to include the fittings:
         (a)   Cast iron with rubber-type gaskets or leaded joint;
         (b)   Cast iron no hub pipe with neoprene stainless couplings;
         (c)   Ductile iron with rubber-type gaskets, slip joint or mechanical
joint;
         (d)   Vitrified clay tile with ASTM C425 joints;
         (e)   Reinforced concrete with ASTM C443 joints;
         (f)   PVC plastic, Schedule 40 or better;
      (3)   No tees, double tees, or crosses, or double hub pipes shall be
permitted;
      (4)   Old building sewers or portions thereof may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found on examination and tested by the
Inspector to meet all requirements of this chapter; and
      (5)   All changes in grades or direction shall be made with appropriate
fittings.
   (C)   Clean-outs shall be installed every 100 feet of straight run and at
each 90-degree direction change, and all clean-outs shall be plugged.
   (D)   All lines shall be laid at a minimum slope of one-eighth- inch per
foot grade and a maximum slope of one-half-inch per foot grade for four-inch
lines and at a minimum of one-eighth-inch per foot grade and a maximum one-
half-inch per foot grade for six-inch lines.
   (E)   The method to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall conform to the requirements of the
Plumbing Code Rules (Part 7) issued by the Michigan Department of Labor
Construction Code Commission and the regulations of the city where applicable.
   (F)   All joints and connections shall be gas tight and shall conform to the
requirements of the current building and plumbing codes.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All
excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open
trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with current ASTM Specifications
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by an approved pumping system and discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   All excavations for building sewer installation and connection shall
be adequately guarded by barricades and lighting so as to protect the public
from hazards. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the installation and connection work shall be
restored in the manner set forth in Chapter 99 of this code.
   (J)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" branch designated for that property, if such branch is
available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated "Y"
branch in the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector and
approved by the Manager. All taps directly into the main require the use of a
boring machine.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 INSPECTOR TO BE NOTIFIED WHEN WORK READY FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Inspector when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his or her
representative
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.044 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION; FEE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. Before a permit may be
issued, any person other than utility companies doing excavation work in any
city street or alley shall provide the city with a surety bond in the amount of
$1,000 per job or $5,000 per year guaranteeing that the contractor will
complete the work in accordance with all ordinances and the plans and
specifications as approved by the Director of Public Works. This bond shall
state that the persons will indemnify and save harmless the city and the owner
of the premises against all damages, costs, expenses, outlays, and claims of
every nature and kind arising out of unskillfulness or negligence on his or her
part in connection with plumbing or excavating for plumbing as prescribed in
this chapter. Such bond shall remain in force and must be executed for a period
of one year except that on such expiration it shall remain in force as to all
penalty claims and demands that may have accrued thereunder prior to such
expiration.
   (B)   The fee, if any, for the connection permit shall be an amount
established by resolution of the Commission.
   (C)   The person applying for a connection permit will receive one copy of
the permit; one copy will be retained by the issuing City Department; one copy
will go to the City Treasurer; one copy will be retained by the Inspector. The
copy retained by the Inspector shall be returned to the issuing department with
a sketch of the actual installation on the back showing all dimensions,
directions, and other pertinent information concerning the installation. The
copy with the sketch shall bear the signature of the Inspector and the date the
inspection was made.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.045 CONNECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No connection to the system will be permitted unless there is capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the sewage
treatment plant, including capacity for treatment of B.O.D. and suspended
solids.
   (B)   All connections to the system will be made by a licensed contractor or
plumber provided, however, that a property owner may make his or her own
installation and connection in accordance with the requirements of this chapter
and law so long as he/she has secured a connection permit. This does not allow
a property owner to hire an unlicensed contractor to do his or her work.
   (C)   All licensed contractors and plumbers making connections to the
systems shall file with the city, a copy of their liability insurance prior to
performing any connections to the system meeting city requirements.
   (D)   No person shall connect roof downspouts, foundation drains, area way
drains, or any sources of surface or ground water to a building sewer which in
turn is connected to the system.
   (E)   No building sewer shall be covered until after it has been inspected
and approved by authorized personnel of the city or its designee. No building
sewer shall be used until final approval after the trench is backfilled; an air
test may be required at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.060 MANDATORY CONNECTION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Mandatory connection requirement. Each and every owner of property on
which is located a structure in which sanitary sewage originates, shall, at his
or her own expense, install suitable toilet facilities in said structure, and
shall cause such facilities to be connected to the available public sanitary
sewer system.
   (B)   Connection procedure.
      (1)   Such connection shall be completed promptly but in no case later
than 90 days from the date of the occurrence of the last of the following
events:
         (a)   Publication of a notice by the City Clerk of the availability of
the public sanitary sewer system in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city, and the mailing of written notice indicating the availability of the
public sanitary sewer to the owner or any one of the owners in the case of co-
ownership of the property in question.
         (b)   Modification of a structure so as to become a structure where
sanitary sewage originates.
         (c)   Improvement of land with building or structures from which
sanitary sewage originates.
      (2)   If the owner of property on which is located a structure in which
sanitary sewage originates does not complete connection to an available
sanitary sewer within the 90-day period described in division (B)((1) above,
the City Clerk shall notify said person by written notice that connection to
the system is required forthwith. The giving of said notice shall be made by
first class mail to the owner of the property on which the structure is located
and by posting such notice on the property. Notice shall provide the owner with
the approximate location of the public sanitary sewer system which is available
for connection of the structure involved and shall advise the owner of the
requirements and the enforcement provisions of this chapter and M.C.L.A. §§
333.12751 through 333.12758, as amended.
      (3)   Adverse weather exception for late connection. In the event the
property owner is unable to connect to the system within the time prescribed by
this chapter due to or on account of inclement or adverse weather conditions,
said property owner may appeal to the Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals
established pursuant to §
51.126(A) of this chapter to allow said person additional time in which to
connect without penalty and without civil and criminal proceedings being
initiated against him/her. The foregoing notwithstanding, this appeal shall be
made in writing within ten days of notice of sanitary sewer availability as
hereinbefore set forth.
   (C)   Enforcement of mandatory connection requirements - penalties for late
connection. Failure or refusal to connect to the system within the time
prescribed herein shall result in the property being charged a penalty of $100
for each single-family residential unit multiplied by the number of units and/
or multiplying factors as established by the Table of Residential Equivalents.
Each day that a violation of this chapter shall continue shall be construed to
constitute a separate offense. Civil and/or criminal proceedings to compel
connection are established under §
51.130.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, or roof water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater, ground water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged into storm drains or to a natural outlet approved by the city.
   (C)   Industrial cooling water which is unpolluted and not contaminated with
oil, algaecides or other pollutants, or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, upon application to and approval of the city, to a storm drain or
natural outlet.
   (D)   Industrial cooling water containing only such pollutants as insoluble
oils or grease or other suspended solids shall be pretreated for removal of the
pollutants and then discharged to the stormwater.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   The following are prohibited discharges:
   (A)   Any waste with a closed cup flash point of less than 140° F. or any
liquids, solids, gases, vapors, or fumes, which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW, the operation of the POTW, or the employees of the POTW. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater system.
   (C)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, metal shavings, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, woods, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
   (D)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per
liter, by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
   (E)   Any garbage with particle size of one-half-inch in any dimension.
   (F)   The minimum temperature of the waste shall not be less than 32° F. at
the point of discharge. The maximum temperature of the waste shall not be
greater than 150° F. at the point of discharge and shall not cause a wastewater
temperature in excess of 104° F. at the entrance to the treatment facility,
whichever is more restrictive, unless written authorization is received from
the city.
   (G)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
   (H)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (I)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
which may exceed limits established by applicable state and federal regulations
shall not be allowed.
   (J)   Any waste that is considered hazardous under RCRA regulations unless
specifically exempted through a user contribution permit.
   (K)   Any trucked or hauled waste except at specific locations that have
been approved by the superintendent of the POTW.
   (L)   Any trucked or hauled waste that would be considered a prohibited
discharge under divisions (A) through (N) of this section.
   (M)   Any trucked or hauled waste that has not been approved by the
Superintendent of the POTW.
   (N)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
   (O)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (B.O.D., and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference to the POTW. In no case shall a
slug load have a flow rate or contain quantities of pollutants that exceed for
any period of time longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration, quantities, or flow during normal operation.
   (P)   (1)   Any waters or wastes containing compatible or toxic pollutants,
which singly or by interaction with other pollutants, exceed limitations
established by the city for the following reasons:
         (a)   To prevent treatment process pass-through of pollutants which
violate water quality standards of the receiving stream.
         (b)   To prevent injury or inhabitation of the treatment process or
sludge handling facilities.
         (c)   To prevent contamination of the wastewater sludge and
interference with the sludge disposal process.
         (d)   To comply with federal EPA categorical pretreatment standards.
      (2)   Toxic pollutants shall include, but are not limited to, any
substance identified on the Federal EPA Priority Pollutant and State of
Michigan Critical Materials List. Methods used by the city to establish
limitations shall be in accordance with the latest guidance of the Michigan
Department of Natural Resources. Limitations may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the users' intake water supply in accordance with
part 403.15 of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency General Pretreatment
Regulations of January 28, 1981.
   (Q)   Any waters or wastes exceeding the following characteristics:430 mg/
l BOD(S), 615 mg/l S.S., 8 mg/l P, 36 mg/L ammonia nitrogen.
   (R)    Heavy metal discharge limits exceeding the following:
          Local Limit
POLLUTANT (Daily Max)
          (mg/l)
                Local Limit
POLLUTANT       (Daily Max)
                (mg/l)
Arsenic         0.25
Cadmium         0.57
Chromium, Total 1.28
Copper          0.59
Cyanide         0.09
Lead            6.0
Mercury         ND*
Molybdenum      2.84
Nickel          1.60
Selenium        1.49
Silver          0.89
Zinc            0.4
*Non-Detectable is defined as at or below the quantification level applicable
under 40 CFR Part 136 as determined by the City WRRF Superintendent. Mercury
sampling procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical protocol for
compliance monitoring of a user's discharge shall be in accordance with the
applicable US EPA method as determined by the Superintendent. The
quantification levels shall be 0.2 µg/l or 0.5 ng/l, depending on the method
required by the Superintendent, unless higher levels are approved by the
Superintendent because of sample matrix interference. Any discharge of mercury
at or above the required level of quantification is a specific violation of
this chapter.
 
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps) or any other method approved
by the city shall be provided at the expense of the property owner when liquid
wastes contain grease in excessive amounts, or other harmful ingredients. An
interceptor shall be required for every food service establishment (restaurant
and fast food outlets), automotive repair shop or garage, car wash, or any
other type of establishment or use as determined necessary by the WRRF
Superintendent. An interceptor shall not be required for single-family and
multi-family dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall
be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction,
watertight and equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted into
place shall be gastight and watertight.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps) or any
other method approved by the city shall be maintained by the owner, at his or
her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.064 RIGHT OF REVIEW BY CITY; PRETREATMENT MAY BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Right of review by city. Admission into the public sewers of
wastewaters containing any prohibited discharges in §
51.062 or having an average daily flow rate of 10,000 gallons or more shall be
subject to review by the city. All proposed discharges to the sanitary sewers
shall be reviewed prior to connection. The discharge of an existing user shall
be subject to review if a change in the contribution is anticipated or at the
request of the city to demonstrate continued compliance with ordinance
requirements. In support of this review, existing or potential users of the
sewers shall provide all information necessary to complete the review. This
information shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   File a written statement setting forth the nature of the
enterprise, the source and amount of water used, the amount of water to be
discharged with its present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical,
radioactive, or other pertinent characteristics of the wastes.
      (2)   Provide a report on raw materials entering the process or support
system, intermediate materials, final product, and waste by-products as those
factors may affect waste control.
      (3)   Provide a plan map of the building, works, or complex, with each
outfall to the surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewers, natural
watercourse, or groundwaters noted, described, and the waste stream identified.
      (4)   Records and reports on the final disposal of specific liquids,
solids, sludges, oils, solvents, radioactive materials, and other wastes.
      (5)   In the case of existing discharges, sampling and test reports as
may be required by the city.
   (B)   Right to exclude or require pretreatment. On direction of the city, an
entity may be required to remove, exclude, or require pretreatment of any waste
in whole or in part for any reasons deemed to be in the city's interest. Where
preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained in satisfactory and effective operation at no expense to
the city and shall be designed and operated to assure that wastewaters
discharged meet the characteristics set forth in §
51.062. A wastewater contribution permit may be required for any discharge as
provided in §§
51.080 through
51.088.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.065 SPECIAL ALTERNATIVE LIMITS.
   (A)   No provision of this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any user whereby sewage
or wastes of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the sewage system
for treatment, subject to the payment by such user of such additional charges
as may be reasonable. However, federal and state prohibited discharge standards
can never be waived. Where authorized by the WRRF Superintendent, special
alternative limit agreements shall be made such that the allocation to all
industrial users in the city service area does not exceed the calculated
maximum allowable industrial loading (MAIL) for any parameter and such that the
allocation to all sewer users does not exceed the calculated maximum allowable
headworks loading (MAHL) for any parameter summarized in this section.
   (B)   A non-domestic user may, at the time of application for a wastewater
discharge permit, or by a special alternative limit application, request that
permitted discharge limits be increased from the standard local limits listed
in §
51.062. Such special alternative limits shall be expressed as total daily
pounds of pollutant discharged. Special alternative limits (SALs) shall be
developed in accordance with the procedure for special alternative limits
allocation as outlined in the Industrial Pretreatment Program manual for the
city and approved by EGLE. The city's rules and regulations shall be available
for inspection at 1301 N. Franklin St., Mt. Pleasant, MI 48858.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to reduce or deny special alternative
limits if total pollutant discharges near or reach the MAHLs set forth in the
table in this section. The city reserves the right to amend the MAHLs set forth
in this section at its discretion. The special alternative limit must not
result in the POTW (including the collection system) receiving pollutants in
excess of its ability to convey or treat.
   (D)   A user which requests a special alternative limit through the permit
application process must sign a written acknowledgment whereby the user
consents to comply with all terms and conditions which may be imposed by the
city. Such acknowledgment shall be in a form provided by the city, and must be
executed by an authorized representative before any special alternative limit
is effective.
   (E)   In addition, the city reserves the right to institute a review of any
previously permitted special alternative limits at any time, pursuant to which
the city, in its discretion, upon notice and the opportunity for hearing, may
reduce or eliminate a user's previously permitted to approved special
alternative limit.
   (F)   Any discharge in excess of the amount permitted by the special
alternative limit is prohibited and is therefore a violation of this section
and the user's wastewater discharge permit.
   (G)   The EGLE approved (2020) MAHL and MAILs for parameters that may be
considered for SALs are as follows:
 
Parameter      MAHL     MAIL
               (lb/day) (lb/day)
BOD5           5,764    645
TSS            5,725    924
Phosphorus     114      13
Ammonia (as N) 918      54
 
   (H)   MAHL and MAIL values will be re-evaluated periodically as required by
federal and state IPP regulations.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.066 MONITORING.
   (A)   When required by the city to demonstrate compliance with this chapter,
the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer shall install a suitable
control manhole together with sampling equipment, flow meters, and other
appurtenances as necessary in the building sewer to facilitate monitoring the
control manhole shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him/her so as to be safe and accessible at
all times. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer from the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristic of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with 40 CFR Part 136, as amended, or as required by EGLE. All
measurements, tests, and analyses shall be determined as the control manhole
and upon suitable samples taken at said manhole. It shall be the responsibility
of the industrial customer to provide flow measuring sampling equipment for
each control manhole.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRETREATMENT PROVISIONS
§ 51.080 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Introduction. This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for
direct and indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment
system and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal
pretreatment regulations (40 CFR Part 403).
   (B)   Federal standards supersede. Any existing or new federal categorical
pretreatment standards shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed
under this chapter if more stringent. In such a case, the Superintendent shall
notify all affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 CFR
403.12.
   (C)   Modification of federal pretreatment standards.
      (1)   Where the city's wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the city may
apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
federal pretreatment standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the
amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the
wastewater treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to establish as described in §
51.062(P), more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.081 DILUTION PROHIBITED.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the city or state. (Exception is made when applicable
to dilution to meet the pH requirement.)
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.082 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES; NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter and operational upset
of pretreatment facilities. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials and operational upsets shall be provided and maintained at
the owner's or user's own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities
and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the
city for review, and shall be approved by the city before construction of the
facility. All existing users shall complete such a plan by 180 days after the
effective date of this chapter. No user who commences contribution to the POTW
after the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until accidental discharge and operational upset
procedures have been approved by the city. Review and approval of such plans
and operating procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter. Copies of the user's spill prevention control and countermeasure
(SPCC) plan and the pollution incidence prevention plan (PIPP) shall be filed
with the city.
   (A)   Immediate notice. In the case of an accidental discharge or
operational upset, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective
actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge or
operational upset, the user shall submit to the Manager a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or
other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.083 FUNDING OF PRETREATMENT PROGRAM.
   The pretreatment program shall be funded as provided by §
51.100 of this chapter.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.084 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES AND CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any wastewater to the municipal sanitary
sewer collection system or other natural outlets within the jurisdiction of the
city except as authorized by the city in accordance with this chapter.
   (A)   The discharge of all major contributing dischargers shall be subject
to review by the city as provided in §
51.064 of this chapter.
      (1)   A wastewater contribution permit shall be obtained for any
discharge from a major contributing discharger which is characterized by the
city as any one of the following:
         (a)   A discharge with potential to cause violation of the municipal
NPDES permit limitations or water quality standards of the stream receiving the
effluent of the treatment works;
         (b)   A discharge with potential to cause interference with the
treatment process or wastewater sludge disposal procedures;
         (c)   A discharge regulated by federal EPA categorical pretreatment
standards;
         (d)   A discharge from any pretreatment facility;
         (e)   A discharge allowed under a SAL as provided by §
51.065 of this chapter.
         (f)   A discharge from any significant industrial user as defined in §
51.002 of this chapter.
      (2)   A wastewater contribution permit shall be obtained within 180 days
after the effective date of this chapter for existing major contributing
dischargers required by the city to obtain a permit. All other permits shall be
obtained prior to connection to the sewer system.
   (B)   Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall
complete and file with the city, an application in the form prescribed by the
city, and accompanied by a fee. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater
contribution permit within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter,
and proposed new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall submit,
in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the information required in §
51.064, herein. The following information shall also be submitted:
      (1)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (2)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment shall be submitted to the Superintendent.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The following
conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
         (b)   No increment referred to in (B)(1)(a) above shall exceed nine
months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
      (3)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
such standards shall be revised to required compliance with such standards
within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a
national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an
application for a wastewater contribution permit as required by division (B)
above of this section, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution
permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing
wastewater contribution permit shall submit to the Superintendent within 180
days after the promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment
standard the information required by divisions (B)(1) and (2) above.
   (D)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards of tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Best management practices;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city, and affording city access
thereto. All records shall be retained for a minimum of three years or in the
case of enforcement actions until all enforcement activities have concluded;
      (10)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (11)   Requirements to control slug discharges, if determined necessary
by the WRRF Superintendent;
      (12)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (13)   Requirements placing the waste treatment facilities, process
facilities, waste streams, or other potential waste problems under the specific
supervision and control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate
state agency as properly qualified to supervise such facilities;
      (14)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter;
      (15)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedules may not extend the compliance date beyond applicable
federal deadlines; and
      (16)   Shall contain at least the following: the term of the permit; a
statement of non- transferability; specific discharge limitations; monitoring,
sampling, recordkeeping, notification, and reporting requirements; as well as
compliance schedules, and a statement of penalties.
   (E)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed
five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be
stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance
a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The
terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city
during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements are modified, due
to a change in contribution by the user, or other just cause exists. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (F)   Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the city.
   (G)   Any user issued a wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the
Superintendent during the month of June and December, unless required more
frequently, a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in
the effluent and any other information the Manager deems necessary as listed in
§
51.064.
   (H)   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users in cases where
they are appropriate, in such cases, the report required by division (G) above
of this section shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment
standards in the effluent of the user.
   (I)   Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable
to the city before construction of the facility. The review of plans and
operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (J)   Wastewater discharge permit revocation. The Plant Superintendent may
revoke a wastewater discharge permit for good cause, including, but not limited
to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the Plant Superintendent of significant changes
to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Plant Superintendent
of changed conditions;
      (3)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the Plant Superintendent timely access to the
facility premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or wastewater discharge
permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or these rules.
   (K)   Food establishments and other facilities required to install and
maintain grease interceptors are required to obtain a grease interceptor
permit. Grease interceptor permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards of tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of interceptor cleaning, pump out, and
maintenance records;
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city, and affording city access
thereto. All records shall be retained for a minimum of three years or in the
case of enforcement actions until all enforcement activities have concluded;
      (9)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter;
      (10)   And shall contain at least the following: the term of the permit;
a statement of non- transferability; specific discharge limitations;
monitoring, sampling, recordkeeping, notification, and reporting requirements;
as well as compliance schedules, and a statement of penalties.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.085 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pre-treatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Plant Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (A)(2) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard, shall submit to the Plant Superintendent a report which contains, the
method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operations carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e);
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pre-treatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the Plant
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or
mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
40 CFR;
         (f)    Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in §
51.062 of this chapter;
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified by an authorized representative in accordance with
§
51.002 of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by §
51.085(A)(2)(g) of this chapter.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Plant Superintendent
no later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Plant Superintendent.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard
deadlines.
      (1)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the Plant Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
51.085(G) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration, limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c)1. this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-
term production rate.
      (2)   For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified by an authorized representative as defined in §
51.002 of this chapter.
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the Plant Superintendent but in no case less than twice per year (in June
and December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified by an authorized
representative as defined in §
51.002 of this chapter.
      (2)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that the sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (3)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Plant
Superintendent, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the Plant
Superintendent of any planned significant changes to the user's operations or
system, which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at
least ten days before the change.
      (1)   The Plant Superintendent may require the user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application as
required by this chapter.
      (2)   The Plant Superintendent may issue a wastewater discharge permit
under Section 51.084 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge
permit in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the Plant
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the Plant Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing
the causes of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person, or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the Plant
Superintendent as he/she may require.
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the Plant
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Plant Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware
of the violation. The user is not required to resample if the Plant
Superintendent monitors at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the
Plant Superintendent samples between the user's initial sampling and when the
user receives the results of this sampling.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and EGLE,
in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part 261. Such notification
must include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261,
the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch,
or other). If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the
following 12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days
after the discharge commences. Any notification under this division (I)(1) need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
51.085(E) of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does
not apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pre-
treatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements required by
wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of §
51.085(I)(1), above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more
than 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than
15 kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any
quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33
(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Plant
Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable
categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling
or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses
must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
   (K)   Sample collection.
      (1)   Except as indicated in §
51.085(K)(2), below, the user must collect wastewater samples using flow
proportional composite collection techniques. In the event flow proportional
sampling is infeasible, the Plant Superintendent may authorize the use of time
proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance
with instantaneous discharge limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, PFAS, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
   (L)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a
mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt
of the report shall govern.
   (M)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, including documentation associated with best management
practices, and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and
the name of the persons taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed;
who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user
has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Plant
Superintendent.
(Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.086 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Significant noncompliance. The Plant Superintendent will provide at least
annual public notification, in the area's largest newspaper, a list of
significant industrial or non- domestic users which, during the previous 12
months, were in significant noncompliance of applicable pretreatment standards
or other pre-treatment requirements and violations of this chapter. A
SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE is a violation which meets one or more of the
following criteria:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed, by any magnitude, the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
   (B)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined as those in which
33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC. The TRC equals 1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH;
   (C)   Any other discharge violation that the Superintendent believes has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-
through, including endangering the health of city personnel or the general
public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent the public or to
the environment or has resulted in the Plant Superintendent to the exercise of
its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the schedule date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, compliance monitoring reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, other reports as requested, and reports on
compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violations which the Superintendent determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.087 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   All information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit application, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspection shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests the information be classified confidential on the
basis of proprietary processes. When information is classified confidential,
the WRRF Superintendent shall provide proper and adequate facilities and
procedures to safeguard the confidentiality of manufacturing proprietary
processes, except that confidentiality shall not extend to waste products
discharged to the waters of the state.
   (B)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.088 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, to meet the provisions of this section or to protect the
treatment system from threatened discharge that would jeopardize water quality
standards, possibly damage the sewerage system, or cause a nuisance or unsafe
condition.
   (B)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this section, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her
permit revoked:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Whenever the city finds that any user has violated or is violating
this chapter, wastewater contribution permit, or any prohibition, limitation of
requirements contained herein, the city may serve upon such a person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the
notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to
the city by the user.
   (D)   The city may bring legal action with civil and criminal penalties
against anyone using the disposal system contrary to this section, in
accordance with §§
51.128,
51.130 and
51.997.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.089 BY-PASS.
   No user shall by-pass pretreatment processes, anticipated or unanticipated,
without prior notification and approval of the manager. Such by-pass is
prohibited unless unavoidable or justifiable.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-
29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.090 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent
causes by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless
or improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(3) below, are met;
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset. If this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days:
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
to the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions or the specific prohibitions in §
51.062 of this chapter if it can provide that it did not know, or have reason
to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other
sources, would cause pass-through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section:
         (a)   BYPASS means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any
portion of the user's treatment facility.
         (b)   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of division (C)(3) or (4) of this section.
      (3)   Bypass notifications.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
      (4)   Bypass.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtown. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtown or preventative maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(3)
of this section.
         (b)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(4)(a) of this section.
(Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.100 CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is recognized that use of the system requires payment of costs of
providing the services of the system. Such costs include not only the day- to-
day operation and maintenance costs, but also the costs incurred to construct
and install the system components, the cost to undertake reasonably foreseeable
repairs and replacement, the costs to treat wastes of extra strength or volume,
and the like. When the system components were designed and constructed, they
necessarily needed to be sized to accommodate all foreseeable possible usage of
the system from a premises so the system is available to accommodate such
reasonably foreseeable usage. Accordingly, certain charges are imposed
regardless of actual usage, while other charges recognize that those who
actually make more use of the system should pay more.
   (B)   Rates, fees and charges for connection to and use of the system shall
be in amounts established from time to time by resolution of the City
Commission, based on the following:
      (1)   All users within the city shall pay user rates and charges based on
the cost of providing sanitary sewer service in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A service charge based on water meter size for each meter on the
premises. The service charge shall be the minimum charge to a user, regardless
of actual water or sanitary sewer use.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G), a consumption
charge per cubic gallon of water used from the city water system. This volume
or commodity charge shall be in addition to the service charge.
         (c)   If a system user is not connected to the city water system, the
City Commission shall establish by resolution a flat rate commodity charge,
based on a table of unit factors, upon the size of the water meter that would
be installed if city water service was provided to the premises or using
another methodology that, at the City Commission's discretion, provides a
reasonable basis to roughly approximate the amount of water and, consequently,
sanitary sewer usage for the premises.
      (2)   A debt service charge shall be paid by all users of the system for
the purpose of generating revenues for retirement of bonds issued after January
1, 2000, for the construction of system improvements. Such debt service charge
may be calculated on the same basis as and added to either the service charge
provided in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or the consumption charge
provided for in division (B)(1)(b) of this section, or as part of both such
charges.
      (3)   For any premises not currently metered, there shall be a meter
charge to defray the cost of the meter and its installation, which shall be the
current charge established under the water ordinance provisions of the city
code.
      (4)   A connection fee or fees shall be levied for all connections to the
sewer system. Such fees shall be based upon the table of equivalent units to be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Commission. Services
shall be inspected to insure acceptable connection to the public system. This
inspection shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Direct connection. Direct connections are those which are made
to an existing public sanitary sewer. (Refer to §
51.042(J).)
            1.   Tap to main sewer.
            2.   Service line materials and installation.
            3.    Connection of service line within right-of-way to service
line on private property.
         (b)   Indirect connection. The connection of service line within
right-of-way to service line on private property shall be inspected. Indirect
connections are those which are made to an existing service lead, which meets
all chapter requirements.
      (5)   If the character of the sewage of any user imposes an unreasonable
additional burden upon the sewage disposal and transmission system of the city,
then an additional charge shall be made. Effluent in excess of the maximum
limitations imposed by this chapter shall be deemed prima facie subject to
surcharge. If necessary to protect the system or any part thereof, the city
shall deny the right of any user to empty such sewage into the system.
Surcharges required by this section shall be computed as a percentage of the
annual cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, multiplied by
the ratio of weight of surchargeable excess of the discharged substance to the
total weight of such substance that is treated in that year. This amount shall
be collected, on the basis of estimated surchargeable amounts, with each
periodic billing and shall be adjusted annually to reflect actual operation,
maintenance and replacement costs. Surcharge rates shall be established by
resolution of the Commission, and the amount necessity of surcharge may be
appealed by the user to the Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals hereinafter
established.
      (6)   In addition to all other charges, individual users affected by the
pretreatment requirements of this chapter may be assessed charges for recovery
of cost incurred by the city for the following:
         (a)   A proportionate share of the cost to establish and administer
the pretreatment program.
         (b)   Fees to cover the cost of preparing and reviewing wastewater
contribution permits.
         (c)   The cost of inspecting construction of individual pretreatment
facilities.
         (d)   The cost to monitor compliance with provisions of the wastewater
contribution permit, including sampling, testing and analysis of the individual
discharge, inspections of a user's monitoring and pretreatment facilities,
inspections or sampling for users with a grease interceptor permit, review of
response submitted by the user, and any other surveillance activities.
         (e)   The cost of reviewing and inspecting spill containment and
accidental discharge procedures and facilities.
         (f)   Fees for the consistent removal of a pollutant (by the city)
which is otherwise subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards.
         (g)   Other charges as may be necessary to carry out the pretreatment
requirements of the chapter.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and the users whereby the
sanitary wastes of unusual flows, strength or character of such user or class
of users may be accepted into the system, subject to payment therefor by such
users or class of users.
   (C)   Rates shall be established by resolution of the City Commission and
shall be revised from time to time as required to maintain the fiscal integrity
of the system, and the same may be revised and taxed by resolution of the City
Commission as may be necessary to produce the amounts required to pay such
charges and expenditures and provide the fund necessary for the maintenance of
the financial integrity of the system.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting, modifying or
amending any special assessments levied against certain properties within the
city in connection with the construction of sanitary sewers.
   (E)   For customers with multiple meters, each meter shall be treated as a
separate customer for calculation of charges.
   (F)   The city may require metering of water and/or sewage flows for
premises not connected to the city water system to determine the adequacy of
charges.
   (G)   Sewer users in the city are charged based on their metered use of
water. However, some users use water in such a way that does not result in
return water flow to the sanitary sewer system, and therefore their sewage
charge does not reflect actual sewer use. Accordingly, notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, users meeting the following criteria may
install a city-approved meter to calculate the amount of water used that is not
discharged into the sewer system, and have their sewer charges reduced
according to that amount:
      (1)   Residential use. A user may, at his or her sole expense, install a
city-approved meter for lawn irrigation or landscaping purposes only. Users
installing residential meters in accordance with this division shall be charged
the service charge, defined in division (B)(1)(a) above, for the months of May
to October only.
      (2)   Commercial or industrial use. For commercial or industrial
manufacturing uses, the user shall:
         (a)   Submit an application to the WRRF Superintendent, in a form
developed by the WRRF Superintendent, for approval, demonstrating that the
proposed manufacturing use will not result in water being discharged into the
sanitary sewer system. The WRRF Superintendent shall develop a policy
establishing the criteria to be considered for approving such requests.
         (b)   Pay the full cost of installation of a separate city-approved
meter and appropriate lines that will meter the use of water for manufacturing
purposes only. After installation, the city shall inspect and approve the meter
and lines.
         (c)   Users shall provide reasonable access to the meters for ongoing
inspections.
         (d)   Users shall not direct any water metered through a water-only
meter to the sanitary sewer system.
   (H)   Users meeting the criteria under §
51.100(G) will be charged for all metered water at the rates set from time to
time by the City Commission, and shall not be charged for sanitary sewer
services on the meter readings made.
   (I)   If, through its inspections or meter readings, the city determines
that a user authorized under §
51.100(G) diverts water metered by a water-only meter and into the sanitary
sewer system, the city shall bill the user for the sanitary sewer use at the
rates then established, as they may be amended from time to time by the City
Commission, for all billing periods during which the unlawful diversion
occurred. If the billing periods during which unlawful diversion occurred
cannot be established, the sanitary sewer charges will be applied, based on the
water usage of the meter for the preceding three years.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 850, passed
12-11-00; Am. Ord. 979, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.101 TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS.
   (A)   Table of unit factors. For the purposes of rates, fees and charges as
provided in §
51.100, the City Commission may adopt and amend from time to time by resolution
a table of unit factors setting forth and identifying the user class and all
applicable factors to be multiplied by the monthly charge established for
single-family residential premises.
   (B)   Rules for interpreting table of unit factors.
      (1)   The minimum equivalent factor for commercial and industrial users
shall be 1.0.
      (2)   Equivalent units for users contained in said table will be based
upon the size of the water meter serving the facility.
   (C)   Appeal. A property owner having an equivalent unit factor of more than
one may, upon written request, appeal to the Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals
established pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 850, passed
12-11-00; Am. Ord. 866, passed 11-26-01; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
Cross reference:
   Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals, see §
51.126
§ 51.102 DEFERRING CHARGES.
   No free service shall be furnished to any user of the system, and there
shall be no waiver or forgiveness of charges levied pursuant to this chapter.
However, any resident eligible for deferment of payment of such fees pursuant
to the laws of the state shall be permitted to request such deferment or
partial payment in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 850, passed
12-11-00; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.103 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   When utility charges are not timely paid, it is necessary to re-bill,
to undertake other procedures required by this chapter, to prepare separate
notices and accountings and undertake other tasks that are not needed if such
charges are timely paid. In addition, the other system users essentially
subsidize the non-paying or late paying user's use of the system. The system is
not established, operated or well-adapted to provide financing services for its
users. Accordingly, charges are made to compensate the system for the costs
incurred due to untimely payments
   (B)   Billing for water and sewer charges shall be made monthly and bills
shall be sent to consumers monthly. A late payment charge of 5% of the total
monthly bill shall be added if the bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the
month. Each subsequent month an additional 1% will be added until payment is
made.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 527, passed 8-15-77; Am. Ord. 558, passed 4-16-79;
Am. Ord. 778, passed 10-9-95; Am. Ord. 850, passed 12-11-00; Am. Ord. 1074,
passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.104 ENFORCEMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Nonpayment of special assessment and/or connection and operation
maintenance, and replacement charges. Nonpayment of any special assessment for
sewer service or connection charges for connection to the system shall subject
the property owner to a liability for such charges and penalties as provided
for a late or delayed connection.
   (B)   Nonpayment of service charge.
      (1)   Discontinuance of service. If a service charge established pursuant
to this chapter remains delinquent for a period of 45 days, the city may shut
off and discontinue water and/or sewer service to such premises. Such service
shall not be re-established until all delinquent charges, penalties and a
charge for the re-establishment of such service shall be paid. The turn-on
charge shall be established by resolution of the City Commission.
      (2)   Collection by litigation. In addition to discontinuing service, the
city shall have the option of collecting all such delinquencies and penalties
due pursuant to this chapter by legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Collection by enforcement of lien. Service, installation,
inspection, use and material charges and fees, including penalties and interest
due thereon, shall constitute a lien on the premises served from the date of
such service, unless the city is served with written notice that a tenant is
responsible for such charges. The city official or officials in charge of the
collection annually, not later than May 1 of each year, shall certify to the
tax assessing officer the fact and the amount of such delinquency. The charge
shall then be entered by the tax assessing officer of the city upon the next
tax roll as a charge against the premises, and shall be collected and the lien
thereof enforced in the same manner as general taxes against such premises are
collected and tax liens enforced. If the city is provided with notice in
writing, including a copy of the lease of the affected premises, that a tenant
is responsible for the sewer charge, the city may require, as a condition to
rendering sewer services to such premises, a cash deposit equal to service
charges at current rates for three months as security for the payment of
service charges.
      (4)   Collection of an administrative fee. The city may collect an
administrative fee to offset the cost of attaching liens and collecting
delinquent services charges pursuant to §
51.104(B)(3). Such fee shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Commission, and shall not exceed the cost incurred administering and
collecting such liens.
   (C)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provision to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill.
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before the date, a shut off
notice will be mailed, containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing, service will be discontinued for nonpayment;
and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have the right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented
in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present, orally or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued, and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charge have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for delinquent service have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge to be established by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 704, passed 3-12-91; Am. Ord. 850, passed
12-11-00; Am. Ord. 979, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.125 RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Director of the Division of Public Works of the city, working with the
WRRF Superintendent, is charged with the responsibility of administering the
system and causing the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.126 SANITARY SEWER BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation of Board. A Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals is hereby created
to hear and consider all properly submitted appeals.
   (B)   Meetings and membership of Board. The Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals
shall meet as frequently as is necessary to hear all appeals properly submitted
to it. All other matters relating to the meetings, qualifications for
membership, appointment to office, term of office, and all other organizational
matters of said Board shall be determined by resolution of the Commission.
   (C)   Authority of Board. The Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals shall hear,
consider, and make recommendations to the city of the following matters:
      (1)   Appeals pursuant to §
51.060(B) of this chapter to allow the property owner additional time in which
to connect to the system, without penalty or legal action, because of adverse
weather conditions;
      (2)   Appeals pursuant to §
51.101(C) of this chapter to review the equivalent unit factor assigned a
property owner; and
      (3)   Applications for deferring partial or total payment of connection
charges in the cases of undue hardship pursuant to §
51.102 of this chapter.
   (D)   Final action. After hearing and considering an appeal, the Sanitary
Sewer Board of Appeals shall submit its recommendations as to the granting,
denying, or modification of the decision appealed or relief being sought to the
Commission, and the decision of the Commission on the matter shall be final.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1019, passed 11-14-16; Am. Ord. 1074, passed
9-27-21)
§ 51.127 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right of entry. Agents of the city, the Michigan Department
Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy or the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall have the right to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspecting, measuring, sampling and testing the wastewater discharge as well as
reviewing and copying all relevant records, and the performance of any
additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force, which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Plant Superintendent will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Plant Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the
user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      (3)   The Plant Superintendent may require the user to install,
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the user at its owner expense. All devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated annually to ensure their
accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Plant Superintendent and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Plant Superintendent access to
the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Power and authority of inspectors.
      (1)   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials
and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the
purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Inspectors shall be allowed to
inspect and copy all relevant records.
      (2)   Duly authorized employees of the city may enter at all reasonable
times in or upon private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions or practices which may be in violation of this chapter
or detrimental to the system.
      (3)   Duly authorized employees of the city shall inspect the on-site
work occurring by reason of any system permit. Such person shall have the right
to issue a cease and desist order on the site upon finding a violation of said
permit or this chapter. The order shall contain a statement of the specific
violation and the appropriate means of correcting the same and the time within
which correction shall be made.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the Plant Superintendent has been refused access
to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, state statutes, or regulations, or that there is a need to inspect
and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of the city
designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, then the City Manager may seek issuance of a search warrant from the
Circuit Court for the County of Isabella.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.128 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to immediately and effectively halt or prevent
any discharge to the POTW (after informal notice to the discharger) which
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare
of persons.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 689, passed 4-10-89; Am. Ord. 704, passed 4-
11-91; Am. Ord. 727, passed 6-27-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.129 FISCAL YEAR, RECORDS AND FUNDS.
   (A)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year of the system shall commence on January 1
and end on December 31 in each year.
   (B)   Records and accounts. The city shall keep and maintain proper books
and records and accounts separate from all other records and accounts of the
city in which shall be made full and correct entries of all transactions
relating to the system. The city shall cause an annual audit of such books and
records and accounts of the preceding operating year to be made by a recognized
independent certified public accountant and will supply such audit to
authorized public officials upon proper request. The city shall use the results
of the audit to make adjustments in funds, with deficiencies or surpluses. Any
adjustments necessary for operation and maintenance costs shall be passed on to
users of the systems
   (C)   Establishment of funds.
      (1)   Receiving funds. The revenues of the system shall be set aside as
collected and deposited in a separate depository account at a bank qualified to
do business in the state and designated by resolution of the Commission. Said
account shall be designated as the "Receiving Fund" and the revenues so
deposited shall be transferred from the receiving fund periodically in the
manner and at the times hereinafter specified.
      (2)   Operation and maintenance funds (O & M Funds). Out of the revenues
of the Receiving Fund there shall be first set aside a fund designated as the
"Operation and Maintenance Fund" a sum sufficient to provide for the next
succeeding period of all current expenses for maintenance thereof as may be
necessary to preserve the system in good repair and working order.
      (3)   Debt Retirement Fund. Revenues from the system are not generally to
debt retirement since the improvements are being financed from general
obligation bonds. Due, however, to the inclusion of a debt retirement component
on the charges to non-taxpaying users, there shall be established a Debt
Retirement Fund. There shall be deposited into this Fund sufficient revenues to
cover the pro-rata share of debt retirement allocated to non-taxpaying
customers.
      (4)   Replacement Fund. There shall be established and maintained a fund
designated as "Water Resource Recovery Fund" which shall be used solely for
replacement of equipment at the water resource recovery facility and pumping
stations. The amount set aside each year shall conform to the established
schedule. The Replacement Fund shall be collected and deposited in a depository
bank account separate from the Receiving Fund account.
      (5)   Improvement Fund. There shall be next established and maintained a
fund designated as the "Improvement Fund" which shall be used solely for the
purpose of making improvements, extensions and enlargements to the system.
There shall be deposited into said Fund such revenues as collected from the
Improvement Fund charges. Such charges shall be determined by the Commission.
      (6)   Surplus Fund. Monies remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of
any operating year after full satisfaction of the foregoing funds, shall be
hereafter used in connection with any other project of the city directly
related to the purposes of the system. This shall not apply to all excess
revenues collected from a class of users for operation and maintenance. Such
excess revenues shall be applied to the cost of operation and maintenance
attributable to that class for the next year, and that user class rate shall be
adjusted accordingly.
      (7)   Bank accounts. All monies belonging to any of the foregoing funds
or accounts may be kept in one bank account in which event the money shall be
allocated on the books and records of the city within the single bank account
in the manner set forth above.
      (8)   Deficiencies in funds. In the event the monies in the receiving
fund are insufficient to provide the current requirements of the Operation and
Maintenance Fund or Contract Payment Fund, any monies and/or securities or
other funds of the system may be transferred to such fund, to the extent of any
deficiency therein. All borrowed (transferred) funds shall be paid back to the
funds or securities from which it was borrowed by raising the rates of that
class, or classes, for which monies received were insufficient to provide for
the current requirements of operation and maintenance.
      (9)   Investment of funds. Monies in any fund or account established by
the provisions of this chapter may be invested or deposited in any lawful
investments or deposits and may be invested in obligations of the United States
of America in a manner and subject to any limitations set forth in the laws of
the state. Income received from such investments shall be credited to the fund
from which said investments were made, or pro rata in the case of a single bank
account.
      (10)   Insurance. The city shall maintain and carry insurance on all
physical properties of the system, of a kind and in the amounts normally
carried by public utility companies and municipalities engaged in the operation
of sanitary sewage disposal systems. All monies received from losses under such
insurance policy shall be applied solely to the replacement and restoration of
the property damaged or destroyed.
   (D)   Signatures. All reports and documents required of the user by the POTW
must be signed by an authorized representative of the user and are subject to
federal and state regulations governing fraud and false statements.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed
9-27-21)
§ 51.130 VIOLATIONS; CIVIL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   What constitutes a violation. Whenever, by the provisions of this
chapter, the performance of any act is required or the performance of any act
is prohibited, a failure to comply with such provisions shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. In addition, the failure, neglect or refusal to
comply with a cease and desist order of the enforcing agency shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Civil proceedings to compel compliance. When any violation of this
chapter shall be deemed to be a nuisance per se, the city may bring a civil
proceeding for a mandatory injunction or injunctive order or for such other
remedial relief as will correct or remedy the violation, including damages for
the costs or expenses thereof. The city may join in such action or actions any
number of property owners or users of the system. The provision of such civil
procedures shall be in addition to any criminal penalties provided herein
above.
      (1)   Notification of violation. When the Plant Superintendent finds that
a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Plant Superintendent may serve upon
that user a written notice of violation. Within ten days of the receipt of this
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Plant Superintendent. Submission of this plan
in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or
after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit
the authority of the Plant Superintendent to take any action, including
emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a
notice of violation.
      (2)   Consent orders. The city may enter into consent orders, assurances
of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the document.
      (3)   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, to appear before the city and show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action,
the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a
bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
      (4)   Compliance orders. When the city finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including
additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the
amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend
the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
      (5)   Cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that
the user's past violations are likely to recur, the city may issue an order to
the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the
user to:
            1.    Immediately comply with all requirements; and
            2.    Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
      (6)   Emergency suspensions.
         (a)   The Plant Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's
discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears
to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Plant Superintendent may also immediately suspend a
user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
            1.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Plant
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Plant
Superintendent may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Plant Superintendent that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless termination proceedings are initiated against
the user.
            2.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement, describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the Plant Superintendent prior to
the date of any show cause or termination hearing.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring
hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
      (7)   Termination of discharge.
         (a)   In addition to the provisions in §
51.084(J) of this chapter, any user who violates the following conditions is
subject to discharge termination:
            1.    Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
            2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
            3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
            4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
            5.    Violation of the pretreatment standards in §
51.062 of this chapter.
         (b)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause why the proposed action
should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the Plant Superintendent shall
not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed
9-27-21)
§ 51.997 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the city for a
maximum civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The city may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 727, passed 4-29-91; Am. Ord. 1074, passed
9-27-21)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
§ 51.998 CRIMINAL PENALTIES, IMPRISONMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any applicable state and federal penalties, any person
who:
      (1)   At the time of a violation knew or should have known that a
pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of this
chapter, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued or made by the POTW under this chapter;
      (2)   Intentionally makes a false statement, representation or
certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a permit, or in a
notice, report or record required by this chapter, or in any other
correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the POTW regarding
matters regulated by this chapter;
      (3)   Intentionally falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
chapter; or
      (4)   Commits any other act that is punishable under state law by
imprisonment for more than 90 days;
   (B)   Shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both
in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
§ 51.999 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Plant Superintendent may decline to issue or
reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, unless
such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Plant Superintendent to be necessary to
achieve consistent compliance.
   (B)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water
service to the user may be severed. Service will only recommence, at the user's
expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
   (C)   Public nuisances. A violation of any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the Plant Superintendent. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of
applicable city or township ordinance or state law governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the city for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or
remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 1074, passed 9-27-21)
APPENDIX: TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS
Meter Size Maximum Range      Dwelling Unit
Inches     Gallons Per Minute Equivalents
Meter Size Maximum Range      Dwelling Unit
Inches     Gallons Per Minute Equivalents
5/8        20                 1
3/4        50                 2.5
1-1/2      100                5
2          160                8
3          320                16
4          500                25
6          1,000              50
8          1,600              80
(Ord. 622, passed 3-4-85; Am. Ord. 866, passed 11-26-01; Am. Ord. 1074, passed
9-27-21)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Use Regulations
   
52.01   Water system connections; permit required
   
52.02   Application for permit; tapping fees
   
52.03   Closing of water connection trenches
   
52.04   Water use restriction
   
52.05   Service pipe connections and regulations
   
52.06   Use of one connection; limitation
   
52.07   Lawn sprinkling regulations
   
52.08   Fire prevention connections
   
52.09   Damage to meters
   
52.10   Water main construction
   
52.11   Water wells
   
52.12   Cross connections
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.25   Water rates
   
52.26   No free service
   
52.27   Enforcement of charges
   
52.28   City not liable for disruption of service
   
52.29   Right of entry of city employees
   
52.30   Lien; security deposits
   
52.31   Water funds; records
   
52.32   Director's authority as to emergency use of water
   
52.33   Commission may adopt regulations
   
52.34   Addition of substances to water supply
   
52.35   Fluoridation
Geothermal Systems
   
52.51   Geothermal systems
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Utilities, see Charter
Art. XII
GENERAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 WATER SYSTEM CONNECTIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall tap any water main or distribution pipe of the waterworks
system or insert any corporation cock, stop cock or any other fixture or
appliance, or alter or disturb any service pipe, corporation stop, curb stop,
gate valve, hydrant, water meter or any other attachment, being part of the
waterworks system. No person shall install any water service pipe with or from
the mains or distribution pipes of the waterworks system, nor with or from any
other service pipe or main connected with the system, nor make any repairs,
additions to, or alterations of any such service pipe, tap, stop cock, hydrant,
or other fixture or attachments connected with any such service pipe or main,
without first procuring a permit from the Division of Public Works.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; TAPPING FEES.
   (A)   Before any service connection shall be made to any part of the
waterworks system, or any work performed upon old or new connections, a permit
shall be obtained from the Director of Public Works. Such permit shall be
issued upon written application on forms obtainable from the Director of Public
Works. Applicants for water service shall furnish, lay and install all that
portion of the service not provided by the city at their own expense, subject,
however, to the supervision and inspection of the city.
   (B)   Upon filing an application for a permit to connect with any water main
or distribution pipe of the waterworks system, there shall be paid such tapping
fee as shall be prescribed by the regulations governing the waterworks system.
Such fees shall include all the costs of tapping the main, installing the
corporation cock, furnishing and laying the service pipe to the property line,
and installing stop cock and shutoff box; all such materials shall be the
property of the city water system.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03 CLOSING OF WATER CONNECTION TRENCHES.
   The Division of Public Works, upon completion of water connection
installations from the main to a point at or near the curb line, shall
completely fill the trenches throughout their entire length so that they shall
be safe for public travel. If, however, the plumber, property owner, or other
person responsible for installation of the water extension wishes to have the
city leave a portion of the connection trench unfilled to facilitate
construction of the extension system, he/she may notify the city foreperson on
the job to that effect and the foreperson shall leave that portion of the
trench unfilled. The person responsible for the extension installation shall
then become fully responsible for protecting the public, day and night, against
any harm or damage arising from the opening in the street. Such person shall
provide warning lights and other protective devices prescribed by law without
cost to the city.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.04 WATER USE RESTRICTION.
   The owner or occupant of any building or premises entitled to the use of
water from the system shall not supply water to any other person except upon
written permission of the Director of Public Works, nor shall he/she permit
unnecessary waste of water.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.05 SERVICE PIPE CONNECTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall remove water from any fire hydrant, or turn the water
from any main or distribution pipe into any service pipe without a permit from
the Division of Public Works.
   (B)   All service pipe connecting with the distribution mains of the
waterworks system from the city curb stop to inside the building shall be laid
in accordance with the regulations governing the County Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Whenever the service pipes from the curb stop located near the curb or
property line to the meter or the valves on the pipe at the meter require
repair or replacement to insure proper delivery of water to permit changing the
meter, prevent waste of water, or for any other cause, the property owner shall
be notified to make such replacement or repair, and if such replacement or
repair is not made within seven days, the water service may be discontinued.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 865, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 899, passed
7-26-04)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 USE OF ONE CONNECTION; LIMITATION.
   (A)   Each water service shall supply no more than one building. If separate
city water meters are installed to serve units within the building, each meter
must have a shutoff accessible to the city 24 hours a day. The building owner
shall provide the shutoff for each meter in one of the following ways:
      (1)   Install a branch with a stop cock for each branch outside the line
of the unit to be supplied. Locking mechanisms shall be provided where multiple
branches are served by a single meter. Lockouts and meters must be located in a
central meter room location within each building. The lockset to the meter room
must be keyed to match the city standard meter room key. This is required to
allow 24-hour access by city employees; or
      (2)   Install buried service line branches for each unit with a city
standard direct burial curbstop and riser outside the line of each unit to be
supplied. Individual unit shutoff boxes shall not be installed in the right-of-
way. The location of the shutoffs shall be provided to the city using accurate
dimensions from the building.
   (B)   All existing buildings that currently do not meet the requirements of
this section must meet these requirements whenever alterations, repairs, or
additions requiring a building permit occur with a dollar value to $5,000 or
more, or when the existing water service is replaced. Compliance with the
requirements of this section must occur within 90 days of either of these two
events.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.07 LAWN SPRINKLING REGULATIONS.
   The use of water for sprinkling lawns and gardens, and the hours for such
use, may be prescribed by regulations adopted by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
§ 52.08 FIRE PREVENTION CONNECTIONS.
   The owner or occupant of any building desiring to install large pipes with
hydrant and hose couplings to be used only in case of fire, will be permitted
to make connection with the street main at its own expense upon application to
the Director of Public Works. Maintenance of all fire hydrants within the city
is the responsibility of the city water department. The owner of fire hydrants
located on non-city owned water mains shall pay the city for the maintenance
cost of their hydrants. The applicant shall pay all charges for the hydrant
installation and maintenance as prescribed by the Commission and such
connection shall be made in accordance with the specifications of the Director
of Public Works.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04)
§ 52.09 DAMAGE TO METERS.
   Water meters may be installed upon any premise supplied with water and any
damage to the meter resulting from the failure of the owner or occupant to
properly protect the meter shall be assessed against such owner or occupant. No
person shall tamper with or remove the meter or interfere with the reading of
the meter. A meter bypass will only be allowed for hospitals, schools, nursing
homes or other medical facilities that can demonstrate the need for
uninterrupted service.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.10 WATER MAIN CONSTRUCTION.
   When a water main is constructed in a public right-of-way or easement by
means of financing other than by the developer or subdivider as provided in
Ordinance No. 492, Subdivision Regulations Ordinance (see
Chapter 153), or by charges against the adjacent property owner (voluntary
charges or special assessments) and the property being connected was annexed to
the city after January 1, 1972, the following procedures shall apply:
   (A)   At such time as the owner of adjacent property wishes to make use of
the water main, a connection fee must be paid to the city prior to the issuance
of a permit to connect into the main. The amount of the connection fee shall be
determined annually by resolution of the Commission and shall be increased or
decreased to reflect typical current construction costs reported by the
Director of Public Works.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, FRONTAGE shall be defined as the width
of a platted lot or lots on which development is taking place. For lots
adjacent to two or more streets, FRONTAGE shall be the lesser lot dimension or
one-half the longer dimension, whichever is greater.
   (C)   For unplatted property the lot frontage shall be determined by the
City Manager after consultation with the property owner. Unless approved by the
Commission, the unplatted frontage of a single-family dwelling shall not be
computed to be greater than 125 feet.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
§ 52.11 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   This section prohibits the installation of water wells within the
city, except for lawn irrigation wells.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   LAWN IRRIGATION WELL. Any well drilled solely for the purpose of
taking water for the irrigation of lawns, gardens, shrubbery, trees, or other
landscaping within the city.
      (2)   WELL. A well drilled for the purpose of taking water within the
city.
   (C)   Well construction. No well may be drilled within the city, except for
lawn irrigation wells as defined above. Lawn irrigation wells may not be
constructed so that piping is installed in any structure or building that also
contains water supply piping connected to the municipal water system of the
city. A lawn irrigation well may not be drilled so that the well is capable of
drawing water from any aquifer which the city uses to supply water to the
municipal water supply system of the city.
   (D)   Application fee. A person desiring to drill a lawn irrigation well
shall make application to the City Manager or designee. The application shall
be in writing and shall contain all pertinent information concerning the size,
depth, and location of the proposed well, and a statement of the purpose(s) for
which water will be used. Such application shall be accompanied by a permit fee
in the amount established by resolution of the Commission.
   (E)   Compliance.  Before a permit will be issued, the applicant must
establish that the lawn irrigation well will comply with this chapter and all
other applicable governmental regulations.
   (F)   Hearing.  If an applicant is denied a permit to drill a lawn
irrigation well, the applicant may request a hearing with the Commission. The
Commission shall hold a hearing on the application as it may deem necessary and
may grant or deny issuance of a permit to construct a lawn irrigation well. If
granted, the permit shall contain such reasonable terms and conditions as the
Commission may deem necessary. These requirements may relate to the relative
depth or size of the lawn irrigation well, the use and disposal of water taken,
and the construction and testing requirements for the operation of the well.
   (G)   Regulations.
      (1)   When any permit is granted for drilling a lawn irrigation well, the
well shall be drilled within strict conformity and in compliance with the
regulations contained in the permit. The well shall be subject to inspection at
all reasonable times by the Water Department of the city.
      (2)   If piping interconnections to the city water system are identified
in conjunction with any well, the city has the right to immediately disconnect
the city water supply from the property. The water supply will not be
reinstalled until the interconnection is eliminated.
   (H)   Deposition of waste. No water from lawn irrigation wells within the
city shall be permitted to enter the sewer system of the city unless the water
first passes through a meter approved by the Water Department and installed on
the water well.
   (I)   Sewer charges. Water from lawn irrigation wells deposited in the sewer
system of the city shall be subject to the same charges as are provided for
sewage treatment of water from the city water system.
   (J)   Revocation. Any permit granted under this section shall be revocable
upon the violation of any of the permit requirements. Prior to revoking such
permit, the city shall give to the owner or operator of such lawn irrigation
well at least 30 days' written notice of its intent to revoke the permit. The
notice shall be deemed sufficient if served upon the owner personally, or by
registered mail or regular mail and by posting a copy on the premises where the
lawn irrigation well is located, in the event that personal service is not
made. Use of water shall be discontinued upon revocation of the permit, and the
well shall be capped or otherwise treated as required by applicable law.
   (K)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for and protect the
general public health and welfare of the people of the city.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.12 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Cross connections within the public water supply system are defined as
a connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances through which water of
questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants can enter the public water
supply system.
   (B)   Adoption of rules. The water supply cross connection rules of the
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy being R325.11401 to
R325.11407 of the Michigan Administrative Code and any amendments thereto are
hereby adopted by reference.
   (C)   Inspections. Inspections shall be made of all properties served by the
public water supply where cross connections with the public water supply are
deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re- inspections based on
potential health hazards involved shall be as established by the Water
Department and as approved by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great
Lakes and Energy.
   (D)   Discontinuance of water service. The Water Department is hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue water service after reasonable notice to
any property wherein any connection in violation of this section exists, and to
take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply system. Water service to such
property shall not be restored until the cross connection has been eliminated
in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Posting “Water Unsafe for Drinking.” The potable water supply made
available on the properties served by the public water supply system shall be
protected from possible contamination as specified by the Michigan Department
of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy and by the state and city plumbing
codes. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes
and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a
conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
   (F)   This section does not supersede the state and city plumbing codes, but
is supplementary to them.
   (G) Testing. All testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested
initially upon installation, relocation and/or repair to be sure that the
assembly is working property. Subsequent testing of assemblies shall be on an
annual basis or as required by the city and an in accordance with Michigan
Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy requirements. Only
individuals that hold an active ASSE 5110 approved backflow testing tester’s
certification shall be qualified to perform such testing. Each tester shall
also be approved by the city. That individual(s) shall certify the results of
his or her testing and provide copies of such certification to the city.
(Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04; Am. Ord. 1064, passed 3-8-21) Penalty, see §
52.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.25 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rationale. It is recognized that use of the waterworks system requires
payment of costs of providing the services of the waterworks system. Such costs
include not only the day-to-day operation and maintenance costs, but also the
costs incurred to construct and install the waterworks system components, the
cost to undertake reasonably foreseeable repairs and replacement, and the like.
When the waterworks system components were designed and constructed, they
necessarily needed to be sized to accommodate all foreseeable possible usage of
the waterworks system from a premises so the waterworks system is available to
accommodate such reasonably foreseeable usage. Accordingly, certain charges are
imposed regardless of actual usage, while other charges recognize that those
who actually make more use of the waterworks system should pay more.
   (B)   Establishing rates, fees and charges. Rates, fees and charges for
connection to and use of the waterworks system shall be in amounts established
from time to time by resolution of the City Commission, based on the following:
all users within the city shall pay user rates and charges based on the cost of
providing water service in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A service charge based on water meter size for each meter on the
premises. The service charge shall be the minimum charge to a user, regardless
of actual water or sanitary sewer use.
      (2)   A consumption charge per gallon of water used from the city
waterworks system. This volume or commodity charge shall be in addition to the
service charge.
      (3)   For any premises not currently metered, there shall be a meter
charge to defray the cost of the meter and its installation, which shall be the
current charge established under the water ordinance provisions of the City
Code.
      (4)   A connection fee or fees shall be levied for all connections to the
waterworks system. Such fees shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission. Such fees include the cost of tapping the
main, installing the corporation cock, furnishing and laying the service pipe
to the property line, and installing stop cock and shutoff box.
      (5)   Rates shall be established by resolution of the City Commission and
shall be revised from time to time as required to maintain the fiscal integrity
of the waterworks system, and the same may be revised and taxed by resolution
of the City Commission as may be necessary to produce the amounts required to
pay such charges and expenditures, and provide the funds necessary for the
maintenance of the financial integrity of the waterworks system.
   (C)   Special assessments. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
limiting, modifying or amending any special assessments levied against certain
properties within the city in connection with the construction of sanitary
sewers.
   (D)   Multiple meters. For customers with multiple meters, each meter shall
be treated as a separate customer for calculation of charges.
   (E)   Water service outside the city limits. Rates and charges for water
service outside the city limits shall be determined by multiplying by 1.325 the
rates established in division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Contractual rates. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the city and its
consumers.
   (G)   Billing procedures.
      (1)   When utility charges are not timely paid, it is necessary to re-
bill, to undertake other procedures required by this chapter, to prepare
separate notices and accountings and undertake other tasks that are not needed
if such charges are timely paid. In addition, the other waterworks system users
essentially subsidize the nonpaying or late paying user's use of the waterworks
system. The waterworks system is not established, operated or well-adapted to
provide financing services for its users. Accordingly, charges are made to
compensate the waterworks system for the costs incurred due to untimely
payments.
      (2)   Billing for water charges shall be made monthly and bills shall be
sent to consumers monthly, based on either an actual reading of the meter or a
reasonable estimate of the reading. A late payment charge of 5% of the total
monthly bill shall be added if the bill is not paid by the fifteenth day of the
month. Each subsequent month an additional 1% will be added until payment is
made.
      (3)   The city may collect an administrative fee to offset the cost of
attaching liens and collecting delinquent services charges pursuant to §
52.27(B)(3). Such fee shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Commission, and shall not exceed the cost incurred administering and
collecting such liens.
      (4)   In cases where utilities are included in rent for multi-family
dwellings with 20 or more units, the property owner or their designee will pay
utility charges directly to the city. Property owners who fail to pay said
utility charges by the fifteenth day of the month two times within a 12-month
period will be required to:
         (a)   Make a late payment charge of 10% of the total monthly bill.
Each subsequent month an additional 2% will be added until payment is made; and
         (b)   Place a cash deposit with the Water Department as security for
payment of all water and/or sewer charges. The amount of the deposit shall not
exceed the average of three months of billing attributed to utility services
provided at the owner's property. Should the city use, apply, or retain the
whole or any part of the deposit, the property owner shall replenish the
deposit to its full sum within 15 days after being notified by the city of the
amount due. The property owner shall be in violation of this section if the
amount due is not paid within the required period of time;
         (c)   The successful payment of the utilities under this division for
a period of 24-months after their last delinquent payment will result in the
return of the property owner's security deposit and a return to traditional
enforcement practices under this chapter in compliance with §
52.30; and
         (d)   Nothing herein precludes the city from exhausting any and all
other enforcement methods provided for under in this chapter, including, but
not limited to, disconnection of service.
         (e)   A property owner may appeal this determination by the Water
Department to the City Manager to allow the property owner the opportunity to
prove compliance or hardship relating to such determination.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 865, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 899, passed
7-26-04; Am. Ord. 979, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 9-9-24)
§ 52.26 NO FREE SERVICE.
   Free service shall not be furnished to the city, any person, or any public
or private agency.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04)
§ 52.27 ENFORCEMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Nonpayment of special assessment and/or connection and operation
maintenance, private hydrant and replacement charges. Nonpayment of any special
assessment for water service or connection charges for connection to the
waterworks system, private hydrants and repair charges shall subject the
property owner to a liability for such charges and penalties as provided for a
late or delayed connection.
   (B)   Nonpayment of service charge.
      (1)   Discontinuance of service. If a service charge established pursuant
to this chapter remains delinquent for a period of 45 days, the city may shut-
off and discontinue water and/or sewer service to such premises. Such service
shall not be re-established until all delinquent charges, penalties, and a
charge for the re-establishment of such service shall be paid. The turn-on
charge shall be established by resolution of the City Commission.
      (2)   Collection by litigation. In addition to discontinuing service, the
city shall have the option of collecting all such delinquencies and penalties
due pursuant to this chapter by legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Collection by enforcement of lien. Service, installation,
inspection, use, material, repair and private hydrant charges and fees,
including penalties and interest due thereon shall constitute a lien on the
premises served from the date of such service, unless the city is served with
written notice that a tenant is responsible for such charges. The city official
or officials in charge of the collection annually, not later than May 1 of each
year, shall certify to the tax assessing officer the fact and the amount of
such delinquency. The charge shall then be entered by the tax assessing officer
of the city upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall
be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general taxes
against such premises are collected and tax liens enforced. If the city is
provided with notice in writing, including a copy of the lease of the affected
premises, that a tenant is responsible for the water charge, the city may
require as a condition to rendering water services to such premises a cash
deposit equal to service charges at current rates for three months as security
for the payment of service charges.
   (C)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, a
clearly visible and easily readable provision to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before the date, a shut off
notice will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing, service will be discontinued for nonpayment;
and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his/her bill
shall have the right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for delinquent service have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge to be established by resolution of the City Commission.
   (D)   Nonpayment of service charges for multi-family dwellings. In cases
where utilities are included in rent for multi-family dwellings with 20 or more
units, the property owner or their designee will be responsible for the payment
of all delinquent service charges, penalties, and re-establishment charges
attributable to each individual unit. A property owner's continued failure,
neglect, or refusal to pay such delinquent service charges, penalties, and re-
establishment charges within the time granted for payment shall constitute a
violation of this code and may be grounds to suspend or revoke the property
owner's housing license pursuant to Chapter 152 of this code.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 865, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 899, passed
7-26-04; Am. Ord. 1099, passed 9-9-24)
§ 52.28 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall not be liable for any failure or deficiency in the supply of
water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting off the water to make
necessary repairs or connections or for any other cause.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
§ 52.29 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The inspectors, designated agents and/or employees of the Division of Public
Works shall have power and authority at all reasonable hours to enter upon any
premises where water is furnished from the city waterworks system for the
purpose of reading meters or the inspection of all pipes and fixtures connected
with said waterworks system, and they shall have authority to require any
defective pipes or fixtures to be repaired, removed or replaced at the water
customer’s expense if such fixtures are not in compliance with the provisions
of the regulations pertaining to the waterworks system. Any person refusing or
neglecting to make such repairs shall be in violation of this chapter and shall
constitute grounds for disconnecting water service to the premises until such
requirements have been satisfactorily met. On request, the owner, lessees, or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system(s) on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of a cross connection.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 1064, passed 3-8-21) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 LIEN; SECURITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The city shall have, as security for the collection of any water rates
or any assessments, charges, fees, materials or rentals due or to become due
for the use or consumption of water supplied to any property, a lien upon the
property to which such water was supplied. The lien shall become effective
immediately upon the distribution of the water to the property supplied, but
shall not be enforceable for more than three years. The lien may be enforced by
the city in the manner prescribed by the general laws of this state providing
for the enforcement of tax liens, provided that the provisions of this section
shall not be construed as preventing the city from suing such owner by action
in the name of the city for the amount due to it, or from preventing the city
from cutting off such water services from the property at any time such water
charges have not been paid as subject to the provisions of division (E) of this
section.
   (B)   The Water Department will apply interest to the deposit accounts of
all users with security deposits over $50. For deposits exceeding $50, the
federal funds rate per annum as set from time to time shall be credited to the
customer's account, to be computed annually on all sums that have remained on
deposit for six months and to be credited semi-annually. Accrued interest due
shall be paid at the time the deposit is refunded.
   (C)   When a tenant is responsible for payment of water and/or sewer bills
and a lease has been executed containing a provision that the lessor not be
liable for water and/or sewer charges, it shall be the responsibility of the
lessor to notify the Water Department office with an appropriate affidavit
signed by both parties requesting a waiver of lien.
      (1)   The affidavit must state: "The tenant is totally responsible for
all charges for water and/or sewer service furnished to the premises by the
City of Mount Pleasant. The tenant understands that no service shall be
commenced to the above address until there has been deposited with the city a
sum as set forth by resolution adopted by the Commission, and a copy of the
lease including this affidavit furnished to the city. The tenant further
understands that payment of charges for water and/or sewer service may be
enforced by discontinuing the services to the premises." The affidavit shall
state the expiration date of the lease.
      (2)   Upon receipt of notification, the city will waive its lien pursuant
to Public Act 178 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. § 123.165, as amended, and the water
and sewer bills to the lessee within the term of the lease shall not be a lien
against the property. Upon expiration of the lease, a new affidavit must be
submitted: without such notification, water and/or sewer bills will be a lien
against the property served regardless of any lease provisions between the
parties. A 20-day notice shall be given to the city by the lessor of any
cancellation, change or termination of the lease. The water and/or sewer bills
shall be in the name of the premises except as provided by this section
concerning tenants.
   (D)   When the Water Department has received and approved a request from the
property owner for a waiver of lien, a cash deposit will be required of the
lessee as security for payment of all water and/or sewer charges. The amount of
the deposit shall be set by resolution of the Commission.
   (E)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a shut off
notice will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing, service will be discontinued for nonpayment;
and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his/her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he/she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his/her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his/her complaint and contentions to the city official in
charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for delinquent service have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge to be established by resolution of the Commission.
   (F)   In cases where utilities are included in rent for multi-family
dwellings with 20 or more units, the property owner or their designee will be
responsible for the payment of all delinquent service charges, penalties, and
re-establishment charges attributable to each individual unit. A property
owner's continued failure, neglect, or refusal to pay such delinquent service
charges, penalties, and re-establishment charges within the time granted for
payment shall constitute a violation of this code and may be grounds to suspend
or revoke the property owner's housing license pursuant to Chapter 152 of this
code.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04; Am. Ord. 1099, passed
9-9-24)
§ 52.31 WATER FUNDS; RECORDS.
   All water funds shall be kept separate from other funds of the city, and an
accurate separate record shall be kept of all receipts and disbursements.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
§ 52.32 DIRECTOR'S AUTHORITY AS TO EMERGENCY USE OF WATER.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the discretion to restrict the
volume of water from the distribution system of the city if the public's
health, safety and general welfare are likely to be endangered by prescribing
rules and regulations to conserve the water supply during such emergency.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 899, passed 7-26-04)
§ 52.33 COMMISSION MAY ADOPT REGULATIONS.
   The Commission shall from time to time adopt such regulations for the
operation and use of the water system and the supplying of water to consumers
as the Commission shall deem expedient and necessary, and such regulations when
adopted shall be and become a part of this chapter and the penalties prescribed
shall apply to the violation of any such regulations.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
§ 52.34 ADDITION OF SUBSTANCES TO WATER SUPPLY.
   In order to ensure the safety of Mt. Pleasant public water, it shall be
unlawful and a public nuisance for any person, agent, or water treatment system
to add any substance to the public water supply for the purpose of affecting
the physical or mental functions of any person, except to make the water safe
or potable such as in the use of chlorine, unless the substance meets the
following criteria:
   (A)   The substance must have been specifically approved by the U.S. FDA for
safety and effectiveness with a safety margin protective for all adverse health
and cosmetic effects.
   (B)   The substance, when measured at maximum use levels, must contain no
contaminants or concentrations exceeding U.S. Maximum Contaminant Level Goals
or Michigan Public Health Goals, whichever is more protective.
(Ord. –, passed 11-4-04)
Cross-reference:
   Deposit of unwholesome substances, §
96.06
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 96
§ 52.35 FLUORIDATION.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
52.34, the Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to provide the
means and to proceed with the introduction of sufficient sodium fluoride to
raise the total fluoride concentration in the finished public water supply to
approximately one part of fluoride to every 1,000,000 parts of water being
distributed in the public water supply system of the city, and the Commission
by resolution shall have the authority, from time to time, to change the
proportions thereof.
   (B)   In no event shall the amount of total fluoride concentration in the
finished public water supply exceed the limits established by applicable state
and federal regulations.
(Ord. –, passed 11-8-05)
GEOTHERMAL SYSTEMS
§ 52.51 GEOTHERMAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare by protecting groundwater from pollution or
depletion resulting from construction, reconstruction, repair, or abandonment
of geothermal systems. An open loop geothermal system that penetrates and/or
draws water from an aquifer can deplete or pollute groundwater. An improperly
constructed or maintained closed loop geothermal system can also pollute the
city's groundwater.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANNULAR SPACE.  The space between the casing or well screen and the wall
of the borehole, or between drilling pipe and casing, or between two separate
strings of casing.
      AQUIFER. A subsurface water-bearing layer of soil, sand, gravel, or rock
that will yield usable quantities of water to a well.
      BOREHOLE. A hole drilled or bored into the earth, usually for exploratory
or economic purposes; a hole into which casing, screen, and other materials may
be installed to construct a well.
      CASING. An impervious, durable pipe placed in a borehole to prevent the
walls of the borehole from caving, and to seal off surface drainage or
undesirable water, gas, or other fluids and prevent entrance into a well.
      CLOSED HORIZONTAL LOOP GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A geothermal system that
consists of the following basic elements: underground loops of piping; heat
transfer fluid; a heat pump, and an air distribution system. An opening is made
in the earth. A series of pipes are installed into the opening  and connected
to a heat exchange system in the building. The pipes form a "closed loop" and
are filled with a heat transfer fluid. The fluid is circulated through the
piping from the opening into the heat exchanger and back. The system functions
in the same manner as the open loop system except there is no pumping of
groundwater. A horizontal closed loop geothermal system shall be no more than
20 feet deep.
      CLOSED VERTICAL LOOP GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM.  A geothermal system in which a
borehole extends beneath the surface. Pipes are installed with U-bends at the
bottom of the borehole. The pipes are connected to the heat exchanger and heat
transfer fluid is circulated through the pipes.
      DRINKING WATER. Water which is intended for human consumption and other
domestic uses, and is considered to be free of harmful chemicals and disease-
causing microorganisms.
      GEOTHERMAL BOREHOLE. A hole drilled or bored into the earth into which
piping is inserted for use in a geothermal system.
      GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A system for heating and/or cooling buildings using
the earth's thermal properties in conjunction with electricity.
      GROUNDWATER. Water beneath the earth's surface that is located between
saturated soil and rock that supplies wells and springs.
      GROUT. A low permeability material that is emplaced in the space between
the wall of the borehole and the casing of a well end, or placed in the annular
space of the borehole. The emplacement of grout is to prevent the migration of
water or fluid contaminants into and through the borehole. Grout shall consist
of neat cement, high solids bentonite slurry, or hydrated bentonite chips.
      HEAT TRANSFER FLUID. Any liquid used especially for the purpose of
transferring thermal energy from the heat source to another location.
      OPEN LOOP GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM. A geothermal system in which groundwater is
pumped from a well into a heat exchanger located in a surface building. The
water drawn from the earth is then pumped back into the aquifer through a
different well or in some cases the same well (commonly referred to as "re-
injection"). Alternatively, the groundwater could be discharged to a surface
water body (also known as "pump and dump"). In the heating mode, cooler water
is returned to the earth, while in the cooling mode, warmer water is returned
to the surface water body.
      PERMEABILITY. The propensity of a material to allow fluid to move through
its pores or interstices. Permeability is an important soil parameter when flow
of water through soil or rock is a matter of concern.
      SEPARATION/ISOLATION DISTANCES. The distance of a source of contamination
from a surface drinking water source, a groundwater source supply well, or any
type of borehole.
      WATER SUPPLY WELL. A well used for extracting groundwater for human
consumption.
      WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, driven, dug, bored, augured,
jetted, washed, or otherwise constructed for the purpose of exploring for
groundwater, monitoring groundwater, utilizing the geothermal properties of the
ground, or extracting water from or injecting water into an aquifer. WELL does
not include an open ditch, drain tiles, an excavation made for obtaining or
prospecting for oil, natural gas, minerals, or products mined or quarried,
lateral geothermal heat exchange systems less than 20 feet deep, nor temporary
dewatering wells such as those used during the construction of subsurface
facilities only for the duration of the construction.
   (C)   Permit required. 
      (1)   No person shall:
         (a)   Construct or install a geothermal system;
         (b)   Dig, bore, drill, replace, modify, repair, or destroy a well
that is, is intended to be, or was part of a geothermal system; or
         (c)   Make any other excavation that may intersect groundwater without
first obtaining a permit from the city and, for construction of a well, the
Central Michigan Health Department.
      (2)   A permit is required for any closed loop horizontal and closed loop
vertical geothermal system. (No permit shall be issued for any open loop
geothermal system because such systems are prohibited by division (I) below.)
   (D)   Application procedure. Applications for city permits shall be made to
the city DPW on approved forms and shall contain the information required on
the form. Permits shall be issued for the particular parcel of property on
which the geothermal system is to be constructed and/or installed. The
application may be made by the property owner, a representative of the property
owner authorized in writing by the property owner such as a tenant authorized
under a lease, or the well driller, and shall be accompanied by the required
filing fee. The locations of the loops that are part of any closed loop
geothermal system shall be completely located within the property's boundaries.
   (E)   Well permits. All wells must be permitted by the Central Michigan
District Health Department (or its successor agency) and must comply with the
Michigan Water Well Construction and Pump Installation Code, Groundwater
Quality Control, Part 127, 1978 P.A. 368, as amended, and all rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, or any replacing statute and
regulations. A site plan showing the generally proposed location, number of
wells, and location of loops must be submitted to the City Engineer for review
and approval. The plan must include the calculated, anticipated volume of grout
that will be needed.
   (F)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permits may be issued only for closed loop geothermal systems.
      (2)   Boreholes shall be drilled by Michigan registered/licensed water
well drillers.
      (3)   The property owner shall maintain a well log of the borehole and
"as built" plans showing the location and specifications of closed loop
geothermal system components.
      (4)   Borehole piping shall be high density polyethylene as specified in
International Ground Source Heat Pump Association standards for closed loop
heat pumps.
      (5)   The annular space of the boreholes must be grouted for the full
depth of the borehole using high solid bentonite grout.
      (6)   Heat transfer fluids must be Environol 2000 manufactured by Water
Furnace Company or another non-toxic, environmentally safe material approved by
the City Engineer.
   (G)   Permit fee. The geothermal system permit fee shall be in the amount
established from time-to-time by resolution of the City Commission and shall be
paid when the application is filed.
   (H)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   The City Engineer may revoke a permit if:
         (a)   Any action or any geothermal system violates a provision of this
section; or
         (b)   There are factual inaccuracies in a permit application or the
documents supporting it.
      (2)   The City Engineer shall notify the property owner and occupant in
writing of a permit revocation.
      (3)    The property owner or occupant may appeal a revocation to the City
Manager who shall hold a hearing on that revocation to allow the appellant to
prove the geothermal system complies with this section or that the statements
in the application and supporting documents are true. Further appeals shall be
to the Isabella County Circuit Court.
      (4)   When a permit is revoked, the property owner shall immediately
abandon the geothermal system as required by this section. Except in cases
where the City Engineer reasonably determines that groundwater contamination is
an imminent risk, the obligation to abandon the geothermal system after
revocation shall be stayed while any appeal is pending.
   (I)   Open loop systems prohibited. Open loop geothermal systems are
prohibited.
   (J)   System testing. Pipes for geothermal system permitted under this
section shall be tested hydrostatically at one and one-half times the maximum
system design pressure, but not less than 100 psi (689 kPa), for a duration of
not less than 15 minutes. All geothermal systems must be pressure checked by a
licensed geothermal system contractor every five years from the date of its
initial successful test. Results shall be filed with the City Engineer. If the
test results show the system fails to meet these requirements, system shutdown
and repairs shall be made at the direction of the City Engineer.
   (K)   System abandonment. Abandonment of a geothermal system shall comply
with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to abandonment of water supply
wells. Heat transfer fluid must be removed by displacement with grout. The top
of the borehole must be uncovered and capped with grout.
   (L)   Conflict with other regulations. If any provision of this section
conflicts with any applicable state or federal law, rule or regulation which is
more strict or which is determined to preempt a provision of this section, the
applicable state or federal requirement shall control.
   (M)   Violation and penalty. Regardless of §
52.99 which applies to violations of other sections of this chapter, any
violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a municipal civil
infraction punishable by a civil fine of up to $5,000. Each day of that a
condition exists that violates any provision of this sections shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 952, passed 8-24-09)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be held
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and prosecuted in accordance with
the Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The fine for violation of a
municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be $50; the second
violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent violation within any one
calendar year, $250. In addition, the city shall be reimbursed for any costs
incurred by the city in causing any work to be performed which the respondent
has failed to perform. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 774, passed 8-28-95)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 53: RESERVED
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
54.01   Introduction
   
54.02   General definitions
   
54.03   Permit applications for single-family and two-family dwellings
   
54.04   Pre-application procedure and waiver requests for development and
redevelopment projects.
   
54.05   Application submittal requirements for development and redevelopment
projects
   
54.06   Permit application review for development and redevelopment projects
   
54.07   Permittee compliance during and after construction
   
54.08   Inspection requirements
   
54.09   Minimum design requirements for storm drainage systems
   
54.10   Variations from design requirements
   
54.11   Appeals
   
54.12   Penalties and enforcement
   
54.13   Other permits and approvals
§ 54.01 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   This chapter has been prepared as a collaborative effort by the
Isabella County Drain Commissioner’s office and the municipal entities of the
Charter Township of Union, Chippewa Township, and the City of Mt. Pleasant.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish general compliance
requirements for storm water management practices. This chapter establishes the
framework through which detention and/or retention measures will be implemented
and details the process that must be followed to gain approval for new
developments and redevelopment drainage systems and maintenance of storm water
systems. Except as provided in §
54.03, the standards, procedures, and permitting requirements set forth in this
chapter apply only to development and redevelopment projects (as defined
below), and not to projects involving the construction of one-family or two-
family dwellings, or to projects involving additions, extensions, or
modifications to such dwellings or the parcels on which they are located.
   (C)   The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish, among others, the
following objectives:
      (1)   Reduce artificially induced flood damage;
      (2)   Minimize increased storm water runoff rates and volumes from
identified new land development;
      (3)   Minimize the deterioration of existing watercourses, culverts and
bridges, and other structures;
      (4)   Encourage water recharge into the ground where geologically
favorable conditions exist;
      (5)   Reduce non-point source pollution;
      (6)   Maintain the integrity of stream channels for their biological
functions, as well as for drainage and other purposes;
      (7)   Minimize the impact of development upon stream bank and streambed
stability;
      (8)   Reduce erosion from development or construction projects;
      (9)   Preserve and protect water supply facilities and water resources by
means of controlling increased flood discharges, stream erosion, and runoff
pollution;
      (10)   Reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and
non-point source pollution, wherever practicable, from lands that were
developed without storm water management controls meeting the purposes and
standards of this chapter; and
      (11)   Reduce the adverse impact of changing land use on water bodies
and, to that end, this chapter establishes minimum standards to protect water
bodies from degradation resulting from changing land use where there are
insufficient storm water management controls.
   (D)   This chapter covers the following topics:
      (1)   A summary of the procedures to be followed under this chapter,
including requirements, review procedures, inspection requirements and other
agency requirements;
      (2)   A description of design requirements and engineering calculations;
and
      (3)   A description of minimum design criteria and rules to be followed
for design of new drainage systems, and the maintenance of those systems.
(Ord. 992. Passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION (“AHJ”). An AHJ is a political subdivision or
other entity (i.e., a city, township, or the Isabella County Drain
Commissioner) authorized to issue a storm water permit for a given project. Any
political subdivision or entity with infrastructure that is potentially
affected by water runoff from the subject site shall be an AHJ with respect to
the project, and a separate storm water permit shall be required from each. A
property owner in the city wishing to conduct activities subject to the
requirements in this chapter shall first contact the City of Mt. Pleasant’s
Department of Public Works, which shall administer the permitting requirements
of this chapter on behalf of the city and refer the applicant to all other
appropriate AHJs. When an AHJ other than the city is exercising jurisdiction
over a project located in the city, the terms of this chapter adopted by that
particular AHJ shall apply.
   ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE. The restricted discharge from a site after development
or redevelopment as calculated in accordance with this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of surface water from a flood that has a
1% chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year. The base flood
elevation is shown on Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs).
   BASE FLOODPLAIN. The area inundated by the base flood.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). A practice, or combination of practices
and design criteria that comply with the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality’s Guidebook of BMPs for Michigan Watersheds, (including, but not
limited to minimizing storm water runoff and preventing the discharge of
pollutants into storm water) as determined by the AHJ and/or designer.
   BIO-RETENTION AREAS. Areas designed to use soil and plant material to mimic
natural processes and store, filter and infiltrate storm water into the ground.
These areas may be used anywhere to achieve a degree of storm water treatment.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 USC §§ 1251 et
seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
   CONDUIT. Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water whether open or closed.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE STORM WATER RUNOFF. Storm water runoff from a development
site following an earth change.
   CONTROL ELEVATION. Contour lines and points of predetermined elevation used
to denote a detention storm area on a plat or site drawing.
   DESIGNEE. The engineer formally designated by the AHJ or its appointee to
act as its engineer.
   DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. Design professional responsible for the design of a
drainage plan, who must have appropriate qualifications and licenses to produce
types of plans and perform the types of calculations required under this
chapter.
   DETENTION. The capture of storm water and release over a given period of
time through an outlet structure at a controlled rate.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of storm water to a prescribed maximum rate and to concurrently detain the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of storm water in
storage basin, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks, open
space, or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with the
rate of drainage regulated by appropriately installed devices.
   DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT. The installation or construction of impervious
surfaces on a development site that requires, pursuant to state law or local
ordinance, the AHJ’s approval of a site plan, plat, site condominium, special
land use, planned unit development, or the erection of buildings or structures;
provided, however, the terms DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT do not refer to
individual one-family or two-family dwellings or projects involving the
construction of such a dwelling, or to projects involving an addition,
extension or modification to such dwelling or the parcel on which it is located
(since projects requiring a building permit on the site of a one-family or two-
family dwelling are subject to the requirements in § 54.03 of this chapter).
   DEVELOPER. Any person proposing or implementing the development of land.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any land that is being or has been developed, or that a
developer proposes for development.
   DISCHARGE. The release or outflow of water from any source.
   DISCHARGER. Any person or entity that directly or indirectly discharges
storm water from any property. DISCHARGER also means any employee, officer,
director, partner, contractor, or other person who participates in, or is
legally or factually responsible for, any act or omission that is or results in
a violation of this chapter.
   DRAIN. Any drain as defined in the Drain Code of 1956, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§
280.1 et seq., other than an established county or intercounty drain.
   DRAINAGE. The collection, conveyance, or discharge or groundwater and/or
surface water.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area from which storm water runoff is conveyed to a
single outlet (i.e., a watershed or catchment area).
   DRAINAGE WAY. The area within which surface water or groundwater is carried
from one part of the lot or parcel to another part of the lot or parcel or to
adjacent land.
   DRAIN COMMISSIONER. The Isabella County Drain Commissioner or his or her
designee.
   DRAINAGE DISTRICT/WATERSHED. All drainage areas contributing surface water
runoff upstream of a discharge location of the proposed development.
   DRAINS (PRIVATELY-OWNED). Those drains under private ownership and not under
the control of the Drain Commissioner’s office or any other public entity.
   EARTH CHANGE. Any human activity, which removes groundcover, changes the
slope or contours of the land, or exposes the soil surface to the actions of
wind and rain. EARTH CHANGE includes, but is not limited to, any excavating,
surface grading, filling, landscaping, or removal of vegetative roots.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by action of
wind, water, gravity or a combination thereof.
   EXCESS STORM WATER RUNOFF. The volume and rate of flow of storm water
discharged from a drainage area, which is in excess of the allowable drainage.
   EXEMPTED DISCHARGES. Discharges other than storm water.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency of the federal
government charged with emergency management.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of water
bodies or the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water runoff from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by flood waters
from any source.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate the risk of
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, or structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of any watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved to carry and discharge a base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water service elevation more than one-tenth of a foot due to the
loss of flood conveyance or storage.
   FLOODWAY OPENING. Any opening of a solid wall such as a window or door,
through which floodwaters could penetrate within the floodway.
   FOREBAY. These are manmade surface waters used as pretreatment systems. They
are designed to temporarily store the first flush of runoff from a storm event
and provide for pollutant removal through settling. A FOREBAY or other
pretreatment system is recommended at each inlet to a detention system or
retention basin.
   FOREBAY OUTLETS. Outlets that convey flow from a forebay into detention
systems and retention basins. They must include a flow restrictor for
restricted flow and a weir for unrestricted flow.
   FREEBOARD. A volume of additional storage designed with a detention basin. A
safety factor within a storm water detention system that is based on a minimum
of one foot detention volume above the proposed high water elevation of a
detention pond. This volume provides additional storm water detention in the
event that a storm exceeds the design capacity.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, and stockpiling of soil or any
combination thereof and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   GREEN ROOFS. The roofs are constructed of a lightweight soil medium, layered
over a waterproofing membrane. The soil is planted with a specialized mix of
plants that can thrive in a roof environment. These types of roofs are also
known as VEGETATED ROOF COVERS, ECO-ROOFS, or NATURE ROOFS.
   ICDC. The Isabella County Drain Commissioner.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method or means for conveying an illicit discharge
into water bodies or the county’s storm water system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to water bodies that does not consist
entirely of storm water, discharges pursuant to the terms of an NPDES permit,
or exempted discharges as defined in this chapter.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surface that does not allow storm water runoff to
percolate into the ground.
   INFILTRATION. A process whereby precipitation or groundwater seeps into the
ground.
   INFILTRATION TRENCH. Also known as a PERCOLATION TRENCH, is a shallow
excavated trench, filled with gravel or crushed stone, designed to infiltrate
storm water through permeable soils into the ground water aquifer. This type of
trench is not considered a preferred means of discharging storm water.
   LEACHING BASIN. A catch basin that is fabricated of barrel and riser
sections that permit runoff into the ground. This type of basin is not
considered an effective means of controlling and treating storm water runoff.
   LOCAL BOARD OF APPEALS. The appeals board, if any, designated by the AHJ to
review appeals under this chapter. When the city acts as AHJ, the local board
of appeals shall be the city’s Building Board of Appeals.
   LOW-IMPACT DESIGN (LID). A storm water management strategy that aims to
control water, both rainfall and storm water runoff, at the source.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement
area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure
is  not built so as to render the structure in violation of requirements.
   MDEQ. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MINIMAL FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus one
foot at any given location. That elevation which provides reliable flood
protection above the base flood protection, no less than one foot.
   NPDES. The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   NREPA. The Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451, of
1994, as amended.
   O & M PLAN. An operations and maintenance plan, which describes resource
organization, responsibilities, policies, and general procedures.
   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building used exclusively for one-family occupancy.
   OVERLAND FLOW-WAY. Surface area that conveys a concentrated flow of storm
water runoff.
   OWNER. Any person or entity having legal or equitable title to property, or
any person or entity having or exercising care, custody, or control over any
property.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum volume of discharge of storm water runoff at a
given location.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of storm water runoff at a given
location.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality, or any other legal entity.
   PERVIOUS PAVEMENT. A porous surface that allows rainwater to pass directly
through into the soil naturally.
   POLLUTANT. A substance discharged, which includes, but is not limited to,
the following. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, vehicle fluids, yard wastes,
animal wastes, agricultural waste products, sediment, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological wastes,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt, and industrial, municipal, commercial and agricultural waste, or any
other contaminant or other substance defined as a pollutant under the Clean
Water Act.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to property, or
any person having or exercising care, custody, or control over any property.
   RAIN GARDEN. A landscaping feature planted with perennial native plants. It
is a bowl-shaped or saucer-shaped garden designed to absorb storm water runoff
from impervious surfaces such as roofs and parking lots.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Altering, improving, or otherwise changing the use of an
existing developed property, including, but not limited to, roof, pavement, or
any other impervious surface. Ordinary maintenance of impervious surfaces to
address the effects of weathering (including, for example, pot hole repair or
overlays, crack seal, and seal coating to address pavement defects) does not
constitute REDEVELOPMENT. However, crush and shape projects affecting pavement
base materials shall constitute REDEVELOPMENT.
   RETENTION. The capture and containment of storm water until it infiltrates
the soil and/or evaporates.
   SOIL EROSION. The stripping of soil and weathered rock from land, creating
sediment for transportation by water, wind or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
   STATE OF MICHIGAN WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. All applicable state rules,
regulations, and laws pertaining to water quality, including the provisions of
Section 3106 of Part 31 of 1994 PA 451, as amended.
   STORM DRAIN. A system of open or enclosed conduits and appurtenant
structures intended to convey or manage storm water runoff, groundwater and
drainage.
   STORM WATER PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   STORM WATER CONTROL PLAN. Written narratives, specifications, drawings,
sketches, written standards, operating procedures, or any combination of these.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The water from a rain storm, snow melt or other natural
event or process, which flows over the surface of the ground or is collected in
a drainage system.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF FACILITY. The method, structure, area, system, or other
equipment or measures designed to receive, control, store, or convey storm
water.
   STREAM. A river, stream or creek, which may or may not be serving as a
drain, or any other water body that has definite banks, a bed, and visible
evidence of a continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
   TAP-IN. Out-letting to an open or closed county drain or municipal storm
sewer.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION. The elapsed time for storm water runoff to flow from
the most distant point in a drainage area to the outlet or other predetermined
point.
   TWENTY-FIVE YEAR, 24-FOUR HOUR STORM EVENT. The maximum 24-hour
precipitation event with a probable recurrence interval of once in 25 years, as
defined by the National Weather Service.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building used exclusively for the occupancy of two
individual families living independently of each other.
   UNDERGROUND DETENTION SYSTEMS. An underground system consisting of one or
more underground pipes or structures that are designed to provide the required
volumes for storage for a development project.
   UPLAND AREA. Land located in the upper portion of a watershed whose surface
drainage flows toward the area being considered for development.
   URBANIZATION. The development, change, or improvement of any parcel of land
consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational, or public utility purposes.
   USACE. The United States Army Corps of Engineers, which is responsible for
investigating, developing and maintaining the nation’s water and related
resources.
   VEGETATED SWALES. Channels that are broad, shallow, and lined with
vegetation that slow and filter storm water runoff and promote infiltration.
   WATER BODY. A river, lake, stream, creek or other watercourse or wetlands.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial stream, river, creek, channel, ditch,
canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, street, roadway,
swale, or wash in which water flows in a definite direction, either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. A region draining into a water body.
   WEIR. A low dam built to raise the level of water upstream and regulate its
flow. The flow is frequently controlled by a notch through which water flows.
WEIR control may be a depression in the side of a tank, reservoir, or channel,
or it may be an overflow dam or other similar structure.
   WETLANDS. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support wetland vegetation or aquatic life as defined by
the DEQ.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-9-17)
§ 54.03 PERMIT APPLICATIONS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Owners shall apply for and obtain storm water permits before
commencing any project that requires a building permit on the site (or proposed
site) of a single-family or two-family dwelling, or any project that involves
an earth change of more than 200 square feet. Projects where there are no earth
changes, such as re-roof, new windows, siding, or the like shall be exempt from
the storm water permit requirement, even if a building permit is required.
However, property owners and/or constructors undertaking such projects shall
still be responsible for managing storm water runoff from their projects.
   (B)   To apply for a storm water permit, the owner shall submit a drawing to
the AHJ, showing why the project will not adversely affect neighboring
properties or public infrastructure (e.g., lack of substantial change in
impervious surfaces, natural runoff into a storm water drain or water body with
sufficient capacity for receipt, grading alterations, or installation of a
retention system). Services of a design professional are not required. The AHJ
shall approve a storm water permit upon determining that adverse effects are
not likely to occur. If it determines that adverse effects are likely to occur,
the AHJ may require, as a condition of granting a permit, that the applicant:
(1) submit a suitable plan to manage storm water by maintaining storm water on
the property, or by directing its flow so as not to adversely affect the
neighboring property; and (2) enter a maintenance agreement, as described in §
54.06(O) of this chapter, requiring ongoing maintenance of the system to be
installed.
   (C)   The governing body in the AHJ’s jurisdiction may establish a fee for
applications submitted under this section.
   (D)   Violations of this section are subject to the remedies provided in §
54.12.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-9-17)
§ 54.04 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND WAIVER REQUESTS FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Request for a waiver. Before preparing a permit application for a
development or redevelopment project in accordance with the requirements in §
54.05, an owner/developer may submit a written request to the AHJ for a waiver
of the storm water design standards specified in this chapter. To be accepted,
the waiver must comply with all requirements in either division (1) or division
(2) below.
      (1)   It is for redevelopment of a parking lot within the city, the city
is the AHJ, and it includes a written statement and drawing that together show
each of the following about the project:
         (a)   It entails redevelopment of the parking lot only within the
footprint of the existing parking lot less than 2,600 square feet in size, and
it will not increase the total area of impervious surfaces on the property;
         (b)   It will not include the construction of any new structures or
facilities, and will not impact any existing structures or facilities;
         (c)   It will not increase storm water runoff onto adjacent property
or into the city storm water system;
         (d)   It will not require a change to the storm water management
drainage system;
         (e)   It will not accept additional storm water from adjoining
properties, buildings, or other structures;
         (f)   It will not eliminate or reduce the volume or effectiveness of
existing storm water structures, facilities, or measures;
         (g)   If regrading is involved, it will not result in a change of
drainage pattern; and
         (h)   It is not located within the A-17A drainage district or Upton
drain area, as shown in the drawing labeled “Area Boundary Where no Parking Lot
is Exempt from Storm Water Ordinance,” dated 9-20-2017, prepared by and on file
with the Division of Public Works Engineering Department (an exhibit attached
to Ordinance No. 1028, passed 10-9-17, that is hereby incorporated by reference
as part of §
54.04(A)(1)).
         The application shall be accompanied by a permit fee in an amount
established by a resolution of the City Commission.
      (2)   The waiver application includes a written statement and a drawing
that together show that no retention measures of any type are needed in order
to prevent adverse effects on neighboring properties or public infrastructure,
because:
         (a)   There will be no more than a de minimis increase in impervious
surfaces on the site;
         (b)   There will be no increase or only a de minimis increase in storm
water resulting from the project; and
         (c)   The amount of discharge at the project site has historically
been within the levels permitted under this chapter.
   (B)   Waiver approval. If the waiver satisfactorily meets one the criteria
in division (A), the AHJ shall waive all further requirements under this
chapter and grant a storm water permit. However, even when issuing a waiver,
the AHJ may require a maintenance agreement under this chapter if the AHJ
determines, in its discretion, that such agreement is needed to ensure the
future protection of public infrastructure.
   (C)   Pre-application meeting. It is highly recommended that the owner/
developer and the design engineer meet with the AHJ and/or its designee, and
applicable utility companies, where the project is proposed prior to submitting
a permit application. The intention of these meetings is to obtain uniform
direction and communication to minimize misdirection of early construction and
minimize costs to proprietors, developers, and consultants.
   (D)   Permit application submittal. The owner/developer or the engineer of
record on behalf of the owner/developer shall submit permit applications to the
AHJ. Application for a permit shall be made prior to the start of any work on
the proposed development or redevelopment requiring a permit under this
chapter. Soil test borings, vegetative cutting solely for land surveys,
percolation tests, and normal maintenance shall not be considered a start of
work under this chapter.
   (E)   Sequential applications for phased projects. For projects on a site
which are so large or complex that a plan encompassing all phases of the
project cannot reasonably be prepared prior to initial work, sequential
applications on major construction activities may be allowed. Requests for
sequential applications shall be approved by the AHJ prior to submittal of the
initial permit application.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 10-9-17)
§ 54.05 APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS.
   As part of the permit application, the owner/developer or design
professional shall submit two sets of storm water control (SWC) plans, two sets
of calculations (made pursuant to the calculation formulas attached in the
Appendix to Ordinance No. 992, passed 1-12-15 - a copy of the ordinance is
available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk during normal
business hours), and any other supporting information to the AHJ or designee.
The plans and calculations shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.
The checklist, design requirements, and design that will be used during the
review process of the drainage construction plans are established by this
chapter. The application materials shall include the following items:
   (A)   An application fee in an amount established by the governing body in
the AHJ’s jurisdiction. The application fee may vary based on the size and
nature of the proposed development;
   (B)   A performance bond equal to 25% of the estimated construction costs of
the proposed storm water control facilities, as estimated by the owner/
developer or design professional and found to be reasonable by the AHJ;
   (C)   The location of the development site and water bodies that will
receive storm water runoff;
   (D)   The existing and proposed topography of the development site,
including the alignment and boundary of the natural drainage courses, with
contours having a maximum interval of one foot. The project location shall be
delineated on the pertinent Isabella County soil map;
   (E)   Baseline datum to be established, assumed datum are not allowed.
Contact the AHJ for datum information;
   (F)   The development tributary area to each point of discharge from the
development;
   (G)   Calculations for the final peak discharge rates;
   (H)   Calculations for any facility’s or structure’s size and configuration;
   (I)   A drawing showing all proposed storm water runoff facilities with
existing and final grades;
   (J)   The sizes and locations of upstream and downstream culverts serving
the major drainage routes flowing into and out of the development site. Any
significant off-site and on-site drainage outlet restrictions other than
culverts should be noted on the drainage map;
   (K)   An implementation plan for construction and inspection of all storm
water runoff facilities necessary to the overall drainage plan, including a
schedule of the estimated dates of completing construction of the storm water
runoff facilities shown on the plan and an identification of the proposed
inspection procedures to ensure that the storm water runoff facilities are
constructed in accordance with the approved drainage plan;
   (L)   A plan to ensure the effective control of construction site storm
water runoff and sediment track-out onto roadways;
   (M)   Drawings, profiles, and specifications for the construction of the
storm water runoff facilities reasonably necessary to ensure that storm water
runoff will be drained, stored, or otherwise controlled in accordance with this
chapter;
   (N)   The name and place of employment of the design professional that will
inspect final construction of the storm water runoff facilities;
   (O)   A maintenance agreement, in form and substance acceptable to the AHJ,
shall be required for ensuring maintenance of any privately owned storm water
runoff facilities. The maintenance agreement shall include the owner/developer’
   (P)   Any other information necessary for the AHJ to verify that the
drainage plan complies with this chapter. All design information must be
compatible for conversion to the AHJ’s Geographic Information System.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.06 PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW FOR DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   General review procedure. The AHJ or designee will review all plans,
calculations, and other information for compliance with the design requirements
in §
54.09 of this chapter. All materials will be reviewed for completeness.
Calculations will be checked. The minimum design requirements as outlined in
this chapter will be used as a reference. The drainage plan checklist will be
reviewed. The AHJ shall approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove an
application within 21 days. The review period begins upon the receipt of a
completed application, plan and fees. Copies of the approval, approval with
conditions, or disapproval will be provided by the AHJ. The AHJ and/or the
AHJ’s agent or designee does not accept any liability for the design or
function of the storm water collection and retention/detention system. The
review is for compliance with the storm water management standards in this
chapter only. It is the registered design professional that has signed and
sealed the final plans and/or the applicant’s responsibility for the
functionality of the design.
   (B)   Approval or approval with conditions. Upon a determination by the AHJ
or designee that the permit application has met or obtained a waiver of the
design requirements of this chapter, the AHJ will issue a permit specifying the
work approved and any applicable permit conditions. A waterproofed permit must
be posted on the site in plain view, along with an approved soil erosion and
sedimentation control plan permit, which must be obtained from the Isabella
County Community Development Office. The AHJ shall notify the owner/developer
of the approval, disapproval, or approval with conditions. The owner will be
emailed (or mailed hard copy) a final approval letter upon completion of the
project, prior to release of the bond.
   (C)   Disapproval. If the proposed drainage system is disapproved, the AHJ
will issue a report outlining the deficiencies. The applicant may resubmit for
review. Two sets of plans and calculations shall be resubmitted.
   (D)   Approval of sequential applications for phased projects. When
additional phases are planned, an approval with conditions will be given
addressing the overall storm water requirements of the site. The AHJ encourages
submittal of all phases of a multi-phased project at the onset of a proposed
project to the extent possible, but may authorize sequential applications when
necessary. The bond and permit will address only the portions to be constructed
during the phase to which the application pertains.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.07 PERMITEE COMPLIANCE DURING AND AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Changes to approved plan. Any proposed changes made to the approved
plan shall be submitted to the AHJ and/or designee for review and approval and
shall be subject to a revised-plan review fee in an amount established by the
governing body in the AHJ’s jurisdiction from time to time. Changes made
without approval may result in revocation of approval. Revocation of a Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control (SESC) permit may also be considered. All
changes in the approved plan authorized in the permit shall be submitted to the
AHJ for approval prior to any work on the system or earth change.
   (B)   Storm water control plan - “as-built” drawings. Construction record
drawings with specific as-built information as required by the AHJ, shall be
submitted by the registered design professional to the AHJ.
   (C)   Post-construction certification. A post-construction letter of
certification from a design professional certifying construction of the system
in compliance with the approved plans shall be submitted to the AHJ. The AHJ is
authorized to conduct inspections to ensure compliance in accordance with the
procedures in §
54.08.
   (D)   Permit expiration. Permits shall expire automatically upon the project
completion date provided on the permit. Permits shall also terminate
automatically if construction has not commenced within one year of the date of
issuance. The AHJ may extend a permit for a period not to exceed one year upon
the request of the owner/developer at the AHJ’s discretion.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.08 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Developments and redevelopments. The design professional responsible
for the design of the storm water management system shall be required to
complete an inspection report, on a form acceptable to the AHJ and certify that
the system conforms with the design specified on the permit application. The
design professional shall also submit as-built drawings to the AHJ. The AHJ may
also require inspection of the system by AHJ personnel. These inspections may
occur during or after construction as determined necessary by the AHJ or
designee during the review process, and would be outlined in the letter of
approval. If inspection by the AHJ is required, the owner/developer and/or
design professional shall be informed at what stage of construction these
inspections will be required. Subsequent inspections may be required if
deficiencies exist.
   (B)   Inspection of facilities to be publicly owned. The (AHJ) may agree to
incorporate facilities constructed under this chapter as part of the public
drainage system upon request of the property owner. Any facilities that are to
become part of the public drainage system shall be inspected by the AHJ at the
time of installation. Any work which is concealed at the time of inspection
shall be exposed for approval.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.09 MINIMUM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
   This section outlines the requirements for the design of storm water
management systems. Engineering judgment must be utilized to accomplish the
overall goals of this chapter.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Storm water detention requirements for any new construction
development, redevelopment, or land use change occurring within Isabella County
will be determined according to the storm water discharge permit procedure.
      (2)    The peak runoff rate during a 25-year storm event from a developed
or redeveloped site shall not exceed the allowable discharge rate (Qa). This
rate is determined using the design impervious factor (IF). The impervious
factor of demolished sites is assumed undeveloped. Either detention storage
with a regulated discharge must be provided or all impervious surfaces must be
removed from the site.
      (3)   There shall be no detrimental effect on the floodway or the
floodplain elevation during a 25-year design storm upstream or downstream of
the proposed development area as a result of the proposed development. All
required detention volumes must be stored above the 100-year floodplain.
      (4)   The drainage area used for computation will be the total area of
land on the subject property that flows to the site outlet. Extraneous flows
from off-site upland areas shall be permitted to bypass or pass through the
storm water management system on the subject property. Bypass or pass-through
devices must be sized with sufficient capacity to receive the flow generated by
a ten-year storm from upland areas. The applicant must provide engineering
calculations showing compliance with this division as part of the permit
process.
      (5)   Engineering calculations must be submitted with the storm water
discharge permit application. The calculations shall follow the procedures
outlined in the Appendix to Ordinance No. 992, passed 1-12-15. (A copy of the
ordinance is available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk
during normal business hours.)
      (6)   Roof drains may be connected to a storm sewer system if the flow
through the outlet to the AHJ's system is properly restricted. Unrestricted
runoff from roof drain will not be accepted; there are no exemptions.
      (7)   In the case of a proposed subdivision, the AHJ and/or designee
shall make a determination as to those control elevations that shall be entered
on the final plat, or make a determination as to the necessity for deed
restrictions on any particular lot in the subdivision requiring the
preservation of mandatory drainage facilities. Where a non-subdivided parcel of
land is proposed for development, the AHJ and/or designee shall make a
determination as to the need for covenants to maintain responsibility for
mandatory drainage facilities. All the facilities in the subdivision shall be
located in easements dedicated to the public, and shall be subject to continual
inspection during the construction period. Detention facilities within proposed
subdivision or condominium developments may be established as county drains
under the Drain Code of 1956, M.C.L.A. §§ 280.1 et seq., as amended.
      (8)   Proposed storm sewer enclosures must be designed so they will not
adversely impact any adjacent properties, upstream or downstream, and must be
designed to the impervious factors of the lands based upon future land use, not
necessarily existing conditions.
      (9)   SESC measures must be implemented.
   (B)   Allowable discharge (Qa)/detention requirements.
      (1)   The peak storm water discharge rate from any proposed development
or redevelopment site as required in this chapter shall be restricted to an
allowable discharge (Qa). The allowable discharge from the proposed area of
development or redevelopment cannot exceed the calculated discharge from the
proposed site based on one of the following methods. The method resulting in
the lowest allowable discharge from the site shall be used in determining the
required detention.
   0.15 cubic feet per second per acre of contributing area. <i.e. 0.15 cfs/
acre*10 acre site = 1.5 cfs Qa.
      (2)   Excess storm water runoff must be detained on site. Equations for
determining the required volume of detention storage are outlined in the
Appendix to Ordinance No. 992, passed 1-12-15. (A copy of the ordinance is
available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk during normal
business hours.) Detention storage calculations must be included with review
submittals.
   (C)   Storm water detention requirements.
      (1)   The storm water detention storage required for a site is to be
calculated using the Appendix to Ordinance No. 992, passed 1-12-15. (A copy of
the ordinance is available for public inspection in the office of the City
Clerk during normal business hours.) This must meet the 25-year minimum storage
storm. The allowable discharge is a maximum of 0.15 cfs per acre.
      (2)   If there are known existing flooding problem areas that will be
impacted by a proposed development, the required detention volume will be
determined by the AHJ.
   (D)   Discharge restrictor requirements. Restrictors are required to
regulate the discharge of storm water to the allowable discharge rate
established for a site. The circular in-line restrictor is sized based on the
orifice formula. The minimum restrictor size shall be two inches.
   a = Qa/[0.62 (64.4(h))½]
   a - area of orifice (square feet).
   Ah = head differential from center of orifice to Hydraulic Grade Line of
detention pond at maximum capacity (feet).
   (E)   Storm sewer piping requirements.
      (1)   Proposed storm sewer shall be designed to have capacity to pass the
ten-year design storm runoff rate (Qd).
      (2)   All storm sewer materials must comply with the construction
standards adopted by the AHJ.
      (3)   Provide two feet of minimum cover over the storm drainage system.
      (4)   Provide 18-inch vertical separation between all other utilities,
including sanitary sewers and water mains.
      (5)   Provide ten-foot horizontal separation from other utilities.
      (6)   Manholes/catch basins shall be placed at a maximum distance of 400
feet from any other manholes/catch basins for access/maintenance purposes.
      (7)   Provide a sump discharge outlet for each individual lot in all
developments. This outlet shall be a catch basin (minimum four-foot diameter)
and/or provide a storm water lead to each lot. Manufactured cored and booted
wye leads, six-inch minimum, to each lot are acceptable.
      (8)   Minimum pipe grades must be such to produce minimum scouring
velocity of two and one-half feet per second when pipe is flowing full without
surcharging.
      (9)   For storm drainage systems, plastic pipe may be used. This plastic
pipe shall be either schedule 80 PVC, smooth walled HDPE, or SDR 35. If pipe is
perforated, a manufacturer's "sock" shall be used over the pipe.
      (10)   Minimum pipe diameter for catch basin leads is 12 inches.
      (11)   Minimum pipe size for storm sewer main is 12 inches.
      (12)   Pipe should be sized for a ten-year design storm without
surcharging when possible.
      (13)   When two pipes or more of different sizes come into a structure,
the 8/10th flow lines shall match when possible.
      (14)   Catch basins should have a minimum sump depth of 24 inches.
   (F)   Detention requirements.
      (1)   Proposed storm drainage detention facilities shall be designed to
have capacity to detain, at minimum, the 25-year recurrence interval design
storm runoff volume in excess of the allowable discharge from the site. The
detention requirement must be discussed with the AHJ and/or designee.
      (2)   The maximum design storage elevation in a detention area must be a
minimum of one foot below the lowest ground elevation adjacent to the detention
area.
      (3)   The design maximum storage elevation in a detention area must not
be less than 12 inches below the minimum finish floor elevation of the proposed
structure(s) or existing facilities.
      (4)   Design of detention facilities will incorporate features that
facilitate their inspection and maintenance. The designer shall submit an
Operation and Maintenance (O & M) Plan and/or provide a maintenance agreement,
as necessary, for any detention facility prior to its acceptance by the AHJ.
      (5)   Designs of detention facilities shall incorporate safety features,
particularly at inlets, outlets, on steep slopes, and at any attractive
nuisances. These features may include, but not be limited to, fencing,
handrails, lighting, steps, grills, signs, and other protective or warning
devices so as to restrict access. Liability for the detention facilities will
be the responsibility of the owner/developer.
      (6)   Side slopes and the bottom of detention basins shall be top soiled,
to a minimum of four inches, and seeded. Soil erosion control blankets must be
installed to protect slopes if adequate vegetation does not exist between
September 1 and May 1.
      (7)   The side slopes and bottom of the basins shall be shaped with
maximum slopes of one vertical to four horizontal to allow mowing of these
surfaces.
      (8)   Detention basins and restrictors shall be maintained as necessary.
The owner will have 30 days to complete necessary maintenance on a detention
basin that has not been maintained, or a restrictor that has been removed or
not maintained. If this maintenance is not completed, the AHJ will have any
necessary maintenance completed at the owner's expense, unless other
arrangements have been agreed to in writing in an executed maintenance
agreement.
      (9)   Detention basins shall be constructed with the top of banks a
minimum of five feet from any pedestrian walkway (i.e., public and private
sidewalks/bike paths).
      (10)   Underground storm water detention systems will be accepted. Storm
water cleaning structures will be required at the inlets of these basins.
      (11)   Concrete walled systems will also be considered.
   (G)   Rear lot drainage requirements.
      (1)   Rear lot tile drains with contributing drainage areas up to one-
half acre shall have a minimum diameter of six inches and a minimum pipe slope
of 0.5%.
      (2)   Rear lot tile drains with contributing drainage areas greater than
one-half acre and less than one acre shall have a minimum diameter of eight
inches and a minimum pipe slope of 0.3%.
      (3)   Rear lot tile drains with a contributing area greater than one acre
shall be considered the main-line storm sewer and shall be designed according
to corresponding requirements. Calculations shall be submitted to verify the
rear lot drains have the capacity to pass the ten-year design storm event.
      (4)   All lots must be provided with rear lot drainage.
      (5)   Rear lot drainage tiles shall have a minimum cover of two feet.
      (6)   The AHJ and/or designee shall approve rear lot drainage tile and
catch basin material. The minimum diameter of a rear lot catch basin shall be
24 inches.
      (7)   An easement must be granted for rear lot drainage serving more than
one owner. For drainage improvements from private property across other private
property, easements must be obtained from property owners to assure perpetual
drainage rights and maintenance commitments by participants sufficient to
assure perpetual maintenance of the system. Copies of all executed easements
and agreements must be submitted to the AHJ.
   (H)   General compliance guidelines. The following guidelines are required
minimum and maximum, unless written justification is provided and approved.
      (1)   The minimum surface slopes for overland drainage are as follows:
         (a)   For bituminous-paved surfaces, 1%.
         (b)   For concrete-paved surfaces, 1%.
         (c)   For concrete curb and gutter, 0.4%.
         (d)   For drainage swales and valley-shaped ditches, 0.5%.
         (e)   For rear lot drainage swales and valley-shaped ditches, 0.5%.
         (f)   Landscape grading, 2%.
      (2)   The maximum surface slopes for overland drainage are as follows:
         (a)   For bituminous, concrete-paved surfaces, 5%.
         (b)   For concrete curb and gutter, 5%.
         (c)   For drainage swales and valley-shaped ditches, 5%.
         (d)   For rear lot drainage swales and valley-shaped ditches, 5%.
         (e)   Drainage swales and valley-shaped ditches shall have maximum
side slopes of four horizontal to one vertical.
         (f)   Landscape grading, one vertical to four horizontal.
      (3)   Site designer is responsible to meet all ADA requirements.
(Ord. 922, passed 1-12-15; Am. Ord. 1010, passed 5-23-16; Am. Ord. 1028, passed
10-9-17)
§ 54.10 VARIATIONS FROM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The AHJ may issue a storm water discharge permit that waives storm water
management requirements. Variation from these requirements shall require the
written approval of the AHJ, whose actions shall be conditioned upon the
following:
   (A)   The AHJ has determined that the overall storm water management for
drainage system is best suited to allow the site to drain unrestricted so that
the timing of the discharge will not adversely impact upstream lands;
   (B)   The owner/developer shall provide evidence in writing outlining in
detail the rationale for the proposed design changes including hydraulic and or
hydrologic computations. This document must be signed and sealed by a licensed
professional engineer; and
   (C)   Granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare, or injurious to other property in the territory in which
said property is located.
(Ord. 922, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.11 APPEALS.
   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied,
including, but not limited to, an owner/developer who has been denied a storm
water permit, may appeal in writing to the AHJ not later than 30 days after the
action or decision being appealed. Such appeal shall identify the matter being
appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Local Board of Appeals shall
consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects, or
modifies the action being appealed. In the event that there is another local
governmental entity(s) within the drainage district at issue, such entity(s)
shall be notified of the request. In considering any such appeal, the Local
Board of Appeals may consider the recommendations of the AHJ and the comments
of other persons having knowledge or expertise regarding the matter. The Local
Board of Appeals may overturn the determination of the AHJ upon determining
that the AHJ has wrongfully interpreted or applied the standards in this
chapter. When the Drain Commissioner is the AHJ, the decision of the Drain
Commissioner is final.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.12 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Denial and revocation of certificate of use and occupancy. The AHJ’s
building official shall deny or revoke a certificate of use and occupancy for
any building or structure without a valid storm water permit, where such permit
is required under this chapter.
   (B)   Storm water permit revocation. Any storm water permit issued under
this chapter may be revoked or suspended if there is a violation of the
conditions of the permit or if there is a misrepresentation or failure to
disclose relevant facts in the application submittal. The AHJ will provide the
owner/developer notice of its intent to revoke or suspend the permit via email
followed by an original copy by USPS first class mail.
   (C)   Municipal civil infraction base fines. Notwithstanding any other
provision in this Code of Ordinances, a person who violates any provision of
this chapter or any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued or made by the AHJ under this chapter, or any person who
aids or abets such activity or knowingly submits false information to the AHJ,
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine up to $1,000 per day for each infraction, plus costs and other sanctions.
Each day that a violation occurs and each provision that a given act or failure
to act violates shall be a separate offense.
   (D)   Increased fines. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Code of
Ordinances, increased fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. As used in this
section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision of this chapter (i)
committed by a person within any 12-month period and (ii) for which the person
admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible. The increased fine
for a repeat offense under this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $2,500, plus costs.
      (2)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $5,000, plus costs.
   (E)   Additional court remedies. In addition to the other remedies specified
in this section, the court may order compliance with this chapter and order
other such relief as is appropriate to assure compliance with this chapter. In
addition, the AHJ may seek injunctive or other relief to conditions in
violation of this chapter and take such other actions as are provided in this
chapter or in other applicable laws, rules and regulations. The election of one
remedy shall not prevent the simultaneous or subsequent pursuit of other
remedies all of which are cumulative.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
§ 54.13 OTHER PERMITS AND APPROVALS.
   The granting of a storm water permit only authorizes the discharge of storm
water from the development for which the permit is required, subject to the
terms of the permit. It shall not be deemed to approve other development, other
land use activities, or replace other required permits. Examples of other
permits or approvals that may be required include:
   (A)   The AHJ requires that property owners seek and obtain approval before
tapping in to existing open drain or storm sewer. Approval must be requested at
least 72-hours prior to tap-in.
   (B)   Site plan approval is required for certain activities under the AHJ’s
zoning ordinance.
   (C)   The Isabella County Department of Community Development Permits Office
is the county enforcing agent for Isabella County, and a permit must be
obtained when applicable for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control (SESC).
   (D)   The Isabella County Road Commission has or shares jurisdiction over
drainage along county roads and county rights-of-way within Isabella County.
Sites located along county road rights-of-way and discharging to Road
Commission drainage systems must obtain a permit from the Road Commission. When
a crossing is installed over a county roadside drain, a permit must be obtained
from the Road Commission.
   (E)   The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) has or shares
jurisdiction over drainage along state highways and state rights-of-way within
Isabella County. Sites located along MDOT rights-of-way and discharging to MDOT
drainage systems must obtain a permit from MDOT.
   (F)   The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) has
jurisdiction over proposed work within the 100-year floodplain, inland lake and
stream areas, and wetland areas. A permit must be obtained for work proposed in
these areas. In addition, the MDEQ is responsible for implementing the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) storm water permitting program.
(Ord. 992, passed 1-12-15)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
72.   BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   Changes in code
   
70.03   Operating while intoxicated, operating when visibly impaired, and zero
tolerance
   
70.04   Driving while license suspended
   
70.05   Driving while license suspended; FAC/FCJ
   
70.06   Production of evidence of insurance; certificate of insurance;
violations and penalties; renewal, transfer, or replacement of registration
plate; points; exemptions
   
70.07   Driving under influence of intoxicating liquor or controlled substance;
preliminary chemical breath analysis, administration; evidence, presumptions
   
70.08   Michigan Vehicle Code
Cross-reference:
   Driving on sidewalks prohibited, see §
98.36
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships and villages and all
future amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they are
effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan cities, townships
and villages referring to governmental unit shall mean the City of Mount
Pleasant.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publish this ordinance in the manner required by
law and shall at the same time publish a supplementary notice setting forth the
purpose of the said Uniform Traffic Code and that of the fact that complete
copies of the code are available at the office of the City Clerk for inspection
by and distribution to the public at all times.
(Ord. 523, passed 5-16-77; Am. Ord. 911, passed 9-12-05)
§ 70.02 CHANGES IN CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of the Uniform Traffic Code for
cities, townships and villages are hereby amended or deleted as set forth and
additional sections and subsections are added as indicated. Subsequent section
numbers used in this ordinance shall refer to the like numbered sections of the
Uniform Traffic Code.
Sec. 2.54 Clerk.
   Delete section entirely.
Sec. 2.55 Clerk to Issue Permit for Loading or Unloading at an Angle to Curb.
   Delete section entirely.
Sec. 2.56 Clerk to Issue Permit for Curb Loading Zone.
   Delete section entirely.
Sec. 2.57 Clerk to Provide Traffic Citation Forms.
   Delete section entirely.
Sec. 2.58 Records to be kept.
   Delete section entirely.
Sec. 4.21 Bicycle Path; vehicles prohibited; snowmobiles permitted under
certain conditions. Section amended to read:
   Sec. 4.21 “Bicycle paths”; vehicles prohibited.
   1.   A person shall not operate a vehicle upon or across a bicycle path
except to enter or leave adjacent property.
   2.   A person shall not park a vehicle upon a bicycle path.
   3.   A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Sec. 5.16(c) Consumption of Liquor on highways or on property open to public.
Delete section entirely.
Sec. 6.5 Bicycle dealers.
   Delete section entirely.
Sec. 6.21 Bicycle; bell, siren whistle.
   Delete section entirely.
Chapter 10, Snowmobiles, Sec. 10.1 - 10.75.
   Delete Chapter and Sections entirely.
(Ord. 523, passed 5-16-77; Am. Ord. 568, passed 4-17-80; Am. Ord. 603, passed
5-2-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 4-4-88; Am. Ord. 804, passed 8-25-97)
§ 70.03 OPERATING WHILE INTOXICATED, OPERATING WHEN VISIBLY IMPAIRED, AND ZERO
TOLERANCE.
   (A)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this state if the person is operating while intoxicated. As used in this
section OPERATING WHILE INTOXICATED means any of the following:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled
substance, or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
      (2)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.08 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine,
or beginning October 1, 2013, the person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams
or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
      (3)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.17 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of motor vehicles,
within this state by a person if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled
substance, or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
      (2)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.08 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine,
or beginning October 1, 2013, the person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams
or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
      (3)   The person's ability to operate the motor vehicle is visibly
impaired due to the consumption of alcoholic liquor, a controlled substance, or
a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
   (C)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this state when, due to the consumption of alcoholic liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled
substance, the person's ability to operate the vehicle is visibly impaired. If
a person is charged with violating division (A), a finding of guilty under this
division may be rendered.
   (D)   A person who is less than 21 years of age, whether licensed or not,
shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles, within this state if the person has any bodily
alcohol content. As used in this division, ANY BODILY ALCOHOL CONTENT means
either of the following:
      (1)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.08
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine, or beginning October 1, 2013, the person has an alcohol
content of not less than 0.02 grams or more but less than 0.10 grams per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
      (2)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from the
consumption of alcoholic liquor, other than consumption of alcoholic liquor as
a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
   (E)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this state if the person has in his or her body any amount of a
controlled substance listed in schedule 1 under section 7212 of the public
health code, 1978 PA 368, as amended, M.C.L.A. § 333.7212, or a rule
promulgated under that section, or of a controlled substance described in
section 7214(a)(iv) of the public health code, 1978 PA 368, as amended,
M.C.L.A. § 333.7214.
   (F)   If a person is convicted of violating division (A)(1), (2) or (E), all
of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of
the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
         (c)   A fine not less than $100 or more than $500.
   (G)   If a person is convicted of violating division (A)(3), all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of
the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
         (c)   A fine not less than $200 or more than $700.
   (H)   A person who is convicted of violating division (B) is guilty of a
crime as follows:
      (1)   A misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days
or a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500, or both.
   (I)   If a person is convicted of violating division (C), all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of
the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
         (c)   A fine of not more than $300.
   (J)   In the judgment of sentence under division (A) or (C), the court may
order vehicle immobilization as provided in M.C.L.A. § 257.904d.
   (K)   If a person is convicted of violating division (D), all of the
following apply:
      (1)   The person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or both of
the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
         (b)   A fine of not more than $250.
      (2)   If the violation occurs within seven years of one or more
convictions, the person may be sentenced to one or more of the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 60 days.
         (b)   A fine of not more than $500.00.
         (c)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
   (L)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed under this section,
the city make seek, and the court may order the person to pay the costs of the
prosecution under the code of criminal procedure, 1927 PA 175, M.C.L.A. §§
760.1 to 777.69.
   (M)   A person sentenced to perform community service under this section
shall not receive compensation and shall reimburse the state or appropriate
local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by the state or
local unit of government as a result of the person’s activities in that
service.
   (N)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (A), (C), or (E),
the court shall not permit the defendant to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere to a charge of violating division (D) in exchange for dismissal of
the original charge. This division (N) does not prohibit the court from
dismissing the charge upon the prosecuting attorney’s motion.
   (O)   Except as otherwise provided in division (Q), if a person is charged
with operating a vehicle while under the influence of a controlled substance or
a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance in violation of
division (A), the court shall require the jury to return a special verdict in
the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the person without a
jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the person was under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance at
the time of the violation.
   (P)   Except as otherwise provided in division (Q), if a person is charged
with operating a vehicle while his or her ability to operate the vehicle was
visibly impaired due to his or her consumption of a controlled substance or a
combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance in violation of
division (C), the court shall require the jury to return a special verdict in
the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the person without a
jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court shall make a
finding as to whether, due to the consumption of a controlled substance or a
combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance, the person’s
ability to operate a motor vehicle was visibly impaired at a time of the
violation.
   (Q)   A special verdict described in divisions (O) and (P) is not required
if a jury is instructed to make a finding solely as to either of the following:
      (1)   Whether the defendant was under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance at
the time of the violation.
      (2)   Whether the defendant was visibly impaired due to his or her
consumption of a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
   (R)   If a jury or court finds under division (O), (P), or (Q) that the
defendant operated a motor vehicle under the influence of or while impaired due
to the consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of a controlled
substance and an alcoholic liquor, the court shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Report the finding to the Secretary of State.
      (2)   On a form or forms prescribed by the state court administrator,
forward to the department of state police a record that specifies the penalties
imposed by the court, including any term of imprisonment, and any sanction
imposed under M.C.L.A. § 257.904d.
   (S)   The court may order as a condition of probation that a person
convicted of violating division (A) or (E), shall not operate a motor vehicle
unless the vehicle is equipped with an ignition interlock device approved,
certified, and installed as required by law.
   (T)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a record described in (R)(2) is a
public record and the department of state police shall retain the information
contained on that record for not less than seven years.
   (U)   In a prosecution for a violation of division (D), the defendant bears
the burden of proving that the consumption of alcoholic liquor was a part of a
generally recognized religious service or ceremony by a preponderance of the
evidence.
(Ord. 827, passed 10-25-99; Am. Ord. 896, passed 2-9-04; Am. Ord. 972, passed
6-11-12)
§ 70.04 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE SUSPENDED.
   (A)   A person whose operator's or chauffeur's license or registration
certificate has been suspended or revoked and who has been notified as provided
in M.C.L.A. § 257.212 of that suspension or revocation, whose application for
license has been denied, or who has never applied for a license, shall not
operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of motor vehicles, within this state.
   (B)   A person shall not knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated upon a highway or other place open to the general public
or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within this state, by a person whose license or
registration certificate is suspended or revoked, whose application for license
has been denied, or who has never applied for a license, except as permitted
under this act.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person who violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
follows: For a first violation, by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a
fine of not more than $500, or both. Unless the vehicle was stolen or used with
the permission of a person who did not knowingly permit an unlicensed driver to
operate the vehicle, the registration plates of the vehicle shall be canceled
by the Secretary of State upon notification by a peace officer.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who has one currently
effective suspension or denial on his or her Michigan driving record under
M.C.L.A. § 257.321a or a local ordinance substantially corresponding to
M.C.L.A. § 257.321a (failure to appear in court and/or failure to comply with
judgment) and has never been convicted of or received a civil infraction
determination for a violation that occurred during that suspension or denial.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, a person who never applied for a license
includes a person who applied for a license, was denied, and never applied
again.
(Ord. 839, passed 2-28-00)
§ 70.05 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE SUSPENDED; FAC/FCJ.
   A person who fails to answer a citation, or a notice to appear in court for
a violation reportable to the Secretary of State under M.C.L.A. § 257.732 or a
local ordinance substantially corresponding to a violation of a law of this
state reportable to the Secretary of State under M.C.L.A. § 257.732, or for any
matter pending, or who fails to comply with an order or judgment of the court,
including, but not limited to, paying all fines, costs, fees, and assessments,
is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days
or a fine of not more than $100, or both.
(Ord. 839, passed 2-28-00)
§ 70.06 PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE; CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE;
VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES; RENEWAL, TRANSFER, OR REPLACEMENT OF REGISTRATION
PLATE; POINTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle who operates or permits the operation of
the motor vehicle upon the highways of this state or the operator of the motor
vehicle shall produce, pursuant to division (B) of this section, upon the
request of a police officer, evidence that the motor vehicle is insured under
Chapter 31 of the insurance code of 1956, Public Act 218 of 1956, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 500.3101 - 500.3179. An owner or operator of a motor vehicle who
fails to produce evidence of insurance under this division when requested to
produce that evidence, or who fails to have motor vehicle insurance for the
vehicle as required under Chapter 31 of Public Act 218 of 1956 is responsible
for a civil infraction, the penalty for which is $90. At the time the owner or
operator is determined to be responsible for this violation, if the owner or
operator produces evidence that the vehicle, at the time of the police
officer's request, was insured as required under Chapter 31 of Public Act 218
of 1956, but the proof of insurance was not produced to the police officer, the
penalty for the civil infraction shall be $35.
   (B)   A certificate of insurance, if issued by an insurance company, which
certificate states that security which meets the requirements of sections 3101
and 3102 of Public Act 218 of 1956, being M.C.L.A. §§ 500.3101 and 500.3102, is
in force shall be accepted as prima facie evidence that insurance is in force
for the motor vehicle described in the certificate of insurance until the
expiration date shown on the certificate. The certificate, in addition to
describing the motor vehicles for which insurance is in effect, shall state the
name of each person named on the policy, policy declaration, or a declaration
certificate whose operation of the vehicle would cause the liability coverage
of that insurance to become void.
   (C)   If an owner or operator of a motor vehicle is determined to be
responsible for a violation of division (A) of this section, the court in which
the civil infraction determination is entered may require the person to
surrender his or her operator's or chauffeur's license unless proof that the
vehicle has insurance meeting the requirements of sections 3101 and 3102 of
Public Act 218 of 1956, is submitted to the court. If the court requires the
license to be surrendered, the court shall order the Secretary of State to
suspend the person's license. The court shall immediately destroy the license
and shall forward to the Secretary of State an abstract of the court record as
required by M.C.L.A. § 257.732. Upon receipt of the abstract, the Secretary of
State shall suspend the person's license, beginning with the date on which a
person is determined to be responsible for the civil infraction, for a period
of 30 days or until proof of insurance which meets the requirements of sections
3101 and 3102 of Public Act 218 of 1956 is submitted to the Secretary of State,
whichever occurs later. A person who submits proof of insurance to the
Secretary of State under this division shall pay a service fee of $25 to the
Secretary of State. The person shall not be required to be examined as set
forth in M.C.L.A. § 257.320c and shall not be required to pay a replacement
license fee.
   (D)   If an owner or operator of a motor vehicle is determined to be
responsible for a violation of division (A) of this section, the court in which
the civil infraction determination is entered shall notify the Secretary of
State of the vehicle registration number and the year and make of the motor
vehicle being operated at the time of the violation. This notification shall be
made on the abstract or on a form approved by the Supreme Court Administrator.
Upon receipt, the Secretary of State shall immediately enter this information
in the records of the department. The Secretary of State shall not renew,
transfer, or replace the registration plate of the vehicle involved in the
violation or allow the purchase of a new registration plate for the vehicle
involved in the violation until the owner meets the requirements of M.C.L.A. §
257.227a, or unless the vehicle involved in the violation is transferred or
sold to a person other than the owner's spouse, mother, father, sister,
brother, or child.
   (E)   Points shall not be entered on a driver's record pursuant to M.C.L.A.
§ 257.320a for a violation of this section.
   (F)   This section does not apply to the owner or operator of a motor
vehicle that is registered in a state other than this state or a foreign
country or province.
(Ord. 839, passed 2-28-00)
§ 70.07 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE;
PRELIMINARY CHEMICAL BREATH ANALYSIS, ADMINISTRATION; EVIDENCE, PRESUMPTIONS.
   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe that a person was
operating a vehicle upon a public highway or other place open to the public or
generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles within this state, and that the person, by the consumption
of intoxicating liquor, may have affected his or her ability to operate a
vehicle or reasonable cause to believe that a person who is less than 21 years
of age was operating a vehicle upon a public highway or other place open to the
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles within this state while the person had any bodily
alcohol content as that term is defined in M.C.L.A. § 257.625(6), may require
the person to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis. The following
provisions apply with respect to a preliminary chemical breath analysis
administered under this section:
   (A)   A peace officer may arrest a person based in whole or in part upon the
results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis.
   (B)   The results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis are admissible
in a criminal prosecution for a crime enumerated in M.C.L.A. § 257.625e(1), or
in an administrative hearing for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To assist the court or hearing officer in determining a challenge
to the validity of an arrest. This division does not limit the introduction of
other competent evidence offered to establish the validity of an arrest.
      (2)   As evidence of the defendant's breath alcohol content, if offered
by the defendant to rebut testimony elicited on cross-examination of a defense
witness that the defendant's breath alcohol content was higher at the time of
the charged offense than when a chemical test was administered under M.C.L.A. §
257.625a(6).
      (3)   As evidence of the defendant's breath alcohol content, if offered
by the prosecution to rebut testimony elicited on cross-examination of a
prosecution witness that the defendant's breath alcohol content was lower at
the time of the charged offense than when a chemical test was administered
under M.C.L.A. § 257.625a(6).
   (C)   A person who submits to a preliminary chemical breath analysis remains
subject to the requirements of M.C.L.A. §§ 257.625c, 257.625d, 257.625e, and
257.625f for purposes of chemical tests described in those sections.
   (D)   Except for a person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle, a
person who refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis upon a
lawful request by a peace officer is responsible for a civil infraction, the
penalty for which is $180.
(Ord. 839, passed 2-28-00)
§ 70.08 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   The Michigan Vehicle Code 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923,
and all future amendments and revisions to the Michigan Vehicle Code when they
are effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL AUTHORITIES shall
mean the City of Mount Pleasant.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publish this section in the manner required by
law and shall at the same time publish a supplementary notice setting forth the
purpose of the said Michigan Vehicle Code and that of the fact that complete
copies of the code are available at the office of the City Clerk for inspection
by and distribution to the public at all times.
   (D)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the city may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
(Ord. 911, passed 9-12-05)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Purpose and scope
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Parking restrictions
   
71.04   Parking permits
   
71.05   Electric vehicle charging stations
   
71.06   Enforcement
§ 71.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate parking in the city. This chapter
applies to all public roads and parking lots in the city and as otherwise
indicated herein.
(Ord. 1091, passed 10-9-23)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT or DOWNTOWN. The area with the following legal
description:
      (1)   Commencing at the intersection of the north right-of-way line of
Illinois Street and the west right-of-way line of Washington Street; thence
east, along said north right-of-way line of Illinois Street, to the west right-
of-way line of Lansing Street; thence north, along said west right-of-way line
of Lansing Street, to the north right-of-way line of Mosher Street; thence
west, along said north right-of-way line of Mosher Street, to the west right-
of-way line of Main Street; thence south, along said west right-of-way line of
Main Street, to the midpoint on the east line of Lot 5, Block 14 of the
Original Plat; thence west along the north line of the south half of said Lot
5, Block 14 of the Original Plat, extended to a point 40.8 feet west of the
west line of said Lot 5, Block 14 of the Original Plat; thence southwesterly,
along a curve to the left, to a point on the north right-of-way line of
Broadway, lying 122.04 feet west of the southwest corner of Lot 1, Block 14 of
the Original Plat; thence west, along the north right-of-way of Broadway
Street, 113.96 feet to a point 203 feet west and 43.75 feet north of the
interior quarter corner (center) of Section 15, T14N-R4W; thence north, 231.31
feet, to the southerly line of the former Ann Arbor Railroad spur right-of-way
line; thence northeasterly, along said southerly right-of-way line of the
former railroad spur, to the north-south quarter line of said Section 15;
thence north, along said north-south quarter line to the top bank traverse line
of the Chippewa River; thence southwesterly, along said traverse line, to the
centerline of Oak Street, extended; thence south, along said centerline of Oak
Street, extended, to the north right-of-way line of Broadway Street; thence
west, along said north right-of-way line of Broadway Street, to the west right-
of-way of Walnut Street, extended; thence south, along said west line of Walnut
Street, extended, to a point being 82.5 feet south of the east-west quarter
line of said Section 15; thence east, to a point on the west right-of-way line
of Oak Street, lying 82.5 feet south of the intersection of said west right-of-
way line Oak Street and said east-west quarter line; thence south, along said
west right-of-way line of Oak Street, to the south right-of-way line of
Michigan Street; thence east, along said south right-of-way line of Michigan
Street, to the west right-of-way line of Washington Street; thence south, along
said west right-of-way line of Washington Street, to the north right-of-way
line of Illinois Street and the point of beginning.
      (2)   The area can also be described as within the following boundaries:
         (a)   North of the north side of Illinois Street;
         (b)   West of the west side of Lansing Street;
         (c)   South of the north side of Mosher Street;
         (d)   East of the west side of Main Street;
         (e)   South of the north side of Broadway Street;
         (f)   East of the west side of Walnut Street, extended;
         (g)   East of the west side of Oak Street;
         (h)   North of the south side of Michigan Street;
         (i)   East of the west side of Washington Street; and
         (j)   Southeasterly of the center thread of the Chippewa River.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   DUMPSTER. A large trash receptacle designed to be hoisted and emptied into a
truck.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in M.C.L.A. § 257.33. The term means every vehicle
that is self-propelled, except for the following
      (1)   Industrial equipment such as a forklift, a front-end loader, or
other construction equipment that is not subject to registration under the
Motor Vehicle Code;
      (2)   A power-driven mobility device when that power-driven mobility
device is being used by an individual with a mobility disability;
      (3)   An electric patrol vehicle being operated in compliance with the
Electric Patrol Vehicle Act, 1997 PA 55, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1571 to 257.1577;
      (4)   An electric personal assistive mobility device;
      (5)   An electric carriage;
      (6)   A commercial quadricycle;
      (7)   An electric bicycle; and
      (8)   An electric skateboard.
   PARK. To cause, allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle to stand or be parked.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle that has its own motive power or is
towed by a motor vehicle; is primarily designed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use; complies with all
applicable federal vehicle regulations; and does not require a special highway
movement permit under M.C.L.A. § 257.719a to be operated or towed on a street
or highway. The term includes, but is not limited to, a motor home, travel
trailer, park model trailer that does not require a special highway movement
permit under § 257.719a, or pickup camper. See M.C.L.A. § 257.49a.
(Ord. 1091, passed 10-9-23)
§ 71.03 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of parking in certain areas. No person may park a motor
vehicle in any of the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic, in compliance with law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, or when a permit has been granted by the
City Manager:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of or across a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within three feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On any portion of a fire lane, unless permitted by the City
Manager;
      (6)   In any place or in any manner so as to obstruct the immediate
egress from an emergency exist of a building or a designated fire escape;
      (7)   Between a curb and a sidewalk;
      (8)   In a side or front yard in a residential district;
      (9)   ADA spaces will be in compliance with all State of Michigan codes;
or
      (10)   Without a permit in a space designated as permit parking only.
   (B)   Prohibitions on method of parking in certain areas. The following
methods of parking are prohibited where specified:
      (1)   With a vehicle's left wheels nearest to the curb, except on one-way
roadways where parking is permitted on the left side of the roadway; and
      (2)   Back-in parking, in any angled parking spot.
   (C)   Time restrictions for parking in certain areas.
      (1)   No person may park overtime beyond the period of legal parking time
identified by a regulatory sign;
      (2)   No person may park any vehicle on any street in the Central
Business District between the hours of 4:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. during any day of
the year; and
      (3)   Snow emergencies.
         (a)   No person may park or leave any vehicle, RV, construction
trailer, or dumpster on a street or highway in the city when a snow emergency
is in effect.
         (b)   The City Manager may declare a snow emergency after making a
finding that, on the basis of falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or based
on a National Weather Service forecast, weather conditions will make it
necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on city
streets will be prohibited or restricted for plowing or other purposes. A snow
emergency must be publicly announced prior to its effective time by means of
press release, web posting, telephone information line, and/or emergency
communications system where feasible.
         (c)   Once in effect, a snow emergency remains in effect until
terminated by an announcement of the City Manager in the same manner in which
it was declared.
   (D)   Restrictions on parking of certain vehicles and use of city right-of-
way.
      (1)   Stalled or disabled vehicles.
         (a)   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled or disabled for any reason on
any portion of a city street to which a parking prohibition applies, the person
operating the vehicle shall take immediate action to have the vehicle towed or
pushed off the street.
         (b)   No person may abandon or leave a vehicle on a city street,
except for the purpose of securing assistance during the actual time necessary
to go to a nearby telephone, garage, automobile service station, or other place
of assistance and return without delay.
      (2)   Dumpsters. No dumpster may be left overnight on any street, alley,
parking lot, highway, or other public place unless authorized by the Director
of Public Works. The Director of Public Works may provide for the issuance of a
temporary dumpster permit for parking and use of a dumpster on public grounds
owned or controlled by the city, on such order and conditions as the City
Manager shall, in his/her discretion, determine to be just and reasonable, for
a period of time not to exceed ten days in any one calendar year.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles (RVs).
         (a)   A recreational vehicle may be parked, used, or occupied on the
premises of a dwelling only if the occupants of the RV have access to and the
unlimited use of the sanitary facilities of the dwelling and the operator of
the RV secures a permit as provided by this chapter.
         (b)   No recreational vehicle may be parked overnight on any street,
alley, parking lot, highway, or other public place unless authorized by the
Building Official. The Building Official may provide for the issuance of a
temporary RV permit for parking, use, and occupancy of recreational vehicle on
public grounds owned or controlled by the city, on such order and conditions as
the City Manager shall, in his/her discretion, determine to be just and
reasonable, for a period of time not to exceed ten days in any one calendar
year.
         (c)   No recreational vehicle may be parked at any time between the
established setback line and the curb line of any lot.
         (d)   No person may park or permit the occupancy of any recreational
vehicle on a lot, field, or tract of land not specifically licensed as a
campground, except only as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1091, passed 10-9-23)
§ 71.04 PARKING PERMITS.
   (A)   Fees, eligibility, and designation. The City Commission shall by
resolution set the cost of parking permits, the eligibility requirements for
each type, and the designation of lots and streets where parking is allowed by
permit only.
   (B)   Types of permits.
      (1)   Overnight.
         (a)   Overnight parking in the Central Business District is restricted
to holders of an overnight permit. Overnight permit holders may only park in
designated lots.
         (b)   The City Manager may declare that, on the basis of falling snow,
sleet, or freezing rain, or based on a National Weather Service forecast,
weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be
expedited and that parking in city parking lots will be prohibited or
restricted for plowing or other purposes. This declaration must be publicly
announced prior to its effective time by means of press release, web posting,
email, and telephone information line where feasible.
      (2)   Guest.
         (a)   Guest permits are required of guests visiting downtown residents
wishing to park in a downtown lot overnight and of guests of residents of
designated residential neighborhoods wishing to park overnight on any street in
a designated residential neighborhood. Guest permits are limited to seven days.
         (b)   The City Manager may declare that, on the basis of falling snow,
sleet, or freezing rain, or based on a National Weather Service forecast,
weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be
expedited and that parking in city parking lots will be prohibited or
restricted for plowing or other purposes. This declaration must be publicly
announced prior to its effective time by means of press release, web posting,
email, and telephone information line where feasible.
      (3)   Residential neighborhood. Residential neighborhood permits are
available to property owners and tenants in designated residential neighborhood
permit zones.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles. The owner, occupant, or user of a
recreational vehicle to be parked in the city and in a city lot must procure a
permit as prescribed in division (D) below.
      (5)   Construction trailer. Construction trailer permits, issued by the
Building Official, are intended for use by construction companies and personnel
during a specific construction project, to utilize space in a municipal parking
lot or the use of on-street parking space(s). The permit will be valid for the
duration of the project. The permit shall specify the parking location(s) for
which it is valid.
      (6)   Commercial. Commercial permits are intended for use by city
businesses that require parking of vehicles primarily used for business
purposes in the city and allow daytime and overnight parking in streets,
spaces, or lots designated by the City Manager.
   (C)   Use of permits.
      (1)   Permits are only valid according to their type and do not permit a
driver to park outside the scope of the permit.
      (2)   As necessary from time to time, the City Manager or his/her
designee may contact permit holders to move their vehicle(s) so that lots may
be cleaned. Failure to move a vehicle as requested constitutes a violation of
this chapter.
   (D)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   An application for a permit to park, use, and occupy a recreational
vehicle on the premises of a dwelling or parcel of land must be made to the
Department of Building Safety.
         (a)   The application must state:
            1.   The name of the owner or occupant in control of the trailer
coach;
            2.   The name and address of the owner or operator of the
recreational vehicle;
            3.   The license number on the recreational vehicle; and
            4.   The required fee, if one has been set.
         (b)   Attached to the application must be written consent by the owner
in control of the dwelling or parcel of land at which the recreational vehicle
will park and be used and occupied for the persons using the trailer coach for
the unlimited use of the sanitary facilities on the premises.
         (c)   Upon the filing of the application, the Department must cause an
inspection to be made of the dwelling premises or parcel of land and the
recreational vehicle. If the inspection finds that adequate facilities are
afforded on the premises for the disposal of waste created and it appears that
the parking, use, and occupancy of the trailer coach complies with applicable
statutes and ordinances, approval will be granted.
         (d)   After the application is approved and the permit fee is paid,
the Building Official shall issue a permit starting the limit of time for the
parking, use, or occupancy of the trailer coach. The permit may authorize the
parking, use, or occupancy of the trailer coach for not more than six weeks.
         (e)   No more than two permits may be issued for any one trailer coach
or to any one trailer coach operator or occupant in one 12-month period.
      (2)   The Building Official may provide for the issuance of temporary RV
permit for parking, use, and occupancy of a recreational vehicle on public
grounds owned or controlled by the city, on such order and conditions as the
City Manager shall, in his/her discretion, determine to be just and reasonable,
for a period of time not to exceed ten days in any one calendar year.
      (3)   The Building Official or his or her authorized representative or a
member of the Department of Public Safety has the authority to enter and
inspect at any reasonable time any premises upon which a recreational vehicle
is parked, used, or occupied for the purpose of ascertaining that the owner,
operator, or occupant of the trailer coach is complying with all applicable
statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   (E)   Special agreements.
      (1)   Feight Apartments (119 South Franklin). Eight parking spaces for
24-hour parking shall be reserved in the city-owned parking lot on the corner
of E. Michigan and S. Lansing Street for tenants of Feight Apartments.
      (2)   MCC Parcel B Title Holding Corporation (410 West Broadway). MCC
Parcel B Title Holding Corporation and its agents, employees, tenants,
licensees, permittees, and contractors shall enjoy the rights granted to it by
the parking and access easement recorded at 1877 Liber 310.
(Ord. 1091, passed 10-9-23)
§ 71.05 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS.
   (A)   Public electric vehicle charging stations are reserved for parking and
charging electric vehicles. Electric vehicles may be parked in any space
designated for public parking, subject to the restrictions that apply to any
other vehicle.
   (B)   When a sign provides notice that a parking space is a publicly
designated electric vehicle charging station, no person shall park or stand any
non-electric vehicle in a designated electric vehicle charging station space.
Further, no person shall park or stand an electric vehicle in a publicly
designated electric vehicle charging station space when not electrically
charging or parked beyond the days and hours designated on the regulatory signs
posted. For purposes of this section, CHARGING means an electric vehicle parked
at an electric vehicle charging station and connected to the charging station
equipment.
(Ord. 1091, passed 10-9-23)
§ 71.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement personnel. A civil infraction citation for any parking
violation may be issued by any authorized personnel.
   (B)   Parking Violations Bureau. The Parking Violations Bureau, under the
supervision and control of the City Manager, is tasked with handling alleged
violations of the schedule enumerated in division (I) below. The Bureau's
authority is limited to enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Ongoing violations. Each and every day and hour during which a
violation of the Uniform Traffic Code and other provisions of this chapter
continues is a separate, distinct, and independent offense.
   (D)   Operator as violator. A police officer or the Parking Violations
Bureau may issue a citation for the violation to the operator of the vehicle if
the operator is present at the time of the violation.
   (E)   Administrative fee. An administrative fee must be added to each
account for each notice sent for delinquent parking fines. The City Commission
must set the administrative fee by resolution.
   (F)   Civil infraction. Any person that violates any provision of this
chapter is responsible for a civil infraction.
   (G)   Contents of citation. The citation must indicate:
      (1)   The length of time in which the person to whom the citation was
issued must respond before the Parking Violations Bureau;
      (2)   The address of the Bureau;
      (3)   The hours during which the Bureau is open;
      (4)   The amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense for which the
ticket was issued; and
      (5)   Advise that a warrant for the arrest of the person to whom the
ticket was issued will be sought if the person fails to respond within the time
limited.
   (H)   Effect of citation. The issuance of a citation by a police officer or
the Parking Violations Bureau is an allegation of a parking violation.
   (I)   Schedule of violations. The fine for violation of a municipal civil
infraction under this chapter must be set by resolution by the City Commission.
   (J)   Disposition of claims.
      (1)   Only violations that are scheduled in division (I) above may be
disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.
      (2)   The fact that a particular violation appears on the fine schedule,
as adopted by the City Commission, does not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau. If the Bureau declines to dispose
of a violation, the violation must be disposed of before a court having
jurisdiction and any person having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn
complaint as provided by law.
      (3)   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except
at the specific request of the alleged violator.
      (4)   The Bureau may not accept a penalty for any violation from any
person who denies having committed the offense. The Bureau may not determine,
or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter related to
the alleged violation.
   (K)   Prima facie evidence. In any proceeding for a violation of this
chapter, proof that the vehicle described in the citation was parked in
violation of this chapter and that the defendant named in the citation was, at
the time of parking, the registered owner of the vehicle, is prima facie
evidence that the registered owner violated this chapter.
   (L)   Conflict of provisions. Any temporary prohibition or regulation of
parking declared by the City Manager under this chapter, while in effect,
supersedes any conflicting provisions, except for laws applicable to traffic
accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency
traffic directions ordered by a police officer.
   (M)   Relationship to other laws. No provision of this chapter may be
construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by any
other law.
(Ord. 1091, passed 10-9-23)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles and electric bicycles
   
72.03   Responsibility of parents and guardians
Operating Regulations
   
72.15   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
72.16   Riding on seat; number of riders
   
72.17   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
72.18   Speed
   
72.19   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
72.20   Clinging to vehicles
   
72.21   Carrying articles
   
72.22   Parking
   
72.23   Riding on sidewalks
   
72.24   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles and electric bicycles
Rentals
   
72.35   Rental agencies
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two or three wheels in a tandem or tricycle arrangement, all of which
are over 14 inches in diameter.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A device upon which an individual may ride that satisfies
all the following:
      (1)   The device is equipped with all the following:
         (a)   A seat or saddle for use by the rider.
         (b)   Fully operable pedals for human propulsion.
         (c)   An electric motor of not greater than 750 watts.
      (2)   The device falls within one of the following categories:
         (a)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. An electric bicycle that is equipped
with an electric motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that disengages or ceases to function when the electric bicycle reaches a
speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. An electric bicycle that is equipped
with a motor that propels the electric bicycle to a speed of no more than 20
miles per hour, whether the rider is pedaling or not, and that disengages or
ceases to function when the brakes are applied.
         (c)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. An electric bicycle that is equipped
with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that
disengages or ceases to function when the electric bicycle reaches a speed of
28 miles per hour.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25)
§ 72.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   Each person riding a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway shall be
granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road
applicable to vehicles or by the traffic regulations of the city applicable to
vehicles or by the traffic regulations of the city applicable to the driver of
a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter pertaining to
bicycles and electric bicycles, and except as to those provisions of laws and
regulations which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25)
§ 72.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.
   No parent of any child, nor guardian of any ward, shall authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 72.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Each person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall obey the
instructions of official traffic-control signals, signs, and other control
devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or "U" turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle
shall disobey the direction of any sign, except where such person dismounts
from the bicycle or electric bicycle to make any such turn, in which event such
person shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 RIDING ON SEAT; NUMBER OF RIDERS.
   (A)   No person propelling a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle or electric bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Each person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
   (B)   No person riding a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a street or
highway shall ride more than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways
set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles and electric bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles and electric bicycles has been
provided adjacent to a street or highway, bicycle and electric bicycle riders
shall use such path and shall not use the street or highway.
   (D)   All bicycles and electric bicycles are permitted to operate on linear
paved trails located within the city, unless otherwise regulated.
   (E)   Only bicycles are permitted to operate on nonmotorized, natural
surface trails.
   (F)   Bicycles and electric bicycles are permitted to operate on motorized,
natural surface trails within the city.
   (G)   Whenever an operator of a bicycle or electric bicycle is passing any
other person and/or user of a sidewalk, linear paved trail, or pathway, an
audible signal complying with §
72.24(B) shall be used prior to overtaking or passing such user.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle or electric bicycle on a sidewalk or
linear paved trail/pathway at a speed greater than ten miles per hour or is
reasonable and prudent under the condition then existing or as otherwise
detailed herein or by state law.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   Individuals operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall at all times
operate said bicycle or electric bicycle with due care and caution. The
operator of a bicycle or electric bicycle, emerging from an alley, driveway, or
building, shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending
across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on
said sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall attach the same or
himself/herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the
handle bars.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a street other than
upon the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or electric bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such
manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety or his/her designee is authorized to
erect signs on any sidewalk, street, or roadway prohibiting the riding of
bicycles or electric bicycles thereon by any person, and when such signs are in
place, no person shall disobey the same.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES AND ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   Each bicycle and electric bicycle when in use at night-time shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear
of a type which shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet
to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle or electric bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall
not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric
bicycle any siren or whistle. An audible signal may include the rider's voice
for purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with a brake
which will enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level,
clean pavement.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
RENTALS
§ 72.35 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   A bicycle or electric bicycle rental agency shall not rent or offer any
bicycle or electric bicycle for rent unless such bicycle or electric bicycle is
equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 946, passed 4-13-09; Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be held
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and prosecuted in accordance with
the Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The fine for violation of a
municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall not exceed $50. Any minor
who violates any provision of this chapter shall be dealt with by the juvenile
division of the probate court or as prescribed by the laws of the state.
(Am. Ord. 1103, passed 7-28-25)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of probate court, see M.C.L.A. §§ 712A.1 et seq.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ALARM SYSTEMS
   
91.   ANIMALS
   
92.   CEMETERY REGULATIONS
   
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
94.   RESERVED
   
95.   MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
   
96.   NUISANCES
   
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
99.   TREES, SHRUBS AND PLANTS
CHAPTER 90: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
90.01   License required; alarm system defined
   
90.02   Application of provisions; exemptions
   
90.03   Director of Public Safety to be notified of alarm installation
   
90.04   Alarm requirements
   
90.05   Connection of system to Public Safety Dispatch Board
   
90.06   Automatic dialing to public service or utility
   
90.07   False alarms
   
90.08   Fee schedule
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; ALARM SYSTEM DEFINED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of installing an alarm system
who has not been licensed by the state in accordance with Public Act 190 of
1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 338.1051 et seq.
   (B)   The term ALARM SYSTEM shall mean an assembly of equipment and devices
arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter is intended to regulate burglar alarms, hold-up alarms, and
non-single family residential fire alarm systems. Alarm systems that signal the
presence of hazards other than those stated above are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
§ 90.03 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY TO BE NOTIFIED OF ALARM INSTALLATION.
   No person shall install an alarm system, with the exception of residential
fire alarm systems, without first notifying the Director of Public Safety in
writing of the location of the alarm and the type of system being installed.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04 ALARM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No alarm shall cover more than one business place and/or residence,
meaning that buildings with more than one business must have a separate alarm
for each business with a separate entrance. No single alarm shall cover a
grouping of houses, apartments or condominiums, which have separate entrances
to each living quarters. Provided, however, in case of fire alarm systems,
(i.e. heat detector, smoke detector, sprinkler system supervision) or any
combination of systems in multiple occupancy building, an annunciation panel
shall be installed in an area which is readily accessible to the Division of
Public Safety. The annunciation panel shall indicate in which occupancy or
section of the building the system was activated.
   (B)   No alarm system shall be installed within the city unless said system
meets the requirements of Public Act 190 of 1975, § 33, being M.C.L.A. §
338.1083; and the installation of all alarm systems shall be subject to
inspection and approval by the Director of Public Safety or his/her authorized
representative.
   (C)   In the case of fire alarm systems or devices, the following additional
requirements shall be complied with:
      (1)   Fire alarm devices shall be subject to approval by the Director of
Public Safety or his/her authorized representative.
      (2)   Plans and specifications for all fire alarm and sprinkler system
supervision systems shall be submitted to the City Building Official and the
Director of Public Safety or his/her authorized representative for their
approval prior to the installation of the system.
      (3)   All fire alarm systems shall be installed and maintained according
to applicable sections of the National Fire Codes (National Fire Protection
Association Standards) and the National Electrical Code.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 CONNECTION OF SYSTEM TO PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCH BOARD.
   No alarm system shall be connected to the Public Safety Dispatch Board
without permission of the Director of Public Safety and payment of an
installation fee to the city as established by resolution of the Commission.
Residential alarms shall not be permitted to connect to the Dispatch Board.
Priority shall be given to financial institutions and high risk commercial and
industrial businesses, as determined by the Director of Public Safety. In
addition, a yearly maintenance and monitoring fee shall be paid to the city
upon completion of installation and at the beginning of each calendar year. The
fee shall be established by resolution of the Commission. Permission to connect
to the Public Safety Dispatch Board shall be subject to revocation by the
Director of Public Safety upon notification in writing. All alarm systems in
operation after January 1, 1985, shall be subject to the above fees.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06 AUTOMATIC DIALING TO PUBLIC SERVICE OR UTILITY.
   (A)   No person shall sell, install, operate, adjust, arrange for, or
contract to provide a device upon which activation, either mechanically,
electronically, or by other means initiates the automatic calling, dialing or
connection to any telephone number assigned to a public service, utility or
police agency for the purpose of delivering a recorded message without first
receiving written permission from that service, utility or agency.
   (B)   The term TELEPHONE NUMBER includes any additional numbers assigned by
a public utility company engaged in the business of providing communications
services and facilities to be used by means of a rotary or other system to
connect with the subscriber to such primary number when the primary telephone
number is in use.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Safety to notify any
person, firm or corporation responsible for creating or maintaining a public
nuisance as herein defined. Such notice shall advise of the public nuisances
which are to be abated within a period of time, not exceeding ten days from the
date of said notice. Said notice shall further state that failure to comply
with its terms and conditions within the specified period shall render said
person, firm or corporation a violator of this chapter.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.07 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   As used in this section FALSE ALARM means the activation of an alarm
system through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation or the
negligence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system or his/her employee or
agent. FALSE ALARM does not include an alarm caused by severe weather or other
violent conditions beyond the control of the owner or lessee of an alarm system
or of their employee or agent.
   (B)   An alarm system experiencing more than two false alarms within a 30-
day period or four false alarms within a calendar year is deemed defective and
upon written notice to the owner or lessee of the alarm system by the Director
of Public Safety the owner or lessee shall have the system inspected by an
alarm system contractor who shall within 15 days file a written report to the
Director of Public Safety of the results of its inspection of the system, the
probable cause of the false alarms and its recommendations for eliminating
false alarms.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report the Director of Public Safety shall forward
same to the owner or lessee ordering corrections be made based upon the
recommendations contained in the report.
   (D)   The owner or lessee shall have three working days from receipt of
order to make corrections; thereafter, to defray the cost of responding to
false alarms, the owner or lessee of an alarm system shall pay a fee to the
city for each false alarm received and responded to by the Division of Public
Safety during the calendar year in which order to correct the system was
issued. Said fee shall be established by resolution of the Commission.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
§ 90.08 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule as recommended by the Director of Public Safety
is hereby approved, effective January 1, 1985:
 
Installation fee                      $100
Yearly maintenance and monitoring fee 100
False alarm penalty                   25 per alarm
Violation penalty                     100 plus costs
 
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this chapter for any
particular provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in
pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine in the amount of $100 and costs
of prosecution, or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this chapter whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in amendatory ordinance.
(Ord. 618, passed 9-17-84)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Dogs running at large
   
91.02   Noisy dogs and cats prohibited
   
91.03   Fierce or dangerous dogs prohibited
   
91.04   Premises to be kept clean
   
91.05   Removal of excrement
   
91.06   Dog license required
   
91.07   Rabies control
   
91.08   Impoundment of animals
   
91.09   Neglected or abandoned animals
   
91.10   Number of household pets permitted
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person having the
possession, care, custody or control, to permit any dog to run at large upon
the public streets, walks, parks, or other public places within the city,
unless attached to a leash of sufficient strength.
(Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 NOISY DOGS AND CATS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog or cat which
shall cause annoyance or disturbance to persons by frequent and habitual
barking, howling or yelping.
(Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FIERCE OR DANGEROUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any fierce or dangerous
dog or any dog which:
   (A)   Runs and barks at pedestrians or vehicles,
   (B)   Destroys property, or
   (C)   Bites any human being.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 668, passed 4-4-88; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous animals, see M.C.L.A. §§ 287.321 et seq.
§ 91.04 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   The owner or custodian of any dog shall maintain the premises where the dog
is kept in a clean and sanitary condition free from feces, rodents, vermin and
disagreeable odors.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 668, passed 4-4-88; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of any dog or cat shall be
responsible for the removal of any excrement deposited by such dog or cat on
public thoroughfares, sidewalks, parks, or any public property whatsoever, or
upon any private property.
   (B)   Any person owning or having charge of a dog or cat, which deposits
excrement on public or private property, other than the property of the
animal's owner or keeper, shall, upon being made aware of such fact,
immediately remove such excrement and dispose in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   No person owning or having charge of a dog or cat shall cause or
permit such dog or cat to be on public or private property, not owned or
possessed by such person, unless such person has in his or her immediate
possession an appropriate device for the removal of excrement and disposal in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 762, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain, keep or harbor any dog
within the city without first procuring a license as prescribed by state law.
Application for a license shall be made to the City or County Treasurer and
shall state the breed, sex, age, color and markings of the dog, and the name
and address of the applicant and the last known previous owner. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of a licensed veterinarian showing that
the dog has been vaccinated against rabies.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-25-74; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   If any person is bitten by a dog, it shall be the duty of that
person, or the owner or custodian of the dog having knowledge of same, to
report same to the Police Department within 12 hours thereafter.
      (2)   If the owner or custodian of any dog has any reason to believe or
suspect that such dog has become affected with rabies, it shall be the duty of
that person to report the to the Police Department within 12 hours thereafter.
   (B)   In the event of any report to it as set forth in divisions (A)(1) and
(2) above, the Police Department may seize such dog and deliver it to the
Isabella County Animal Control.
(Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any stray dog or cat found at large may be impounded by the City and/
or Isabella County Animal Control, and confined in a humane manner.
   (B)   Immediately upon impounding an animal, the city, and/or Isabella
County Animal Control, shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner
and inform such owner of the conditions whereby custody of the animal may be
regained.
   (C)   All stray dogs and cats that are not spayed or neutered and which have
not been claimed shall be spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian
according to Michigan state law unless the animal is deemed medically unfit to
undergo the procedure.
   (D)   No dog or cat impounded will be euthanized unless deemed necessary by
a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
§ 91.09 NEGLECTED OR ABANDONED ANIMALS.
   The city and/or Isabella County Animal Control, may impound any animal found
to be cruelly exposed to the weather, starved or denied adequate water,
neglected, abandoned or otherwise treated in a cruel manner and may deliver
such animal to another person to be sheltered, cared for and given medical
attention, if necessary.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
§ 91.10 NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLD PETS PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor four or more dogs and/or
cats over four months of age on that person’s premises within the city. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to an animal shelter, kennel, pet
store, veterinary hospital, veterinary clinic, or pet grooming facility that is
in compliance with all applicable licensing and zoning regulations.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Any person violating the following
designated provisions of this chapter shall be held responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and prosecuted in accordance with the Municipal Civil
Infractions Ordinance:
   
91.01   Dogs running at large
   
91.02   Noisy dogs prohibited
   
91.04   Premises to be kept clean
   
91.05   Removal of excrement
   
91.06   Dog license required
   
91.07   Rabies control
   
91.10   Number of household pets permitted
      (1)   The fine for violation of a municipal civil infraction under §§
91.01,
91.02,
91.04,
91.06,
91.07, and
91.10 shall be $50; the second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent
violation within any one calendar year, $250.
      (2)   The fine for violation of §
91.05 shall be $20; the second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent
violation within any one calendar year, $250.
   (B)   Criminal misdemeanor. Any person violating any provision of this
chapter, with the exception of those specifically set forth in division (A)
above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 762, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 1069, passed 7-12-21)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERY REGULATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Rules and regulations of Riverside Cemetery adopted
   
92.02   Service charges
   
92.03    Prohibited behavior
 
   
92.99    Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Park regulations applicable to Riverside Cemetery, see §
97.01
§ 92.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF RIVERSIDE CEMETERY ADOPTED.
   The Rules and Regulations of Riverside Cemetery, dated February, 1998, are
adopted by reference and made a part of this code. The Commission may, by
resolution, adopt new rules or amendments to the rules for the operation of
Riverside Cemetery.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 532, passed 9-19-77; Am. Ord. 593, passed 4-5-82;
Am. Ord. 813, passed 2-23-98)
§ 92.02 SERVICE CHARGES.
   The Commission shall by resolution determine the fees and charges for the
sale of spaces and lots and for services performed in Riverside Cemetery.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 532, passed 9-19-77)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   No person shall mark, deface, disfigure, tamper with, displace or remove a
cemetery headstone, marker, monument, or like item in Riverside Cemetery.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-23-98)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Any person violating the rules and
regulations of Riverside Cemetery shall be held responsible for a municipal
civil lnfraction and prosecuted in accordance withthe municipal civil
infractions ordinance. The fine for violation of a rule or regulation of
Riverside Cemetery shall be $50; second violation, $100; and the third or any
subsequent violation within any one calendar year, $250.
   (B)   Criminal misdemeanor. Any person violating §
92.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 813, passed 2-23-98)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
International Fire Code
   
93.01   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
93.02   References in Code; changes in Code; enforcement
   
93.03   Burning regulations
   
93.04   Residual clean-up following a fire
   
93.05   Cost recovery
   
93.06   Maintenance of fire suppression equipment
   
93.07   Activation of fire alarm systems
   
93.08   Compliance with orders
   
93.09   Authorized emergency vehicles/ equipment
   
93.10   Authority to remove obstructions
   
93.11   Certification required
   
93.12   Fire Department connections
   
93.13   Self-service gas stations
   
93.14   Reserved
   
93.15   Indoor pyrotechnics
   
93.16   Reserved
   
93.17   Review fees
   
93.18   Fee schedule
   
93.19   Appeals
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For fireworks regulations, see
Ch. 133
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The International Fire Code, 2012 Edition, including Appendices A-J,
as published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the Fire
Code of the City of Mt. Pleasant, Michigan, regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said International Fire Code are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Mt. Pleasant.
      (2)   Section 109.4 Insert: Misdemeanor not to exceed $500 and/or not
exceeding 90 days in jail.
      (3)   Section 111.4 Insert: The fine shall be not less than $50 or more
than $500.
   (C)   The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Section 5806.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): As regulated by State
of Michigan.
      (2)   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of
Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is
prohibited): As regulated by State of Michigan.
      (3)   Section 5706.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class
I and Class I liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited): As regulated by
State of Michigan.
      (4)   Section 6104.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested
areas): As regulated by State of Michigan.
   (D)   Whenever applicable state laws or regulations impose a higher
requirement or standard than is provided in this Fire Code, the higher
requirement or standard shall prevail.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter or in the International Fire Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause of causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this chapter.
   (F)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter
is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city hereby
declares that it would have passed this chapter, and each section, subsection,
clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared
unconstitutional.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 943, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 1008, passed
4-11-16)
§ 93.02 REFERENCES IN CODE; CHANGES IN CODE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Where reference is made in the International Fire Code to the
"International Building Code" it shall be held to mean the Michigan Building
Code in effect at the time, as may subsequently be amended.
   (B)   Where reference is made in the International Fire Code to the
"International Mechanical Code" it shall be held to mean the Michigan
Mechanical Code in effect at the time, as may subsequently be amended.
   (C)   All full-time certified firefighters of the Fire Department, under the
supervision of the Director of Public Safety, are hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all of the provisions of the Fire Code. Such personnel
shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer and may issue appearance
tickets in accordance with M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9c-764.9g, or take any other action
necessary for the enforcement of this Fire Code consistent with the city
ordinances and state law.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 943, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 985, passed
1-13-14; Am. Ord. 1008, passed 4-11-16)
§ 93.03 BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application and interpretation. In addition to the provisions of the
Fire Code, which generally prohibits open burning in the city, this section
applies, subject to certain exceptions. In the event of a direct conflict
between this section and the Fire Code, the provisions of this section shall
prevail. Terms that are expressly defined in the Fire Code shall have the same
meanings when used in this section, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (B)   Outdoor cooking. Fires of LP or natural gas, charcoal, or wood chips,
for the purpose of outdoor cooking, are allowed on private property without a
permit, provided that the fires are contained in an appropriate metal, brick,
or other fireproof container designed for cooking purposes, and provided that
such containers are located and operated in compliance with the Fire Code.
   (C)   Residential recreational fires.  The burning of natural or LP gas for
recreational purposes in a contained and regulated manner within a recreational
outdoor portable fire pit or other freestanding container, designed for use in
having safe and controlled outdoor fires, is allowed without a permit, subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   The fire container is located on the site of a one-family or two-
family dwelling.
      (2)   The fire container is not located on any balcony or deck.
      (3)   The fire container is located at least 20 feet from any structure
(including any deck, balcony, or other overhanging structure), combustible
material, lot line, roadway, alleyway, or fence.
      (4)   The fire container is no larger at its largest point than three-
feet wide, three-feet deep, and three-feet tall (exclusive of feet, legs or
chimney), and is made of non-combustible materials.
      (5)   The fire container is UL-certified and installed according to the
manufacturer’s recommendations.
      (6)   There is a 4-A-rated fire extinguisher, garden hose connected to a
water supply, or other means of fire suppression readily available for
immediate use.
      (7)   The fire is constantly attended by a competent adult at least 18
years of age until the fire is extinguished.
      (8)   Burning of yard waste, leaves, trash, refuse, building materials,
or other materials is expressly prohibited.
      (9)   Fires are prohibited during any times of high fire risk identified
by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, or during burning bans imposed
by the state or city.
      (10)   If the Fire Code Official, or his or her designee, or a police
officer determines that any open burning is unsafe due to dry weather, wind
conditions or other unfavorable conditions, or the impact on air quality or the
health of nearby residents, or the open burning causes a foul odor reasonably
offensive to the occupants of nearby properties, such officer may order the
open burning to be extinguished, or may impose reasonable conditions on the
open burning.
   (D)   Other outdoor fires. Other types of outdoor fires, such as bonfires,
ground fires, or other similar fires not covered by divisions (B) or (C), are
allowed only with a permit issued pursuant to Section 105.6 of the Fire Code.
Gas-fueled fires in UL-certified containers are also allowed with a permit on
commercial premises, including hotel premises. Bonfires shall be no more than
five feet by five feet in size, and shall be subject to other regulations as
deemed appropriate by the Fire Code Official to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   (E)   Burning of building materials. Open burning for building demolition or
destruction of excess construction materials is allowed only with a permit
issued pursuant to Section 105.6 of the Fire Code. Open burning of building
materials is also permitted for purposes of Fire Department training.
   (F)   Permit fees. The City Commission may establish by resolution fees for
open-burning permits.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 1023, passed 4-24-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 RESIDUAL CLEAN-UP FOLLOWING A FIRE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, if any dangerous or hazardous waste
occurs as a result of a fire or as a result of any other occurrence, such waste
shall be disposed of and cleaned up by the property owner, at the property
owner's sole cost, in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
statutes, ordinances and/or regulations.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the owner of real property or
personal property which causes or contributes to a dangerous or hazardous
condition or condition that may cause environmental pollution or otherwise
violates the Fire Code shall be required to reimburse the city for all costs
incurred by the city in remediating or mitigating such dangerous or hazardous
condition, or condition that may pollute or be a violation of the Fire Code.
   (B)   Except as provided by applicable law, the city and its employees shall
not be liable for any costs or damages incurred by any person as a result of
the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.06 MAINTENANCE OF FIRE SUPPRESSION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A person shall not obstruct, remove, tamper with or otherwise disturb
any fire hydrant or fire appliance required to be installed or maintained under
provisions of the Fire Code, except for the purpose of extinguishing fire,
training or testing purposes, recharging or making necessary repairs or when
permitted by the Fire Code Official. Whenever a fire appliance is removed as
herein permitted, it shall be replaced or reinstalled as soon as the purpose
for which it was removed has been accomplished. Defective and non-approved fire
appliances or equipment shall be replaced or repaired as directed by the Fire
Code Official.
   (B)   A person shall not use or operate any fire hydrant intended for use of
the Fire Department for fire suppression purposes unless such person first
obtains permission and secures a permit for such use from the Department of
Public Works.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.07 ACTIVATION OF FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   A person or entity shall not activate a fire alarm system in any building or
place within the city unless a valid fire emergency exists within that building
or place. A fire alarm system is any system which, upon activation, warns the
occupants of the building or place that a fire emergency exists.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.08 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully hinder,
obstruct, endanger, or interfere with any firefighter or other public safety
personnel in the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while in the vicinity of any fire
or other emergency incident, to willfully disobey any reasonable order or rule
of the Fire Official commanding any public safety personnel or equipment at a
fire or other emergency incident.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly be or remain on public property or
the unenclosed private property of another within 300 feet of a fire (except a
bonfire permitted as provided in this chapter), except persons attempting to
put out or contain the fire prior to the arrival of public safety personnel;
firefighters, police officers, or other emergency personnel discharging their
duties as such; or other persons given express permission to remain by the fire
incident commander or on-site supervisor of the public safety department. This
division shall not apply to a person awaiting arrival of public safety
personnel in order to provide information about the fire, the structures
involved, or other information that could be useful to public safety personnel,
such as, but not limited to information about the origin of the fire, whether
any occupants could be in any structure involved, materials that may be in the
structure of vicinity of the fire, persons observed in the vicinity of the
fire, words or noises heard, and the condition of any structures involved.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 987, passed 4-28-14; Am. Ord. 988, passed
6-23-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES/EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A person shall not, without proper authorization from the Fire
Official commanding any Fire Department emergency equipment, cling to, attach
himself or herself to, climb upon or into, board or swing upon any Fire
Department emergency vehicle, whether same is in motion or at rest.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface or attempt to
conspire to damage or deface any Fire Department emergency vehicle at any time,
or to injure Fire Department personnel while performing departmental duties.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.10 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE OBSTRUCTIONS.
   If any vehicle, trailer or other object is so located within a fire
apparatus access road or at any other location prohibited by this chapter at a
time the Fire Department is responding to an alarm which necessitates use of
such fire apparatus access road and/or other said location, then any member of
the Police or Fire Department may move or cause same to be moved by any means
necessary without liability for any damage being caused by the city or any
officer, agent or employee thereof.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
§ 93.11 CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any installation, testing, repair or maintenance of fire alarm or
suppression systems required by this Fire Code or the Building Code shall be
performed only by a certified fire alarm or suppression firm and/or individual
or by a firm and/or individual licensed pursuant to Act 192 of the Public Acts
of 1984, as amended, and/or Act 217 of the Public Acts of 1956, as amended,
and/or Act 144 of the Public Acts of 1982, as amended, whichever is applicable.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
§ 93.12 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS.
   In any required National Fire Protection Association ("NFPA") standard 13
sprinkler system equipped with a Fire Department connection, the connection
shall be located within 150 feet of a fire hydrant. NFPA standard 13 systems
that include Fire Department connections supplying standpipes shall comply with
fire hydrant distance as referenced in NFPA standard 14. Hydrant distance to
Fire Department connections supplying residential NFPA standard 13R systems are
subject to the approval by the local fire official.
   (A)   A horn and white strobe light shall be installed directly above the
Fire Department connection and shall be connected to the water flow alarm valve
or water flow switch. A water flow alarm valve or water flow switch activation
shall activate the horn and strobe.
   (B)   Approved supervised water flow switches and indicating control valves
shall be provided at the point of connection to the sprinkler riser on each
floor in all buildings required to be equipped with an automatic suppression
system.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 985, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 1008, passed
4-11-16) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 SELF-SERVICE GAS STATIONS.
   The owner or lessee of a self-service gasoline station shall conspicuously
post at all times at the approved emergency controls, the regulations governing
self-service stations, as prescribed by the Fire Code Official. All persons in
charge of the premises shall be familiar with all provisions of the
regulations.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.14 RESERVED.
§ 93.15 INDOOR PYROTECHNICS.
   All indoor pyrotechnic displays shall be in accordance with NFPA 1126. In
addition, a permit to conduct indoor pyrotechnic displays shall be required.
The permit shall be obtained from the Fire Code Official prior to the display.
All applicable fees shall be submitted to the Fire Department prior to the
display.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.16 RESERVED.
§ 93.17 REVIEW FEES.
   When at the discretion of the Fire Code Official plans and specifications
are required to be reviewed by an outside consultant, the person or firm
submitting the plans and specifications shall be responsible for the total
consulting fees plus a 10% administrative charge. The Fire Code Official shall
select the consultant. Consulting fees or charges shall be paid to the city by
the applicant before the review will be undertaken.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
§ 93.18 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Commission, shall by resolution, adopt a fee schedule, which may be
amended from time to time. A copy of the fee schedule shall be maintained by
the Fire Code Official, or designee, and by the City Clerk, and shall be
available for inspection by the public upon request.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
§ 93.19 APPEALS.
   (A)   Whenever a Fire Code Official or designee, disapproves an application
or refuses to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the Fire Code do not apply or that the intent and/or meaning of
the Fire Code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may
appeal from the decision of the Fire Code Official to the Building, Fire and
Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals created in division (B) of this section within
30 days from the date of the decision.
   (B)   There shall be created a Building, Fire and Sanitary Sewer Board of
Appeals consisting of six members who are qualified by experience and training
to interpret matters covered by the Fire Code. The Building, Fire and Sanitary
Sewer Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Commission and shall hold
office at its pleasure.
   (C)   The Building, Fire and Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals shall adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for conducting an investigation and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the Fire Code Official, or
designee, with a duplicate copy to the appellant.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire Code or any
order made pursuant to the Fire Code, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved, or any
certificate or permit issued, and from which no appeal has been taken or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed, or modified by the Fire
Code Official or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally, for each and every such violation of noncompliance,
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500 and/or imprisonment not to exceed 90 days in jail. The imposition of one
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each ten days that a prohibited condition is maintained shall
constitute a separate offense. Any violation of the Fire Code by any employee
shall be deemed the act of the employer as well as the person actually
violating the Code, and such employer shall also be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 and/or imprisonment not to exceed 90
days for each violation.
(Ord. 919, passed 4-24-06)
CHAPTER 94: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 95: MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Section
   
95.01   Declaration of intent
   
95.02   Compliance with rules and regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DECLARATION OF INTENT.
   The Rules and Regulations for the Operation of the Mount Pleasant Municipal
Airport shall be adopted by ordinance by the Commission and are intended to
provide for the development and regulation of aeronautic-related activities on
the Municipal Airport by establishing uniform regulations consistent with those
of the federal and state agencies in order that those engaged in such
activities may do so with the least possible restriction consistent with the
safety and rights of others and the public's welfare. For the purpose of
administration, these rules and regulations shall be so interpreted.
(Ord. passed 12-15-73)
§ 95.02 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All rules and regulations enacted by the Michigan Aeronautics
Commission and/or the Federal Aviation Administration relative to airmen,
aircraft, air traffic, and airports, now in effect, or any amendments adopted
in the future are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter
as fully as if the same and each and all of them were completely set forth
herein.
   (B)   The Airport Manager, or his/her designated representative shall be
responsible for the enforcement of all rules and regulations governing the
airport.
   (C)   No person shall violate or refuse to obey any rule or regulation as
set forth herein. Any person violating such regulations or refusing to comply
may be promptly removed from the airport, or temporarily grounded upon order of
the Airport Manager or the City Manager, and may be deprived of further use of
airport property and airport facilities for such time as may be required to
ensure safeguarding persons and property.
(Ord. passed 12-15-73)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be held
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and prosecuted in accordance with
the Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The fine for violation of a
municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be $500.
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
   
96.01   Public nuisances defined
   
96.02   Reserved
   
96.03   Noises prohibited
   
96.04   Nuisance gathering
   
96.05   Lawn maintenance; height; removal of noxious weeds
   
96.06   Deposit of unwholesome substances
   
96.07   Injurious substances
   
96.08   Drainage of lots, excavations, cellars
   
96.09   Reserved
   
96.10   Pigeon lofts and carrier pigeons
   
96.11   Public nudity
   
96.12   Notice of abatement
   
96.13   Lighting standards
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous property; weed control; procedures; notice to owner, see Charter
Art. XIII, § 6
§ 96.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose
of the public; interferes with or destroys or renders dangerous any street,
highway or navigable stream; allows accumulation of junk or obnoxious matters
on private property; or in any way renders the public insecure in life or
property is declared to be a public nuisance. Public nuisances shall include,
but not be limited to, whatever is forbidden by any provision of this chapter
and the common and statute law of this state.
Statutory reference:
   For definition of nuisance under state law, see M.C.L.A. § 125.402
§ 96.02 RESERVED.
§ 96.03 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Loud or disturbing noises prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any excessive,
unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others,
within the limits of the city.
   (B)   Prohibitions. The following prohibited acts, although not to be
considered exclusive, are declared to be unlawful:
      (1)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus, street car or other vehicle while not in
motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently
out of control, or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in
motion, as a danger signal after or as brakes are are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   Radio and musical instruments. The playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, or any musical instruments in such a manner or with
such volume at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort,
or repose of persons in any office or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of
residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
      (3)   Shouting and whistling. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing or the making of any other loud noise on the public streets at any time
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any
office, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any
persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Hawking. The hawking of goods, merchandise or newspapers in a loud
and boisterous manner so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of any other person in the area;
      (5)   Animal and bird noises. The keeping of any animals or birds which
by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any person;
      (6)   Whistle or siren. The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger;
      (7)   Engine exhausts. The discharge into the open air or the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents loud
explosive noises;
      (8)   Construction noises. The erection (including excavating),
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, the excavation of streets
and highways, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., unless a
permit be first obtained from the Division of Public Works and/or building
official;
      (9)   Handling merchandise. The creating of a loud and excessive noise in
connection with loading and unloading any vehicle or the opening and
destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers;
      (10)   Devices to attract attention. The use of any drum, loud speaker,
amplifier, or otherinstrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention
of any purpose without first obtaining permission from the City Manager or his
designee.
(Ord. 869, passed 2-25-02; Am. Ord. 898, passed 6-14-04)
§ 96.04 NUISANCE GATHERING.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Commission finds that there are parties or
gatherings on premises in the city that are unsafe or are a public nuisance.
These gatherings can involve alcoholic beverages that are illegally sold and/or
provided to individuals in attendance, including underage individuals. These
gatherings can result in excessive noise and traffic, excessive consumption of
alcohol, overcrowding of the premises, and other ordinance and state law
violations. The City Commission desires to protect the public from such public
nuisances.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      NUISANCE GATHERING. A gathering, party or meeting that is conducted on or
within any premises located within the city and which, by reason of the conduct
of persons hosting or attending, results in one or more of the following
conditions or occurrences:
         (a)   The drinking or possession of alcohol in public or intoxication
that would warrant involuntary commitment under M.C.L.A. § 330.1276, as
amended;
         (b)   The use or possession of any controlled substance, drug, or
immediate precursor enumerated in schedule 1-5 of §§ 7201 to 7231 of the Public
Health Code, 1978 PA 368, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7201 et seq., except as
provided in (c) below with respect to marihuana;
         (c)   The use or possession of one ounce or more of marihuana, except
as permitted by the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, PA 2008, Initiated Law 1,
as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.;
         (d)   Indecent exposure or public nudity in violation of M.C.L.A. §
750.335a, as amended, or §
96.11 of this code;
         (e)   Public urination or defecation;
         (f)   The unlawful sale, furnishing, possession or consumption of
alcoholic or intoxicating beverages in violation M.C.L.A. § 436.1703, as
amended, or §
132.03 of this code;
         (g)   The unlawful dumping, placing or depositing of trash or litter
on public or private property in violation of M.C.L.A. § 750.552a, as amended,
or §§
96.06 or
96.07 of this code;
         (h)   The damage or destruction of public or private property;
         (i)   The generation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic which
obstructs the free flow of traffic within the public rights-of-way or
interferes with the ability to render police or other emergency services;
         (j)   The generation of noise or violations that are audible at a
distance beyond 50 feet from the property line of the premises or from inside a
neighboring building, structure or dwelling unit;
         (k)   Public disturbances, brawls, fights, quarrels or similar
disturbances of the peace in violation of §
131.02 of this code; and
         (l)   Violation of the fire code, building code or zoning ordinance
due to the over-occupancy or overcrowding of a building, structure or dwelling
unit, or any adjacent deck or patio, or the obstruction of stairway or entries
to a building, structure or dwelling unit.
      PREMISES. Any building, structure or dwelling unit, either commercial or
residential, including adjacent exterior property, common areas, yards, and
parking lots. The term PREMISES does not include an establishment operating
with a liquor license issued by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, or a
successor agency.
   (C)   Nuisance gathering prohibited.
      (1)   Nuisance gatherings are declared to be public nuisances and are
prohibited in the city.
      (2)   Any person being the owner, occupant, tenant or otherwise having
any possessory control, individually or jointly with others, of any premises
who either sponsors, conducts, hosts, invites, suffers, permits, continues, or
allows to continue a nuisance gathering at such premises, shall commit a
violation of this code, and upon conviction shall be subject to the penalties
as provided by §
96.99. In any prosecution for a violation of this section, proof of specific of
intent shall not be required as a necessary element.
      (3)   Any person in attendance at a nuisance gathering, whether or not
such person has any possessory control over the premises, shall commit a
violation of this section and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided
in §
96.99 of this code.
(Ord. 619, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 738, passed 4-13-92; Am. Ord. 852, passed
3-26-01; Am. Ord. 981, passed 7-22-13; Am. Ord. 995, passed 6-22-15) Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.05 LAWN MAINTENANCE; HEIGHT; REMOVAL OF NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   Except for properly approved and constructed driveways, walkways and
parking areas, the required front yard setback and required front yard green
area of any improved parcel shall be cultivated with vegetation and/or other
landscaping ground cover.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or his/her agent, of any occupied
or unoccupied property located within the city to:
      (1)   Permit weeds or maintain turf grass on any exterior property area
in excess of 12 inches in height. For purposes of this section, WEEDS shall be
defined as all vegetation other than agricultural crops, cultivated flowers,
cultivated trees or cultivated shrubs.
      (2)   Permit the growing or placement on any exterior property area of
any deleterious, unhealthful growths or other noxious matter. For purposes of
this section, DELETERIOUS, UNHEALTHFUL GROWTHS OR OTHER NOXIOUS MATTER shall
include the following species regulated by the Michigan Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development: fanwort, cylindro, Brazilian elodea,
Japanese knotweed, giant hogweed, hydrilla, European frogbit, African oxygen
weed, parrot's feather, starry stonewort, yellow floating heart, giant
salvinia, water soldier, water chestnut, flowering rush, autumn olive, purple
loosestrife, Eurasian watermilfoil, Phragmites or common reed, curly leaf
pondweed, perennial peppergrass/whitetop/hoary cress, plumeless thistle, musk
thistle, spotted knapweed, Russian knapweed, Canada thistle, bull thistle,
field bindweed, hedge bindweed, dodder, yellow nutsedge/chufa, leafy spurge,
morning glory, serrated tussock, horse nettle, perennial sow thisle,
johnsongrass, puncturevine, velvetleaf, wild onion, wild garlic, wild oat,
yellow rocket, hoary alyssum, Indian mustard, black mustard, jimsonweed, wild
carrot, buckhorn plantain, wild radish, curled dock, giant foxtail, charlock,
nightshade complex, bitter nightshade, silver lead nightshade, black
nightshade, eastern black nightshade, hairy nightshade, and cockleblur.
   (C)   (1)   The following list of native grasses to Michigan are allowed to
be in excess of 12 inches in height. For purposes of this section, native
grasses shall be defined as only the following: Bluestem, big (Andropogon
gerardii), Bluestem, little (Andropogon scoparius), Bottlebrush grass (Hystrix
patula), Grass, ear-leaved brome (Bromus latiglumis), Grass, fowl-manna
(Glyceria striata), Grass, long-awned wood (Brachyelytrum erectum), Hardstem
bulrush (Scirpus acutus, Schoenoplectus acutus), Indian grass (Sorghastrum
nutans), Junegrass (Koeleria macrantha), Prairie cordgrass (Spartina
pectinata), Purple lovegrass (Eragrostis spectabilis), Rush, path (Juncus
tenuis), Rush, softstemmed (Juncus effusus), Sedge, awl-fruited (Carex
stipata), Sedge, fox (Carex vulpinoidea), Sedge, fringed (Carex crinita),
Sedge, graceful (Carex gracillima), Sedge, Gray's (Carex grayi), Sedge, long-
beaked (Carex sprengelii), Sedge, palm (Carex muskingumensis), Sedge,
Pennsylvania (Carex pensylvanica), Sedge, tussock (Carex stricta), Switch grass
(Panicum virgatum), Wild rye, Canada (Elymus canadensis), Wild rye, silky
(Elymus villosus), and Woolgrass (Scirpus cyperinus).
      (2)   Native grasses are to be managed so as not to cause vision
obstructions for vehicular traffic, interfere with sidewalk use and or other
safety concerns as determined by the City Manager or their designee.
   (D)   The City Manager or the City Manager's designee is authorized to
publish a notice in the newspaper of general circulation in the city by March
31 of each year that any weeds or turf grass higher than 12 inches in height,
at any time after May 1 shall be cut and maintained at a height less than 12
inches, and that any deleterious, unhealthful growths or other noxious matter
shall be destroyed and removed.
   (E)   Any weeds or turf grass higher than 12 inches in height after May 1
may be cut by a representative of the city, after notice is first provided in
accordance with division (F) below. The city may cause a property to be mowed
as many times as is necessary in order to meet the standards of this section.
Any deleterious, unhealthful growths or other noxious matter may be destroyed
and removed by a representative of the city after notice is first provided in
accordance with division (F) below. Provided, however, notice need only be
given once in any calendar year for the conditions on any parcel in the city.
   (F)   If any weeds or turf grass on any parcel of property in the city reach
a height of nine inches after May 1, or there exists on any parcel of property
in the city any deleterious, unhealthful or other noxious plants as defined in
division (B)(2) above, the City Manager or the City Manager's designee is
authorized to notify, in writing, the owner and/or tenant(s) of any premises to
cut such weeds or turf grass or remove such deleterious, unhealthful or other
noxious plants so as to comply with this section, providing at least two days
after the receipt of that notice in which to comply with it. Such notice shall
be by hand delivery or by first-class mail and posting upon the premises. Such
notice shall be addressed and may be mailed to the last known owner as shown on
the city's tax assessment records and shall be deemed received if served by
first-class mail and posting three business days after mailing.
   (G)   When the city cuts, destroys or removes weeds, turf grass or
deleterious, unhealthful growths or other noxious matter in violation of this
section, or has paid for its removal, the actual cost, plus accrued interest at
the rate of 1% per month from the date of the completion of the work, if not
paid by such owner, shall be charged to the owner of such property on the next
regular tax bill forwarded to such owner by the city. The charge shall be due
and payable by the owner at the time of payment of the tax bill.
   (H)   Where the full amount due the city is not paid by such owner within 60
days after the cutting, destroying and/or removal of such weeds, turf grass or
deleterious, unhealthful growths or other noxious matter, as set forth in
divisions (D) through (F) above, then, and in that case, the City Manager shall
cause to be recorded in the Treasurer's office of the city a sworn statement,
showing the cost and expense incurred for the work, and the date, place or
property on which the work was done, and the recordation of such sworn
statement shall constitute a lien on the property, and shall remain in full
force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of
court, if any, for collection until final payment has been made. The costs and
expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of
taxes, and, further, shall be subject to a delinquent penalty of 1% per month
in the event it is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon
which the charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn statements recorded in
accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all
legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been properly
and satisfactorily done, and shall be full notice that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated
or described in the statement and is due and collectible as provided by law.
   (I)   Compliance with the requirements of this section shall be conducted in
a manner that controls stormwater runoff and prevents erosion, siltation and
dust.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 611, passed 1-14-84; Am. Ord. 660, passed 7-6-87;
Am. Ord. 948, passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord. 977, passed 1-28-13; Am. Ord. 1097,
passed 8-26-24) Penalty, see §
 96.99
§ 96.06 DEPOSIT OF UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall throw, place, deposit or leave in the street, sidewalk, or
any public place, any animal or vegetable substance, dead animals, fish,
shavings, dirt, rubbish, excrement, filth, unclean or nauseous water or liquor
or substance whatever which may cause any offensive, unwholesome, or nauseous
smell, or endanger the health of the public.
Penalty, see § 96.99
Cross-reference:
   Addition of substances to water supply, §
52.34
§ 96.07 INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall throw, place, deposit or leave in any street, highway, land,
alley, public place, or in any private place or premises, any glass, broken or
unbroken, or any metal, stone, earthenware, tacks, cinders or other substances
of a nature likely to cause injury to travelers or pedestrians, automobiles,
bicycles, or vehicles, or to injure any horse or other animal.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.08 DRAINAGE OF LOTS, EXCAVATIONS, CELLARS.
   If any lands, excavations, cellar, vault, sewer, drain, place or premises
within the city shall be damp, unwholesome, offensive or filthy, or be covered
during any portion of the year with stagnant or impure water, or shall be in
such condition as to produce offensive exhalations, the Commission or Building
Official may require the same to be drained, filled up, cleansed or purified by
the owner, or occupant, or person in charge of such lot, premises or place.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.09 RESERVED.
§ 96.10 PIGEON LOFTS AND CARRIER PIGEONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the health and
safety of the community by regulating and controlling the raising, keeping and
exercising of carrier and racing pigeons in order to prevent disease and
nuisance within the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CARRIER PIGEON. Homing and racing pigeons which have the name of the owner
stamped upon the wing or tail, or are banded upon the leg with the name or
initials of the owner or with an identification or registration number stamped
on the band.
   LOFT. Any structure in which carrier pigeons are housed.
   RACING PIGEON. A pigeon registered with a national pigeon racing
organization and used as a game competitive bird.
   (C)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a loft or raise,
keep, or exercise carrier and racing pigeons within the city limits without
first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (D)   Application. The applicant shall file an application for such a permit
with the city. The applicant shall pay a filing fee of $20. The application
shall include a statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence
showing that the construction and operation of the proposed loft will conform
to the standards set forth in division (E) below. The application shall also
include the name of the pigeon club or organization the birds are registered
with, a contact person within the organization and a phone number where this
person can be reached.
   (E)   Standards. No permit shall be issued by the city unless the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   All pigeons must be kept and maintained in a pigeon loft as is
defined in this section.
      (2)   The pigeon loft shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner
at all times and shall be subject to periodic inspection.
      (3)   The pigeon loft shall be of a size sufficient to house the number
of pigeons contemplated. In no case shall there be more than one pigeon per
2.25 square feet of loft space nor more than 50 total pigeons. Lofts shall be
located on the property in a manner than would place such loft the greatest
distance from all adjoining and adjacent dwellings, but in no circumstance can
such loft be less than 40 feet from any dwelling, except for those lofts in
existence at the time of passage of these regulations.
      (4)   All premises on which such pigeons are kept and maintained shall at
all times be kept clean and free from filth, garbage, and such other substances
that attract rodents.
      (5)   All pigeons shall be fed within the confines of the loft or
premises in which such pigeons are housed and contained.
      (6)   Housing of pigeons shall not be permitted in a dwelling house.
      (7)   All grains and food stored for the use and feeding of such pigeons
shall be kept in a rodent-proof container.
      (8)   Racing pigeons will not be released or exercised less than six
hours after having been fed.
      (9)   No more than 25 pigeons may be released or exercised in one day.
      (10)   Pigeons may be released or exercised only between the hours of 5:
00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (11)   The owner will maintain a log book which contains the following
information:
         (a)   Pigeon band number;
         (b)   Pigeon plastic band color;
         (c)   Time out or released;
         (d)   Time returned; and
         (e)   Type of domestic pigeon.
   (F)   Conditions and safeguards. The permit, when granted, shall be in full
force and effect only as long as the owner of said loft retains ownership at
that particular location.
   (G)   Authority and inspection. The city or its designee is authorized and
directed to enforce all the provisions of this section.
   (H)   Fees. An annual license fee of $20 shall be charged.
   (I)   Penalties.
      (1)   Finding of violation. Upon finding of violation of the provisions
of this section, the city shall notify the owner of the pigeons. The owner
shall then have 14 days to remedy the violations. After this 14-day period, the
city shall reinspect the loft to determine if violations still exist.
      (2)   Revocation of permit.  
         (a)   If violations continue to exist past the 14-day period, the city
shall revoke any permit issued under the provisions of this section.
         (b)   If a license is cited for violations of this section three times
in a 12-month period, said license shall be permanently revoked.
   (J)   Applicability. Owners of existing pigeon lofts as well as proposed
lofts shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 785, passed 5-13-96)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.11 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are to:
      (1)   Protect and secure the public health, safety and general welfare of
persons and property through the prohibition of public nudity within the city.
      (2)   Provide penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
section, to repeal any ordinance or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
and to provide an effective date of said section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   PUBLIC NUDITY. The knowing or intentional display in a public place, or for
payment or promise of payment of an admission fee of:
      (1)   Any individual's genitals or anus with less than a fully opaque
covering; or
      (2)   A female individual's breast with less than a fully opaque covering
of the nipple and areola.
   PUBLIC NUDITY does not include: a woman's breastfeeding of a baby, whether
or not the nipple or areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2,  being M.C.L.A. § 752.362,
as amended; or, sexually explicit visual material as defined in Public Act 33
of 1978, § 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673, as amended.
   (C)   Public nudity prohibited. No person shall engage in public nudity. No
business establishment, including, but not limited to owners, officers, persons
in charge of or control of the premises shall permit persons to engage in
public nudity.
(Ord. 783, passed 3-11-96)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.12 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT.
   In the event any officer, or authorized agent, of the city shall determine
that there exists a nuisance within the meaning of this chapter and code,
notice shall be served on the owner or occupant of the premises on which the
nuisance exists, and require the owner or occupant to abate said nuisance
within the time specified in the notice. Service of the notice shall be made:
   (A)   By delivering the same at the residence, office or place of business
with some person of suitable age or discretion;
   (B)   By mailing said notice by certified mail to such owner or occupant at
the last known address; or
   (C)   If the owner or person is unknown, by posting said notice in some
conspicuous place on the premises for five days.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 439, passed 4-20-70; Am. Ord. 602, passed 3-21-83)
§ 96.13 LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the public by encouraging lighting practices and systems that
will minimize glare, light trespass, and light pollution and conserve energy
and resources while maintaining nighttime safety, utility, security and
productivity, and curtailing the degradation of the nighttime visual
environment.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Any property having a  common lot line or that would have a common
lot line if the abutting street, alley or right-of-way were to be vacated.
   ADJUSTABLE LIGHT FIXTURE. Any  fixture containing an adjustment screw which
allows the aiming or adjustment of the light fixture or any fixture that can be
retrofitted with a shield at a cost equal or less than 10% of the cost of a
replacement fixture.
   BEAM. The spatial distribution of the  emitted light from a light fixture.
   BULB. A source of light.
   CANDELA (CD). The unit of measurement  of the intensity of a point source of
light (approximately equal to one candle power).
   EFFECTIVE DATE. This section shall take  effect 30 days following adoption
by the Mt. Pleasant City Commission.
   EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES.  Outdoor  light fixtures already installed at the
time this section is adopted.
   FLOODLIGHT or SPOTLIGHT. Any light  fixture or lamp that incorporates a
reflector or refractor to concentrate the light output into a directional beam.
   FOOTCANDLE (FC). The illuminance  measured one foot from a one candela
source.
   FOOTCANDLE, HORIZONTAL and VERTICAL. The illuminance measured by a light
meter in those positions. Illuminance may also be measured in other specified
positions or directions.
   FULL CUTOFF. A shielded light fixture  that emits no light above a
horizontal plane touching the lowest part of the fixture.
   GLARE. The sensation produced by  luminance within the visual field that is
sufficiently greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted that
causes annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   HID LAMP. In a discharge lamp, the  emitted energy (light) is produced by
the passage of an electric current through a gas. High-intensity discharge
(HID) includes mercury, metal halide and high-pressure sodium lamps. Other
discharge lamps are LPS and fluorescent. Some such lamps have internal coatings
to convert some of the ultraviolet energy emitted by the gas discharge into
visual output.
   HOLIDAY LIGHTING. Festoon type  lights limited to small individual bulbs on
a string where the output per bulb is no greater than 15 lumens.
   ILLUMINANCE. The intensity of light in  a specified direction measured at a
specified point.
   LAMP. The component of the luminaire  that produces the actual light
including luminous tube lighting.
   LIGHT FIXTURE. The assembly that holds or contains a lamp or bulb and may
include an assembly housing, a mounting bracket or pole socket, a lamp holder,
a ballast, a reflector or mirror, and a refractor or lens. A LIGHT FIXTURE also
includes the assembly for luminous tube and fluorescent lighting.
   LIGHT POLLUTION. Any adverse effect  of man-made light. Often used to denote
urban sky glow.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light emitted by a  lighting installation that falls outside
the boundaries of the property on which the installation is sited.
   LIGHTING, PRIVATE. Outdoor light  fixtures located on property owned or
controlled by individual persons, including, but not limited to families,
partnerships, corporations, and other entities.
   LIGHTING, PUBLIC. Outdoor light  fixtures located on property owned, leased,
or controlled by the city, including but not limited to streets, highways,
alleys, easements, parking lots, parks, playing fields, schools, institutions,
meeting places, and all entities completely or partly funded by grants obtained
by the city or its agents from federal, state or private sources.
   LUMEN. The unit of luminous flux, the  total amount of light falling
uniformly on or passing through an area of one square foot, each of which is
one foot from a one candela source, yielding an illuminance of one footcandle
at that distance (the output of lamps and bulbs is customarily measured in
lumens, a common 100 watt incandescent light bulb, for example, having an
output less than 1,800 lumens).
   LUMINAIRE. A complete lighting unit  consisting of a lamp or lamps together
with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the
lamps and to connect the lamps to the power supply.
   LUMINOUS TUBE LIGHTING. Gas filled  tubing which, when subjected to high
voltage, becomes luminescent in a color characteristic of the particular gas
used, e.g. neon, argon, etc.
MERCURY VAPOR FIXTURE. Any  fixture that utilizes a HID lamp where the light is
produced by radiation from mercury vapor.
   NON-ADJUSTABLE LIGHT FIXTURE. Any light fixture not containing an adjustment
screw to permit the aiming or adjustment of the light fixture or that can only
be shielded or retrofitted at a cost greater than 10% of the cost of a
replacement fixture. An internally lit sign will be considered a non-adjustable
light fixture.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE. Outdoor  artificial illuminating devices, outdoor
fixtures, lamps and other similar devices, permanently installed or portable,
used for flood lighting, general illumination or advertisement.
   RESIDENTIALLY ZONED PROPERTY.  Any property within the city limits of Mt.
Pleasant zoned any of the following classifications: R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, M-1,
M-1, PRD and any property located in the Charter Township of Union zoned R-1,
R-2A, R-2B, R-3, R-4, R-5.
   SAG-LENS or DROP-LENS. A clear or  prismatic refracting lens that extends
below the lowest opaque portion of a light fixture.
   SPORTS FACILITIES. Lighting at public  and private outdoor sports
facilities, including but not limited to playing fields, arenas, tracks and
swimming pools.
   STREET LIGHT. Light fixtures in public  rights-of-way, either owned by the
City of Mt. Pleasant or the public utility providing lighting to the city.
   STROBE LIGHT. A flash lamp that produces high intensity short duration light
pulses by electric discharge in a gas.
   (C)   Submittal requirements.  
      (1)   The following information must be included for all site plans
required to be submitted to the Planning Commission in accordance with the
zoning ordinance:
         (a)   Location of all freestanding, building-mounted and canopy
outdoor light fixtures on the site plan.
         (b)   All building elevations for all structures on the site plan.
         (c)   Specifications and details for the type(s) of outdoor light
fixture(s) being proposed including the method of shielding.
         (d)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Building Official/
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Site plans required to be submitted to the Planning Commission for
a location which abuts residentially zoned property or is within a
residentially zoned district must also include a photometric grid overlaid
indicating the overall light intensity (in footcandles) at the property lines
of the site.
      (3)   All applications for building permits in all districts shall
include the following:
         (a)   Verification that all outdoor light fixtures with a bulb
producing over 680 lumens shall have a full cut-off style of fixture directed
downward, and that (with the exception of motion activated fixtures) no outdoor
light fixture may create an intensity of light greater than one-half footcandle
at a property line which abuts residentially zoned property or is within a
residentially zoned district.
         (b)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Building Official/
Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Standards. Unless modified by other provisions of this section or
unless exempted under division (E), all lighting must comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   All exterior lighting fixtures at all properties in the city with
bulbs producing more than 680 lumens must be full cut-off or shielded and
directed downward.
      (2)   All light coming from anywhere on any property may not exceed one-
half footcandle of intensity at the property line of abutting residentially
zoned property.
      (3)   Streetlights installed after the effective date shall be full cut-
off fixtures or approved historical design fixtures utilizing a minimum output
consistent with the safety of drivers and pedestrians as specified by
Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA).
      (4)   Strobe lights on towers or antennas shall be prohibited unless
required by the FAA or other government entity.
      (5)   The use of laser light sources, search lights or any similar high
intensity light for outdoor advertisement or entertainment is permitted only
with a special permit from the Mt. Pleasant City Commission and only then for
no more than five days per year, per applicant, for each location.
      (6)   Any activity producing intense light, whether from floodlights or
from high-temperature processes, such as combustion or welding or otherwise,
shall be performed within an enclosure so as to completely obscure and shield
the light from view from any point along the lot lines of the property or from
the sky, except during the period of construction or repair of improvements on
the property.
      (7)   All light bulbs used for the illumination of business
establishments or for the illumination of business buildings or areas
surrounding them, or for the illumination or display of merchandise or products
of business establishments, shall be completely shielded from the view of
vehicular traffic using streets abutting such business properties. Flood lights
used for the illumination of a building or any sign thereon, whether or not
such flood lights are attached to or separate from the building, are permitted
but the lighting shall not project beyond the sign or the wall being
illuminated.
      (8)   Lighting at publicly owned and privately owned outdoor sports
facilities shall be shielded to reduce glare, safety hazards, light trespass
and light pollution, and shall provide levels of illuminance consistent with
nationally recognized standards such as the Illuminating Engineering Society of
North America (IESNA), and shall be operated on a schedule that coincides with
scheduled events.
      (9)   Unshielded sag-lens, drop lens, or mercury vapor fixtures are
prohibited.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following are exempt from the lighting requirements of
this section, except that the Building Officials/Zoning Administrators may take
steps to eliminate the impact of the exempted items when deemed necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public:
      (1)   Holiday decorations.
      (2)   Temporary lighting.
         (a)   Temporary lighting that conforms to the requirements of this
chapter shall be allowed. Nonconforming temporary lighting may be permitted by
the Planning and Zoning Administrator only after considering:
            1.   The public and/or private benefits which will result from the
temporary lighting;
            2.   Any annoyance or safety problems that may result from the use
of the temporary lighting; and
            3.   The duration of the temporary nonconforming lighting.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit a detailed description of the
temporary nonconforming lighting to the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The
administrator shall provide written approval or denial within ten days. If
denied, the written notice shall state the basis for the denial. The applicant
may appeal the denial to the City Manager. The decision of the City Manager is
final. This notification process does not apply to temporary illuminated signs
installed by MDOT, DPS, DPW or other public safety agencies.
      (3)   Flags. No flag lighting may exceed a one-half footcandle at the
property line. However, flags illuminated with a fixture equivalent to the
Bayville-Flaglighter Kit #MF-2348-30-2 may light the flag to the manufacturer's
specifications.
      (4)   Emergency operations. The light standards in this chapter shall not
apply to emergency operations performed under the directive of a public safety
or public works agency, public utility, County Road Commission or Michigan
Department of Transportation.
      (5)   Motion activated fixtures. Motion activated lighting may be
unshielded provided it is located in such a manner as to prevent direct glare
and lighting into properties of others or into a public right-of-way, and
provided the light is set to only go on when activated and to go off within ten
minutes after activation has ceased, and the light shall not be triggered by
activity off the property.
      (6)   Historic theater marquees. Historic theater marquees in the Central
Business District, as defined by the City Zoning Ordinance, are exempt from
this chapter.
      (7)   Signs. Signs are exempt from the provisions of division (D)(1) of
this section.
      (8)   Existing outdoor light fixtures.
         (a)   Existing adjustable outdoor light fixtures installed before the
effective date of this section, if they are installed ten feet above grade, or
less, may continue in service without adjustment or modification for 12 months.
All other existing adjustable outdoor light fixtures installed before the
effective date of this section may continue in service without adjustment or
modification for five years.
         (b)   Existing light fixtures, other than adjustable outdoor light
fixtures, installed before the effective date of this section may continue in
service without adjustment or modification for 25 years.
         (c)   Light fixtures installed after the effective date of this
section, including replacements for existing fixtures, must conform to this
section.
   (F)   Inspection. The Building Official/Zoning Administrator may inspect any
site or outdoor light fixture to determine if the site or outdoor light fixture
complies with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 902, passed 9-13-04)
Penalty see § 96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Municipal civil infraction. Any person violating the following
designated provisions of this chapter shall be held responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and prosecuted in accordance with the Municipal Civil
Infractions Ordinance:
   §
96.05    Lawn Maintenance; Height; Removal of Noxious Weeds
   §
96.09    Inoperative motor vehicles
   §
96.10    Pigeon lofts and carrier pigeons
   §
96.13    Lighting Standards
   The fine for violation of a municipal civil infraction under this chapter
shall be $50; the second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent
violation within any one calendar year, $250. In addition, for a violation of §
96.10, the city shall be reimbursed for any costs incurred by the city in
causing any work to be performed which the respondent has failed to perform.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Criminal misdemeanor. In addition to any penalty or remedy
prescribed by this chapter, any person violating any provision of this chapter,
with the exception of those specifically set forth in division (1) above or
division (B) below, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 776, passed 10-9-95; Ord. 785, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 902, passed 9-13-
04; Am. Ord. 977, passed 1-28-13)
   (B)   Violations of §
96.11 shall be a misdemeanor, subject to penalties, including fines of $500 or
imprisonment up to 90 days, or both fines and imprisonment for each offense, as
well as costs and/or probation. (Ord. 783, passed 3-11-96)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Park operating policy
   
97.03   Enforcement
   
97.04   Fees
Activities by Persons in Parks
   
97.15   Park property
   
97.16   Sanitation
   
97.17   Traffic
   
97.18   Recreational activities
   
97.19   Prohibited behavior
   
97.20   Merchandising, advertising and signs
   
97.21   Unmanned aircraft
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
97.30   Establishment; composition
   
97.31   Organization; officers
   
97.32   Powers and duties
   
97.33   Director of Parks and Recreation
   
97.34   Budget
   
97.35   Annual report
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. A person immediately in charge of any park area and its
activities, and to whom all park attendants of such area are responsible.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area in the city, owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or passive
recreation. The term PARK shall also include Riverside Cemetery.
   PARK ATTENDANT.  Any employee of the city whose job functions include
maintaining, repairing or supervising a park or whose job functions include
enforcing this chapter, including park rangers.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor-powered, animal-drawn, or
self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of or description.
Exception is made for baby carriages and vehicles in the service of the city
parks.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery regulations, see
Chapter 92
§ 97.02 PARK OPERATING POLICY.
   (A)   Park hours. City parks shall be open daily to the public between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. No person shall occupy or be present in any
park during the hours it is not open to the public, provided that city
personnel, police officers on official duty, or other city officers, or
employees on park duty, or other persons with special permits from the Parks
and Recreation Department who are conducting city business are not so
restricted.
   (B)   Closed areas. Any section or part of any park may be declared closed
to the public by the Director at any time, and for any interval of time, either
temporarily, or at regular and stated intervals (dally or otherwise), and
either entirely, or merely to certain uses, as the Director shall find
reasonably necessary.
   (C)   Authority for use of facilities. Any organized club, school,
association, or recognized group desiring the exclusive and/or scheduled use of
specific areas of any park, such as picnic areas, athletic fields and court
areas, or park shelters, must file an application with the Parks and Recreation
Department, and shall not use said area until said permit is granted. The use
of the park shall be in the capable limits of the park.
      (1)   Special permits, agreements and contracts. Any organized club,
school, organization, association. or recognized group desiring the use of a
portion of the park system for money-raising affairs, whether to cover the cost
of operation or for profit, shall file an application with the Parks and
Recreation Department, and pay to the Department as required by the Parks and
Recreation Commission, such fees, charges, rents, or percentages as required by
the Department for such activities and events. The application, among other
information, must designate the portion of the parks desired, where ticket
sales will be set up, or money is to be collected, and how much per person or
other unit of measurement, the location of which shall be under control of the
Parks and Recreation Department. Any fees for the permit may be waived or
refunded at the discretion of the Parks and Recreation Commission.
      (2)   Exclusive use of park. No permit shall be issued for the exclusive
use of any park and no permittee shall exclude the public from the park, charge
any admittance fee, sell tickets or otherwise require anyone to pay any fee for
entering any park except as provided in division (C)(1) hereof.
      (3)   Granting of permits. The authority for granting permits shall be
with the Parks and Recreation Department.
      (4)   Cleanup by permittee. All permits shall require the permittee to
clean up the park area after the activity has terminated and all applications
for permits must give the name, address, and phone number of the permittee
responsible for the necessary policing thereof. The permittee shall be required
to pay a security deposit for cleaning up the area.
      (5)   Honoring special permits. All persons shall honor any special
permits issued by the Parks and Recreation Department for certain areas, days,
and times to clubs, organizations, teams, or any other groups, including but
not limited to picnic grounds, ball diamonds, skating rinks, and stadiums,
provided such permit is presented on official Parks and Recreation forms.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Officials. The Director and park attendants shall take such actions as
are necessary for the enforcement of this chapter consistent with city
ordinances and state law. Park attendants shall have the powers of law
enforcement officers and may issue appearance tickets in accordance with
M.C.L.A. § 764.9c-764.9g.
   (B)   Ejection. The Director and park attendants shall have the authority to
eject for a period of 24 hours from the park any person who violates this
chapter. Repeated violations of this chapter may result in permanent ejection
from any park.
   (C)   Seizure of property. The Director and any park attendant shall have
the authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing or device in the park
used in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.04 FEES.
   Parks and recreation fees shall be set by resolution of the Commission.
(Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
ACTIVITIES BY PERSONS IN PARKS
§ 97.15 PARK PROPERTY.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Buildings and other property.
      (1)   Disfiguration and removal. Willfully mark, deface, disfigure,
injure, tamper with, or displace or remove, any buildings, bridges, tables,
benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or paving materials, water lines or other
public utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards
whether temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary
markers, or other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or
appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal.
      (2)   Restrooms and washrooms. Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms
and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Removal of natural resources. Dig, or remove any beach sand,
whether submerged or not, or any soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants,
down-timber or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool,
equipment, blasting, or other means or agency.
      (4)   Erection of structures. Construct or erect any building or
structure of whatever kind, whether permanent or temporary in character or run
or string any public service utility into, upon or across such lands, except on
special written permit issued hereunder.
   (B)   Trees, shrubbery, lawns.
      (1)   Injury and removal. Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any
tree or plant or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds, of any tree or
plant. Nor shall any person attach any rope, wire, or other contrivance to any
tree or plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas, or
in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
      (2)   Climbing.  Climb any building or walk, stand or sit upon monuments,
vases, fountains, railing, fences or upon any other property not designated or
customarily used for such purposes.
   (C)   Wild animals, birds and the like.
      (1)   Hunting. Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease,
shoot or throw missiles at any animal, reptile, or bird; nor shall anyone
remove or have in their possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs or
nest, or young of any reptile or bird.
      (2)   Feedings. Give or offer, or attempt to give to any animal or bird
any tobacco, alcohol or other known noxious substances.
   (D)   Glass containers. Bring or use glass containers within the park.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.16 SANITATION.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Pollution of waters. Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to
be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, or other body of
water in or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or
drain flowing into such waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or
solid, which will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
   (B)   Refuse and trash. Have brought in or shall dump, deposit or leave any
bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste,
garbage, or refuse, or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in
any waters in or contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds
thereof.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.17 TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person in a park shall:
      (1)   State motor vehicle laws apply. Fail to comply with all applicable
provisions of the state motor vehicle traffic laws in regard to equipment and
operation of vehicles together with such regulations as are contained in this
chapter and other ordinances.
      (2)   Enforcement of traffic regulations. Fail to obey all traffic
officers and park employees, such persons being hereby authorized and
instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever needed in the parks and on
the highways, street or roads immediately adjacent thereto in accordance with
the provisions of these regulations and such supplementary regulations as may
subsequently be issued by the Director.
      (3)   Obey traffic signs. Fail to observe carefully all traffic signs
indicating speed, direction, caution, stopping, or parking, and all others
posted for proper control and to safeguard life and property.
      (4)   Speed of vehicles. Ride or drive a vehicle at a rate of speed
exceeding 15 miles an hour, except upon such roads as the Director may
designate, by posted signs, for speedier travel.
      (5)   Operation confined to roads. Drive any vehicle on any area except
the paved park roads or parking areas, or such other areas as may on occasion
be specifically designated as temporary parking areas by the Director.
      (6)   Parking.
         (a)   Designated areas. Park a vehicle in other than an established or
designated parking area, and such use shall be in accordance with the posted
directions there at and with the instructions of any attendant who may be
present.
         (b)   Removal of vehicles. Without permission no person shall park or
store any motor vehicle overnight in any park owned by the city. Members of the
Police Department are hereby authorized to remove any motor vehicle so parked
or stored.
         (c)   Immovable vehicles. Leave any vehicle anywhere in the park with
one or more wheels chained, or with motor set in gear and doors locked, or in
any manner fixed or arranged so that such vehicle cannot readily be moved by
hand.
         (d)   Emergency procedure. Fail to immediately notify an attendant of
an emergency in the nature of a breakdown requiring the assistance of a tow-
truck, mechanic or other person.
         (e)   Double-parking. Doublepark any vehicle on any road or parkway
unless directed by a park official.
         (f)   Muffler required. Fail to use a muffler adequate to deaden the
sound of the exhaust system in a motor vehicle.
      (7)   Bicycles.
         (a)   Prohibited areas and adverse operation. Operate a bicycle in
such a way as to cause damage to any park amenity, bench, table, turf, or
pavement. Bicycle operation is prohibited within park buildings, pavilions, and
on playgrounds, sports fields and courts unless authorized as part of a city-
sanctioned event or program. Performed tricks or “grinding” on objects may only
be done within a designated area as may be provided for such purpose.
         (b)   Operation. Bicyclists shall at all times operate same with
reasonable regard to the safety of others, signal all turns, and follow all
applicable road traffic laws and Share the Trail etiquette policy published by
the Parks and Recreation Department. Pedestrians will have the right of way on
all trails, sidewalks, and roadways unless otherwise designated for specific
bicycle use.
         (c)   Rider prohibited. Ride more persons on a bicycle than the
bicycle was designed to accommodate.
         (d)   Designated racks. Leave a bicycle in a place other than a
bicycle rack when such is provided and there is a space available.
         (e)   Immobile. Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set
against trees, or in any place or position where other persons may trip over or
be injured by them.
         (f)   Night operation. Ride a bicycle at night without an attached
headlight and without a tail light or reflector plainly visible.
         (g)   Riverside Cemetery. Operate a bicycle anywhere within the
Riverside Cemetery except on designated roads only.
      (8)   Unsafe operation of vehicle. Operate a vehicle as defined by this
chapter in an unsafe manner.
   (B)   Any unlicensed vehicles or “all-terrain vehicles,” or snowmobiles
shall be prohibited from use in any park, unless authorized by the Parks and
Recreation Department and designated in certain areas.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.18 RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Bathing and swimming.
      (1)   Designated areas. Swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in
or adjacent to any park, except in such places designated for such activity,
and in compliance with such regulations as are set forth in this chapter, as
may be adopted by the Director, or expressly permitted by law. Nor shall any
person frequent any waters or places customarily designated for that purpose of
swimming or bathing, or congregate at such places when such activity is
prohibited by the Director upon a finding that such use of the water would be
dangerous or otherwise inadvisable.
      (2)   Certain hours. Frequent any waters or places designated for the
purpose of swimming or bathing, or congregate at such places, except between
such hours of the day as may be designated by the Director for such purposes
for each individual area.
      (3)   Structure on waterway. Erect, maintain, use or occupy on or in any
shore or bank area adjacent to a waterway, any tent, shelter or structure
unless permitted by or authorized by the Director.
      (4)   Costume. Allow themselves to be so covered with a bathing suit as
to indecently expose his or her person. All bathing suits shall conform to
commonly accepted standards.
      (5)   Bathhouses. Dress or undress on any beach, riverbank or in any
vehicle, restroom or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures
as may be provided for that purpose.
      (6)   Diving or jumping. Dive or jump off any bridge, dam, or other
structure.
      (7)   Mill Pond Park. Swim, bathe or wade within 200 feet of the dam
structure located at Mill Pond Park.
   (B)   Boating.
      (1)   Designated areas. Bring into or operate any boat, canoe, raft, or
other water craft, whether motor-powered or not, upon any waters, except at
places designated for boating by the Director. Such designated boating activity
shall be in accordance with applicable regulations adopted by the Director.
      (2)   Public docks. Use the public docks for dockage or other purpose
without first making arrangements for such accommodation with the Director, who
shall assign space and collect reasonable rental charges in conformity with
established regulations and rates.
      (3)   Operation/use of boats/canoes/kayaks/inflatables. Navigate, direct,
or handle any boat/canoe/kayak/inflatable in such a manner as to unjustifiably
or unnecessarily annoy, frighten or endanger the occupants of any other boat/
canoe/kayak/inflatable or water user such as swimmers, those fishing or
utilizing adjacent park trails or amenities.
      (4)   Prohibition during closing hours. Launch, dock, or operate any
boat/canoe/kayak/inflatable of any kind on any waters between the closing hour
of the park at night and opening hour the following morning, nor shall any
person be on, or remain on or in, any boat during the said closed hours of the
park.
   (C)   Fishing. Fish in any waters, using hook-and-line, net, trap, or other
device, except in waters designated by the Director for that use and under such
regulations and restrictions as have been or may be prescribed by the Director.
   (D)   Hunting and dangerous weapons. Hunt, trap or pursue wildlife at any
time. Except as otherwise expressly permitted by law, no person shall use,
carry, or any weapon potentially dangerous to wildlife and human safety, or any
kind of trapping device. The discharge or brandishing of all weapons is
prohibited. In addition, the use of any item in a manner that potentially
endangers any human or wildlife is prohibited. Shooting into park areas from
beyond park boundaries is forbidden.
   (E)   Picnic areas and use.
      (1)   Regulated. Picnic or lunch in a place other than those designated
for that purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the
activities in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the
maximum use for the comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with
any directions given to achieve this end.
      (2)   Availability. Violate the regulation that use of the individual
grills, together with tables and benches, follows generally the rule of “First
come, first served.”
      (3)   Duty of picnicker. Leave a picnic area before the cooking grill is
completely extinguished, and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers,
cans, bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles
where provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and
trash shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   (F)   Camping. Unless permission is granted by the Director or park
attendants, no person shall set up tents, shacks, or any other temporary
shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a
park after closing hours any movable structure, or special vehicle to be used
or that could be used for such purposes as house trailer, camp- trailer camp-
wagon, or the like.
   (G)   Games. Take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown,
or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins, or
model airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The
playing of rough, or comparatively dangerous games such as football, baseball,
soccer, and softball is prohibited except on the fields and courts or areas
provided for such activities.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.19 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Intoxicating beverages. Be under the influence of intoxicating
beverages or controlled substances. No person shall possess or consume beer,
wine, or other alcoholic beverages within Mill Pond Park or Riverside Cemetery.
   (B)   Fireworks and explosives. Bring in, or have in his or her possession,
or set off, or otherwise cause to explode or discharge or burn, any
firecrackers, rocket or other fireworks or explosives of inflammable material,
or discharge them, or throw them into any such area from land, or highway
adjacent thereto. This prohibition includes any substance, compound, mixture,
or article that in conjunction with any other substance or compound would be
dangerous from any of the foregoing standpoints.
   (C)   Domestic animals. All dogs or other domestic animals shall be
restrained at all times by adequate leashes. Owners of such animals shall be
responsible to clean up the defecation left by their animals. No animals are
permitted on any playing field designated by the Park and Recreation
Department.
   (D)   Reservation of facilities. Occupy, enter into, loiter, panhandle or
remain in any seat, bench, facility, pavilion or other park structure or
section thereof which may be reserved.
   (E)   Fires.
      (1)   Other than in grills that may be provided for such purpose, build
or attempt to build a fire. No person shall drop, throw, or otherwise scatter
lighted matches, charcoal briquettes, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco
paper, or other flammable or inflammable material, within any park area or on
any highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
      (2)   Controlled fires may be allowed by permit of the City Fire
Department as part of a sanctioned city event or program as approved by the
Director.
   (F)   Closed areas. Enter an area posted as “Closed to the Public,” nor
shall any person use, or abet the use of any area in violation of posted
notices.
   (G)   Disorderly conduct. Engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior
tending to a breach of the public peace.
   (H)   Causing or risking public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm. Cause,
recklessly create a risk of, or knowingly contribute to inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm to any person in a park by:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or threatening, or engaging in violent or
tumultuous behavior;
      (2)   Jostling or roughly crowding persons unnecessarily;
      (3)   Making an obscene communication or display; or
      (4)   Creating a hazardous condition by any act which serves no
legitimate purpose.
   (I)   Exhibit permits. Fail to produce and exhibit any permit from the
Director which he or she claims to have upon request of any authorized person
who shall desire to inspect the same for the purpose of enforcing compliance
with any ordinance or rule.
   (J)   Interference with permittees. Disturb or interfere unreasonably with
any person or party occupying any area, or participating in any activity, under
the authority of a permit.
   (K)   Riverside Cemetery. Bring an animal into Riverside Cemetery except (1)
animals which may assist persons with disabilities, (2) animals as part of a
scheduled funeral service with prior approval by the Director or (3) animals
used as part of law enforcement action.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.20 MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING AND SIGNS.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Vending and peddling. Expose or offer for sale any article or thing,
nor shall he or she station or place any stand, cart, or vehicle for the
transportation, sale or display of any such article or thing. Exception is made
as to any regularly licensed concessionaire acting by, and under the authority
and regulation of the Director.
   (B)   Advertising. Announce, advertise, or call the public attention in any
way to any article or service for sale or hire.
   (C)   Signs. Paste, glue, tack, or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement, or inscription whatsoever, nor shall any person erect or cause
to be erected any sign whatsoever on any public lands, highways, or roads
adjacent to a park.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.21 UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.
   No person in a park may operate unmanned aircraft in violation of state or
federal law.
(Ord. 748, passed 5-24-93; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21) Penalty, see §
97.99
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 97.30 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   There is established a Parks and Recreation Commission. Said Commission
shall consist of seven persons all serving without pay. The Commission shall
appoint the members. The term of office for the appointive members shall be for
three years or until their successors are appointed and qualified except that
the members of such commission first appointed shall be appointed for such
terms that the term of one member shall expire one year thereafter; the term of
two members shall expire two years thereafter; vacancies in such Commission
occurring otherwise than by expiration of term shall be filled by the
Commission for unexpired term.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-3-74; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.31 ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS.
   Immediately after their appointment, the members of the Parks and Recreation
Commission shall meet and organize by electing one of their members chairperson
and such officers as may be necessary. The Commission shall have the power to
adopt by-laws and advise the City Manager and Commission on rules and
regulations for the proper conduct of public parks and recreation for the city.
The Parks and Recreation Commission shall adopt non-discriminatory rules for
the use of parks and other facilities and shall administer the facilities on a
non-discriminatory basis.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-3-74; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.32 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall provide, conduct and supervise
public parks, playgrounds, playfields, indoor recreation centers and other
recreation areas and facilities owned or controlled by the city. It is
authorized and directed to prepare land use plans and maps for each public park
or other property under its jurisdiction and to define the specific permitted
activities in each. It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation
or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a
constructive and wholesome manner. It may conduct such activities on properties
under its own control, on public properties with the consent of the
authorities, and on private properties with the consent of the owners. It will
set monthly meetings (open to the public) to plan for the community needs in
park facilities and recreation programs. The Commission will advise in
establishing recreation and park policies. It shall require a quorum at all
Commission meetings for formal official action. It shall keep a complete record
of all Commission meetings and submit the minutes to all Commission members
prior to the next regular meeting. The Commission will make periodic
inspections of parks and recreation areas and facilities.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-3-74; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.33 DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall advise the City Manager on
selection of a Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-3-74; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.34 BUDGET.
   Annually, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall review a proposed budget
and make recommendations to the City Manager for its approval. The Parks and
Recreation Commission may also solicit or receive any gifts or bequests of
money or other personal property or any donation to be applied, principal or
income, for either temporary or permanent use for parks, playgrounds, or other
recreational purposes.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-3-74; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.35 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall make an annual report to the
Commission and such other reports as from time to time may be requested.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-3-74; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Any person violating any provision of this
chapter, with the exception of those specifically set forth in division (B)
below shall be held responsible for a municipal civil infraction and prosecuted
in accordance with the Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The fine for
violation of a municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be $50; the
second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent violation within any
one calendar year, $250.
   (B)   Criminal misdemeanor. Any person violating the following designated
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99:
 
§ 97.15(A)(1) and (3)Park property
   (C)(1) and (2)
§ 97.16(A) and (B)   Sanitation
§ 97.17(B)           All-terrain vehicles
§ 97.18(D)           Recreational activities
§ 97.19(A)
   (G)             Behavior
   (H)
   (K)(2)
 
(Ord. 769, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 1068, passed 5-10-21; Am. Ord. 1073, passed
8-23-21)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 98: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets and Public Ways
   
98.01   Street defined
   
98.02   Excavations
   
98.03   Application for permit; fees
   
98.04   Obstructions, restrictions
   
98.05   Suspension, revocation of permits
   
98.06   Additional construction regulations
   
98.07   Tampering with street signs or barricades
   
98.08   Moving buildings
   
98.09   Posting notices
   
98.10   Signs and signposts
   
98.11   Erection of utility poles, wires
   
98.12   Depositing materials on streets prohibited
   
98.13   Distributing advertising matter
   
98.14   Liability to city for loss or damage
   
98.15   Truck routes
   
98.16   Truck identification
Complete Streets
   
98.20   Purpose
   
98.21   Definitions
   
98.22   Implementation; applicability
   
98.23   Review of transportation projects
Sidewalks
   
98.25   Sidewalk construction or repair, permit required
   
98.26   Dangerous and unsafe conditions prohibited
   
98.27   Notice to repair; work done by city
   
98.28   Permit required for work on crosswalks, driveway aprons, curb cuts
   
98.29   Unsafe driveways and crosswalks
   
98.30   Approval of plans and specifications required
   
98.31   Public liability insurance required
   
98.32   Appeal from denial of permit
   
98.33   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
98.34   Additional construction regulations
   
98.35   Removal of materials; suspension of objects
   
98.36   Driving on sidewalks prohibited
   
98.37   Snow and ice removal from sidewalks
   
98.38   Depositing snow and ice restricted
   
98.99   Penalty
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 98.01 STREET DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the word STREET shall mean and include any
public highway, alley and right-of-way in the city without regard to how such
highway, alley, or right-of-way may be designated or named, and shall be
construed to mean the entire width of such highway, alley or right-of-way
thereof unless the context shall indicate that a lesser portion of such highway
is intended.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
§ 98.02 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make any opening or excavation in or under any street
nor construct or change any driveway approach or do any work under or within
the limits of any street without first obtaining a permit from the Director of
Public Works. No permit shall be granted until the plans and specifications for
the work proposed to be done shall have been approved by the Director of Public
Works. In case of emergency occurring after office hours, at night, or on a
Sunday or legal holiday, when immediate excavation may be necessary for the
protection of public or private property, the Director of Public Works shall be
notified and requested to grant permission to make the necessary excavation
upon the express condition that an application be made for a permit on or
before noon of the next business day.
   (B)   Any public utility operating under the jurisdiction of the Michigan
Public Service Commission, upon written application and upon filing a
certificate of insurance and payment of an annual fee as provided, may be
granted a permit for the installation, replacement or repair of any underground
facilities in a public street for a period of one year. Any public utility
which has not procured an annual permit may be issued permits and shall pay the
regular permit fee.
   (C)   The issuance of a permit under this section shall be contingent upon
fulfillment of the following conditions:
      (1)   During the duration of the operations, the applicant shall agree to
keep the operations barricaded, lighted at night, and otherwise protected as
required by the Director of Public Works to secure the safety of the public and
property. If operations take place in a street, all barricading and signing
shall be in accordance with the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by the fee to reimburse the
city for the costs of inspection and supervision.
      (3)   The applicant shall agree to complete operations within the time
specified in the permit.
      (4)   Before any permit is issued, the Director of Public Works shall
require from all applicants, such public liability and property damage
insurance as shall protect the applicant and the city from claims for damages
for personal injury, including wrongful death, as well as claims for property
damage. The policy shall name the city as an additional insured. A copy of the
certificate of insurance shall be provided to the city. Amounts of such
insurance shall be established by resolution of the Commission. Any person
other than utility companies doing excavation work in any city street shall
provide the city with a surety bond in the amount of $5,000, guaranteeing that
the contractor will complete the work in accordance with all ordinances and the
plans and specifications as approved by the Director of Public Works.
      (5)   Each contractor making an excavation shall be required to give all
utilities four hours' advance notice before beginning work.
      (6)   All excavations shall be guaranteed for a period of two years from
the time of completion against failure, settlement, poor workmanship, or
failure to meet specifications or terms of the permit. Repairs shall be at the
permittee's expense.
   (D)   All excavations made in either a paved or unpaved street, unless
specifically exempted by the Director of Public Works, shall be backfilled and
compacted to city specifications. Any settlement of the completed work, within
a two year period, must be repaired at the permittee's expense.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
§ 98.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   Application for a permit shall be made to the Division of Public Works in
such form and detail as prescribed and accompanied with the payment of such
charges as may be determined by resolution of the Commission.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
§ 98.04 OBSTRUCTIONS, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, in performing any work authorized by permit, obstruct
more than one-half of the traveled portion of any street without permission of
the Director of Public Works. Persons working in the street must provide
adequate signing, barricades, flag persons, and the like, to adequately protect
vehicles and pedestrians using the street and adjacent sidewalk. Before any
person shall totally block any street he/she shall first notify Division of
Public Works and obtain permission from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to impede or obstruct the free
passage or flow of motor vehicle traffic on any street in the city.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 925, passed 3-12-07) Penalty, see §
98.99(A)
§ 98.05 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works shall inspect, or cause to be inspected,
all work done under any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, and he/she shall suspend any permit when the terms thereof, or any
provisions of this subchapter, shall be violated. No person shall perform any
work authorized by any permit while the permit is suspended.
   (B)   All work done pursuant to any permit shall be inspected or cause to be
inspected by the Director of Public Works, and he/she may suspend or revoke any
permit so granted where either the workmanship or materials used do not conform
to the plans and specifications approved or required upon issuance of the
permit, or when the terms of any permit or of this subchapter are violated. No
person shall perform any work authorized by any permit, or cause any such work
to be performed, while that permit is suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.06 ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   The Division of Public Works may make such additional rules and regulations,
subject to the approval of the Commission, pertaining to the making of openings
or excavations in streets as are necessary to secure the health and safety of
the public and for the protection of property, and such rules and regulations
shall constitute the standards upon which the permit hereinabove required shall
be issued. Such rules and regulations are incorporated herein by reference with
the same force and effect as though set forth herein fully and at length. No
work shall be done by any permittee except in accordance with the
specifications and directions contained in the permit.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.07 TAMPERING WITH STREET SIGNS OR BARRICADES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall move, alter, deface, injure or destroy
any part or accessory of any street sign or barricade erected or placed to
protect, warn or guide the public.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, damage or remove any
barrier erected to protect any excavation or obstruction in any street, or any
light placed as a warning of such excavation or obstruction; or any street sign
placed to designate the name of the street; or any street lamp, light post,
pole or any of the parts or attachments thereto, or any telephone pole or any
wire or appliances thereof, or any device erected by the authority of the city,
or any public property whatsoever.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.08 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   No person shall move, or cause to be removed, any building into, along or
across any street or public way without first procuring a permit as required by
the building code of the city.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.09 POSTING NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any handbill, notice,
advertisement, sign, any other advertising device or matter, on any telephone
or electric light pole in any street, or other public place in the city, except
signs by any government authority.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.10 SIGNS AND SIGNPOSTS.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be placed any sign or signpost upon
any street in the city, except traffic-control devices and street markers
installed and maintained by the city or state, and except signs of churches and
other non-profit organizations, approved by the City Manager and installed and
maintained under the supervision and control of the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Removal, destruction or damage of any regulatory sign shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.11 ERECTION OF UTILITY POLES, WIRES.
   (A)   No person shall erect any telephone or electric light pole or wire
within any street of the city without first obtaining an annual permit and site
approval for each project from the Division of Public Works.
   (B)   All such poles and wires shall be erected under the supervision of the
Director of Public Works, but no wires shall be erected or placed within 25
feet of the ground in any street.
   (C)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not be construed
as granting any right to the maintenance of any poles and wires already erected
in the streets, alleys or other public ways of the city, except such rights as
have heretofore been granted by the Commission, and the right to compel the
removal or change of any such poles and wires is reserved by the city.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.12 DEPOSITING MATERIALS ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drop, leave or scatter on any street, in the city any
sand, dirt, mud, gravel, brick, scrap material or any other material. All
persons using trucks, trailers, wagons, or other vehicles to haul sand, dirt,
mud, gravel, brick, scrap material or any other material shall not load the
same above the top of the side or end boards of the vehicle. The body of any
such vehicle used for such shall be constructed as to prevent the dropping,
leaving or scattering of such materials.
   (B)   Construction sites must be managed to prevent the deposition of sand,
gravel and dirt in the streets. If material is deposited in the street, the
contractor responsible must clean up all materials in the street prior to the
end of the work day. If debris is not cleaned up, the city may have debris
cleaned up with all costs incurred billed back to the permittee and/or
revocation of such permit.
   (C)   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, any dirt or litter
of any kind out of any building or private property upon any street or public
way of the city. No person shall throw, or cause to be thrown, any wastewater,
flammable liquids, oil or grease upon any street or public way. The Director of
Public Works may have such dirt or litter removed with all costs billed to the
adjacent property owner in accordance with §
98.99.
   (D)   No person shall cause to be placed any grass clippings, leaves, lawn
rakings, tree or bush trimmings, tree trunks, stumps, ashes, soil, dirt or
household debris in or on any street, in the city. The Director of Public Works
may have such yardwaste removed by city crews with all costs billed to the
adjacent property owner, in accordance with §
98.99.
   (E)   No person shall place or cause to be placed in or upon any street,
alley or public way, any broken ware, glass, scrap metal or scrap material,
kegs, barrels, cartons, boxes, crates, excrement, sawdust, sticks, shavings,
cans, trash, rubbish, refuse, or any offensive substance whatsoever. All
garbage shall be placed and kept in covered receptacles. All glass, trash,
rubbish, refuse and small pieces of metal shall be so placed in receptacles
that pieces or particles cannot drop out. The Director of Public Works may have
such rubbish, trash, and the like, removed by city crews with all costs billed
to the adjacent property owner, in accordance with §
98.99.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.13 DISTRIBUTING ADVERTISING MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, throw or scatter, or
cause to be distributed, thrown or scattered, any papers, handbills, posters,
signs, cards or other advertising matter in any street in the city; nor shall
any person place or cause to be placed any such papers, handbills, posters,
signs, cards or other advertising matter in or on any vehicle parked upon any
street in the city.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 925, passed 3-12-07; Am. Ord. 1009, passed
4-25-16) Penalty, see §
98.99(B)
§ 98.14 LIABILITY TO CITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Whenever any person performs any work, as provided in this subchapter,
either under contract with the city or by virtue of any permit issued by the
city, such person shall be liable to the city for all loss or damage which the
city may sustain and for all sums which it may have to pay to any person by
reason of any loss or injury sustained through any carelessness or negligence
in doing the work, or by reason of any neglect or failure to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter or code.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95)
§ 98.15 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate the orderly operation of
trucks on the streets of the city. The primary objectives are to facilitate the
transfer of goods and services by trucks to businesses and to preserve the
quality of life in the neighborhoods. Prime considerations involved in the
purpose of the section are: 1) the safety of our citizens; 2) avoidance of
unreasonable or unnecessary disturbance or reduction in property values due to
truck noise, vibration, and/or air pollution; 3) protection against the
deterioration of those streets not designated for truck traffic, and 4)
adequate truck service to businesses and residences in an expeditious manner,
having due regard for economical vehicle operation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   TRUCK. "Truck", "truck tractor", "trailer", "semi-trailer", as defined in
Act 300, Public Acts of Michigan, 1949, or any combination thereof, as well as
chartered, tour-type buses.
   (C)   Where density of traffic, protection of life and property,
construction and condition of the roadway, or any hazardous condition makes it
advisable, the direction of traffic flow and routing of trucks and heavy
vehicles may be made by the proper authority by duly posted traffic control
devices; and it shall be unlawful to drive or cause to be driven any vehicle in
violation of such direction and routing.
   (D)   The streets of the city are hereby designated for this section into
four classes:
      (1)   Primary Truck Routes. Those streets specifically designated by this
section or subsequent traffic control orders as truck routes.
      (2)   Secondary Truck Routes. Those streets leading to and/or from
commercial, institutional or public facilities in need of regular deliveries by
trucks and located off of primary truck routes and designated by this section
or subsequent traffic control orders.
      (3)   Major Streets. Those streets, other than truck routes, that are
certified by the Michigan Department of Transportation as major streets in the
city of Mt. Pleasant.
      (4)   Local Streets. All streets not designated herein as truck routes or
major streets.
   (E)   The operation of any truck exceeding 30 feet in length or 26,000
pounds gross weight (including operator and cargo) and/or any vehicle which
requires hazardous material placards is prohibited upon every street in the
city except primary truck routes designated by this section or subsequent
traffic control orders. The operation of any truck exceeding 30 feet in length
or 26,000 pounds of gross weight shall be permitted on secondary routes only in
accordance with D(2).
   (F)   Provided, however, that no provision of this section shall prohibit:
      (1)   The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street in the city.
      (2)   The operation of trucks leased, owned or operated by the Division
of Public Works or any other governmental agency, any contractor or material
delivery person while engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of
streets, street improvements, or street utilities within the city, or licensed
refuse carrier on their assigned route.
      (3)   The operation of a truck upon any officially established detour in
any case where such trucks could lawfully be operated upon the street for which
such detour is established.
      (4)   The operation of a truck on such prohibited streets as may be
reasonably necessary when traveling from the nearest street intersection on a
street where it is permitted to operate to a destination on a prohibited
street.
      (5)   The operation of a truck on prohibited streets while engaged in
pickups or deliveries, provided that the truck shall, upon completion of the
last pickup or delivery, return by the shortest route to the nearest street
upon which it is permitted to operate.
      (6)   Any Isabella County Transportation Commission or public school bus
from traveling on any street in the city.
      (7)   Any truck traffic generated within the city of Mt. Pleasant or
Union Township from traveling on Bradley Street.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of any person who shall be driving or in charge
or control of any truck which may at that time be upon any street in the city
upon which truck travel is limited or restricted, upon the demand of any police
officer, to proceed to any public or private scale available for the purpose of
weighing and determining whether the weight thereof is in excess of the weight
limit permitted upon such street.
(Ord. 805, passed 10-13-97)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.16    TRUCK IDENTIFICATION.
   No person shall engage in commerce in the operation on the public streets of
the city a motor truck, tractor, trailer or semi-trailer unless it shall have
painted or otherwise lettered upon it the name of the business and business
address as required by the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code. This section shall not
be applicable to trucks eligible for, and equipped with, farm commercial
license plates.
(Ord. 805, passed 10-13-97)
Penalty, see § 98.99
COMPLETE STREETS
§ 98.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Sections
98.20 through
98.23 shall serve as the city’s complete streets policy for purposes of Public
Act 51 of 1951, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 247.651 et seq. (“PA 51”).
   (B)   The purpose of these sections is to provide for the planning, design,
construction, and maintenance of a transportation system within the city that
satisfies the access and mobility needs of all users, regardless of age,
ability, mode of transportation, or trip purpose. The road network should
function as an integral part of the overall transportation system and provide
for safe, accessible, comfortable, and efficient transportation options for
people and goods in order to support the city’s quality of life, economic
vitality, and environmental sustainability.
(Ord. 996, passed 6-22-15)
§ 98.21 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this complete streets
policy shall have the following meanings:
   COMPLETE STREETS. Roadways planned, designed, and constructed to provide
access to all legal users in a manner that promotes safe, efficient, and
convenient movement of people and goods whether by car, truck, transit,
assistive device, foot, bicycle, or other means.
   TRANSPORTATION PROJECT. The construction, reconstruction, retrofit,
alteration, or repair of any element of the transportation system, and includes
the planning, design, approval, and implementation processes. TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT does not include minor routine maintenance such as cleaning, sweeping,
mowing, spot repair, interim measures on detour routes, or emergency repair
work and does not include projects that are not included in the city’s capital
improvement plan.
(Ord. 996, passed 6-22-15)
§ 98.22 IMPLEMENTATION AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The city shall develop and implement standards for complete streets
with the goal of creating a complete streets network throughout the city. As it
endeavors to implement those standards, the city shall routinely approach every
transportation project and program as an opportunity to further implement
complete streets, especially in the planning, design and construction of public
streets. All proposed transportation projects shall be subject to the review
procedures described in §
98.23.
   (B)   The city shall endeavor to implement standards for complete streets
into projects involving only preservation or minor routine maintenance of a
roadway, bridge, public parking facility, or other transportation right-of-way,
but such projects are not subject to the review procedures in §
98.23.
   (C)   The city shall meet or exceed the requirements for the funding of non-
motorized transportation enhancements provided in PA 51.
   (D)   The city shall work in partnership with the Charter Township of Union,
Isabella County, the Michigan Department of Transportation, and Central
Michigan University to facilitate the implementation of complete streets, to
the extent feasible, on projects under the jurisdiction of those entities.
(Ord. 996, passed 6-22-15)
§ 98.23 REVIEW OF TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.
   (A)   During the annual capital improvement plan process, the Division of
Public Works shall submit to the Planning Commission a list of proposed
transportation projects for the next fiscal year that showcase, prioritize, and
incorporate complete street infrastructure. The list shall include street
projects that improve existing public streets to be complete streets.
   (B)   The Division of Public Works shall also submit to the Planning
Commission a list of transportation projects to be excluded from incorporating
complete streets infrastructure, and shall provide information explaining the
exclusion. Transportation projects may be excluded from incorporating complete
streets infrastructure for the following reasons:
      (1)   Use by non-motorized users is prohibited by law;
      (2)   The cost would be excessively disproportionate to the need or
probable future use over the long term, generally adding 25% or more to the
budgeted project cost; or
      (3)   Planning, design, and construction as complete streets would be
unreasonable or inappropriate in light of the scope of the project.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review the lists of transportation
projects submitted by the Division of Public Works, and may provide comments
and recommendations regarding those lists to the City Commission prior to its
consideration of the capital improvement plan.
   (D)   Upon the completion of the annual street financial report, as required
by PA 51, the Division of Public Works shall provide the City Commission and
Planning Commission with a summary of transportation projects performed during
the past year, including funding sources for each, and a calculation of the
share of the city’s PA 51 funding spent on non-motorized transportation
facilities.
(Ord. 996, passed 6-22-15)
SIDEWALKS
§ 98.25 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR, PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct or repair any sidewalk except in accordance with
the lines, grade, slope and specifications established by the Director of
Public Works and without first procuring a permit from the Division of Public
Works. Permits shall be prominently displayed on the construction site.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.26 DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any sidewalk which adjoins property owned by him/her
to fall into a state of disrepair or be unsafe.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.27 NOTICE TO REPAIR; WORK DONE BY CITY.
   Whenever the Director of Public Works shall determine that a sidewalk is
unsafe for use, or required to be constructed for the public safety, the
Director of Public Works shall give written notice to the owner or occupant of
the abutting premises, to repair within 30 days. Alternatively, the Director of
Public Works may repair or construct the sidewalk if, in the Director's
opinion, the sidewalk condition is unsafe and dangerous and requires immediate
repair to assure public safety and to prevent the possibility of city liability
for personal injury or property damage. Upon failure of the owner to repair the
sidewalk within 30 days, the Director of Public Works shall cause repairs to be
made and shall provide a report to the Commission of the cost and expense of
performing such work, which costs and expense shall be charged to the owner or
occupant.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
§ 98.28 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WORK ON CROSSWALKS, DRIVEWAY APRONS, CURB CUTS.
   No person shall construct, alter or change any crosswalk, driveway apron or
any opening in or through any curb in any street or public way without first
procuring a permit from the Division of Public Works. If work is undertaken
without a permit, a $100 penalty, plus double the permit fee, will be charged.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.29 UNSAFE DRIVEWAYS AND CROSSWALKS.
   If in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, any driveway, crosswalk
or other paved area between the sidewalk and the curb is not reasonably safe or
fit for travel and should be immediately repaired, the Director of Public Works
shall give the owner or occupant of the premises adjacent to the driveway,
crosswalk or other paved area, notice to repair within 30 days. If the repairs
are not made, the Director of Public Works shall cause repairs to be made and
shall provide a report to the Commission of the cost and expense of performing
such work, which costs shall be charged to the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.30 APPROVAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No work for which a permit is required under this subchapter shall be done
by any person except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by
the Director of Public Works, and all work shall be done under the supervision
of the Division of Public Works.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.31 PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Before any permit is issued to the applicant, the Director of Public Works
shall require such public liability and property damage insurance as shall
protect the applicant and the city from claims for damages for personal injury,
including wrongful death, as well as claims for property damage. Said policy
shall name the city as an additional insured, by means of certificate of
insurance to the city. Amounts of such insurance shall be established by
resolution of the Commission. Any person other than utility companies doing
excavation work in any city street or alley shall provide the city with a
surety bond in the amount of $1,000 for each job, or $5,000 per year
guaranteeing that the contractor will complete the work in accordance with all
ordinances and the plans and specifications as approved by the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.32 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   If the Division of Public Works shall refuse to issue any permit, the
applicant may appeal to the Commission which shall authorize a hearing before
the Commission. The decision of the Commission may impose such conditions as it
may deem desirable to protect the safety of persons and property.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
§ 98.33 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   All work done pursuant to any permit shall be inspected or cause to be
inspected by the Director of Public Works. Any permit may be suspended or
revoked if either the workmanship or material used does not conform to the
plans and specifications approved or required by the permit, or when the terms
of any permit or of this subchapter are violated. No person shall perform any
work authorized by any permit or cause any such work to be performed if the
permit is suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.34 ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   The Division of Public Works may make such additional rules and regulations,
subject to the approval of the Commission, pertaining to the making of openings
or excavations in streets as are necessary to secure the health and safety of
the public and for the protection of property. Such rules and regulations shall
constitute the standards upon which any permit required by this subchapter
shall be issued. Such rules and regulations are incorporated by reference. No
work shall be done by any permittee except in accordance with the
specifications and directions contained in the permit.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.35 REMOVAL OF MATERIALS; SUSPENSION OF OBJECTS.
   (A)   No person owning, building or repairing any house or other building
shall permit any lumber, brick, plaster, mortar, earth, clay, sand, stone or
other material to remain on the sidewalk after sunset of the day upon which it
was placed there, without written permission from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   No person shall suspend anything above any sidewalk or within any
street area, unless expressly authorized by city ordinances, except an awning
or marquee no part of which is less than seven feet above the sidewalk grade.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.36 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall go upon or drive, or cause to be driven, any vehicle or
animal on any pavement, sidewalk, curbing or gutter, except at a driveway
constructed for such purpose.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.37 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, OWNER means an owner, owners,
occupant, or occupants of real property.
   (B)   The owner of every property within the city must clear any
accumulation of ice or snow from the public sidewalks adjoining such property
within 24 hours of the accumulation or placement of snow or ice on said
sidewalks.
   (C)    If a sidewalk is not cleared within 24 hours of the accumulation or
placement of snow or ice, the city may issue the owner a civil infraction
ticket that is a personal debt owed to the city for each day that the owner
fails to clear the sidewalk, or the city may clear the sidewalk and impose a
lien on the property for the cost of clearing the sidewalk. The City Commission
must set the civil infraction fees and the amount of any lien under this
division by resolution.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 781, passed 12-18-95; Am. Ord. 793, passed
11-11-96; Am. Ord. 1090, passed 10-9-23)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.38 DEPOSITING SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person, partnership, or corporation shall deposit or cause to be
deposited any snow and ice on or against a fire hydrant or on any sidewalk,
roadway, public right of way; except that which fronts the owner's, renter's or
corporation property; or loading and unloading areas of a public transportation
system, except that snow and ice may be deposited on curbs incident to the
cleaning of sidewalks within the Central Business District. No snow or ice
shall be piled more than three feet high as measured above the road surface
within the right-of-way or on private property if it causes a sight restriction
for vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Any person who violates any provision of
this chapter, with the exception of §
98.10(B), shall be held responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
prosecuted in accordance with the Municipal Civil Infractions ordinance. The
fine for violation of a municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be
$50; the second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent violation
within any one calendar year, $250; with the exceptions of §§
98.15 and
98.16, under which the fine shall be $200. In addition, the city shall be
reimbursed for any costs incurred by the city in causing any work to be
performed which the respondent has failed to perform. Each day that a violation
is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95; Ord. 773, passed 8-28-95)
   (B)   Criminal misdemeanor. Any person violating §§
98.10(B) or
98.13(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500, or by incarceration, for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 772, passed 8-28-95; Am. Ord. 925, passed 3-12-07)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 99: TREES, SHRUBS AND PLANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Preservation and removal of trees in public places
   
99.03   Prohibited species
   
99.04   Permit to plant required; application for permit
   
99.05   Replacement of vegetation
   
99.06   Electrical wires
   
99.07   Stone and cement
   
99.08   Wires and ropes
   
99.09   Destruction or damage to trees and shrubs
   
99.10   Tree protection
   
99.11   Tree maintenance; obstructions prohibited
   
99.12   Interference with Division of Public Works or employees
Rules and Regulations for Trees
   
99.25   Duties of Division of Public Works and Director
   
99.26   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
99.27   Rule 1.1 Permit required
   
99.28   Rule 1.2 Planting plans
   
99.29   Rule 1.3 Planting
   
99.30   Rule 1.4 Tree trimming
   
99.31   Rule 1.5 Tree removal
   
99.32   Rule 1.6 Safety clearance
 
   
99.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation having fee simple title, joint or
common tenancy, equitable ownership or the interest of a mortgagee in
possession. Any person, firm or corporation whose name appears on the last
preceding assessment roll for the property shall be deemed the prima facie
owner of the property within this chapter.
   PLANT. A young tree, vine, shrub, or herb planted or suitable for planting.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY. A street, road or passage under the control of and kept by
the public, established by regular proceedings for the purpose or generally
used by the public or dedicated by the owner of the soil and accepted by the
proper authorities and for the maintenance of which they are responsible.
Highway includes roads, streets, alleys, lanes, courts, places, trails and
bridges laid out by the public or dedicated or abandoned to the public. Highway
shall include all lands between property lines of property abutting highways.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the general public has the right to resort;
not necessarily a place devoted solely to the uses of the public, but a place
which is in point of fact public rather than private.
   SHRUB. A low, small plant, the branches of which grow directly from the
earth without any supporting trunk, or stem. Any tree with a potential growth
of less than 15 feet shall be considered a shrub.
   TREES. A woody plant, the branches of which spring from, and are supported
upon, a trunk or body which at its greatest potential growth, exceeds 15 feet
in height.
   VEGETATION. Plant life or total plant cover of an area.
   VINE. A plant whose stem requires support and which climbs by tendrils or
twining or creeps along the ground.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
§ 99.02 PRESERVATION AND REMOVAL OF TREES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the right to plant, trim, spray,
preserve or remove all vegetation on highways and public places as may be
necessary to promote the health, safety or welfare of the community and to
aesthetically enhance the symmetry and beauty of public places. The Director of
Public Works may remove or cause to be removed any vegetation in an unsafe
condition or infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
§ 99.03 PROHIBITED SPECIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant on any highway or public
property within the city limits a Poplar grandidentata (Big Tooth Aspen), P.
tremuloides (Quaking Aspen), P. balssmifera (Balsam Poplar), P. deltoides
(Eastern Cottonwood); Ailanthus altissima (Tree of Heaven); Catalpa speciosa
and C. bignonoides (Catalpas); Acer negundo (Box Elder), A. saccharinum (Silver
Maple); Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese Elm), Ulmus pumila (Siberia Elm), U. rubra
(Slippery Elm), U. thomasii (Rock Elm), U. americana (American Elm); Juglans
nigra (Black Walnut); Saliz nigra (Black Willow), S. babylonica (Weeping
Willow); Ginkgo (Ginkgo Biloba female); Mulberry (Morus Spp.); Black Locust
(Robinia Spp.); without procuring a special permit from the Director of Public
Works.
   (B)   Any of the above-named species may be removed or caused to be removed
by the Director of Public Works when it is deemed in the interest of public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.04 PERMIT TO PLANT REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall plant or set out any tree or shrub or cause or
authorize anyone to do so on any public highway or public place without
obtaining a written permit from the Director of Public Works. Such permit, when
issued, shall set forth the conditions under which the planting may be made in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter or rules and regulations adopted
by the city.
   (B)   The form of application and form of permit shall be in accordance with
the rules and regulations adopted by the city.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.05 REPLACEMENT OF VEGETATION.
   Whenever any vegetation is removed by any person (including the city) for
the construction of any public improvement, or is severely damaged by pruning
to clear utility lines, the Director of Public Works, whenever practicable,
shall require the planting of a similar tree, bush or shrub to take the place
of those removed.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.06 ELECTRICAL WIRES.
   No person shall cause a wire or other conductor charged with electricity to
come in contact with any tree, plant or shrub within any public highway or
public place in such a manner as to injure or abrade such tree, plant or shrub.
The Director of Public Works may order any person to prune or remove any tree,
plant or shrub growing within a public highway or public place or, in the
alternative, to remove any wire or wires running thereon in violation of this
section with 24 hours after written notice to the owner or person in control of
such wire or wires. The owner or agent so notified shall be responsible for the
protection of the highway, public place, and persons thereon during the
progress of tree operations deemed essential under this section.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.07 STONE AND CEMENT.
   No person shall place or maintain on any public highway or public place any
stone, cement or other impervious material or substance in such a manner as to
obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of any tree, plant or
shrub thereon without the written permission of the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.08 WIRES AND ROPES.
   No person shall attach or cause to be attached to any tree, plant, or shrub
within a public highway or public place any rope, wire, chain, sign or other
device without the written permission of the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.09 DESTRUCTION OR DAMAGE TO TREES AND SHRUBS.
   No person shall mutilate, disfigure or destroy any tree or shrub or
discharge or cause to be discharged any gas, oil, salt, herbicides or other
substances dangerous to vegetation upon any tree, shrub or plant or the soil
surrounding the same within any public highway or public place.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.10 TREE PROTECTION.
   During any construction, repair, alteration or removal of any building or
structure, it shall be unlawful for any person to leave any tree, bush or shrub
within any public highway or public place without sufficient guard or
protection so as to prevent injury thereto by reason of such construction,
repair, alteration or removal. No tree, bush or shrub shall be moved or removed
from any public highway or public place without the written consent of the
Director of Public Works. All such removal or moving shall be done at the
expense of the applicant. Any tree, bush or shrub destroyed by reason of
removing or moving shall be replaced by the applicant at his/her expense.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.11 TREE MAINTENANCE; OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any tree, bush or shrub projecting upon or over any public highway or
public place shall be kept trimmed by the owner of the property on which said
tree, bush or shrub is located to a minimum of nine feet from the natural
ground level. No tree, bush or shrub on any private property shall obstruct the
light of any public street lighting or obstruct the view of any traffic sign or
signs erected by the city or any public governmental unit.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works determines that any tree, bush or
shrub is a danger to the public health, safety or welfare, the Director shall
notify the owner of the private property upon which said tree, bush or shrub is
growing, by personal service or certified mail at the owner's last address, as
shown in the record of the City Assessor, notifying said owner to trim, treat,
prune or remove such tree, bush or shrub.
   (C)   If an owner of any private property so notified concerning the
trimming or removal of any tree, bush or shrub has not removed, trimmed or
treated the same within 15 days after mailing of the aforesaid notice, or does
not have an appeal pending, the Director of Public Works is authorized or
remove, treat to trim the same and to charge the owner for the cost thereof.
   (D)   Any owner receiving a notice under division (B) above, shall have the
right to appeal the determination of the Director of Public Works by submitting
a written request for hearing to the Commission within ten days of receipt of
the notice. The request for hearing shall be directed to the Commission, at
City of Mount Pleasant, City Hall, Mount Pleasant, MI 48858. The request for
hearing shall stay the actions of the Director of Public Works until real
determination by the Commission. The Commission shall notify the owner, in
writing, by personal service or certified mail, at least seven days prior to
the regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission of when the public hearing
shall be held, The owner may appear before the Commission personally, by agents
or may submit his/her objection to the actions of the Director of Public Works
in writing. The Commission may confirm, amend or reverse the instructions of
the Director of Public Works and shall determine the date for compliance by the
owner, with 15 days after the date of the public hearing. The Commission shall
transmit in writing the finding of fact and report of its action to the
Director of Public Works and the owner.
   (E)   When the Division of Public Works has removed, trimmed or treated any
offending tree, bush or shrub on private property, or has paid for such
trimming, treating or removal, the owner shall be charged the actual cost of
said removal plus accrued interest at the rate of 1% per month from the date of
completion of said work. If the same is not paid by the owner of the private
property on which the tree, bush or shrub is located, the same shall be charged
to the owner by the city, and said charge shall be due and payable at the time
of payment of such tax bill.
   (F)   Where the full amount due the city is not paid by such owner within 60
days after the trimming, pruning, treatment or removal of such prohibited
growth, as set forth in divisions (C) and (E), above, then, the Director of
Public Works shall cause to be recorded in the Treasurer's Office of the city a
sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the work and the
date, place or property on which said work was done. The recording of such
statement shall constitute a lien on the property and shall remain in full
force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest until final
payment has been made and shall be collected in the manner provided by law for
the collection of taxes; further, the total amount shall be subject to a
delinquent penalty of 1% per month in the event same is not paid in full on or
before the date the tax bill upon which said charge appears becomes delinquent;
said sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provision hereof, shall
be notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property described in the statement
and that the same is due.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.12 INTERFERENCE WITH DIVISION OF PUBLIC WORKS OR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere or
cause or authorize or procure any interference or delay with the Director of
Public Works or any of his/her employees or agents while they are engaged in or
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, trimming, or
removing of any vegetation; devices attached to a tree, plant or shrub in
accordance with the requirements set forth in §
99.08 hereof; removing of stone, cement or other material or substances as may
be necessary for the protection of any vegetation in accordance with the
requirement of §§
99.07 and
99.09 hereof.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR TREES
§ 99.25 DUTIES OF DIVISION OF PUBLIC WORKS AND DIRECTOR.
   The Division of Public Works shall have control of the planting, cutting,
trimming and removal of all vegetation within a public highway and the Director
of Public Works shall promulgate and adopt rules and regulations to effectuate
the provisions of this chapter. No rules or regulations promulgated hereunder
shall be adopted until there has been a public hearing before the Commission
and approval of the same by resolution of the Commission.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
§ 99.26 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations set forth in this subchapter are adopted in
accordance with §
99.25 of the code and were approved by the Commission on March 6, 1978.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
§ 99.27 RULE 1.1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall plant, trim or remove a tree,
shrub or vine on any property under the control of the city without first
obtaining a permit from the Division of Public Works.
   (B)   An application for a permit shall be made at least 48 hours in advance
of the date the work is to be performed and shall describe the work to be done
and the variety, size and location of each item to be planted or trimmed.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued without charge and shall expire 60 days after
the date of issue.
   (D)   Applications submitted by owners of the abutting property for the
planting of trees, shrubs and vines need not be accompanied by a certificate of
insurance but all other applicants shall have attached a current certificate of
insurance in the amount of not less than those given on the attached
Certificate of Insurance.
   (E)   Any work done under a written permit must be performed in strict
accordance with the terms thereof and provisions of Chapter 100 of the Code of
Ordinances, Trees, Plants and Shrubs, and the Rules and Regulations regarding
trees, plants and shrubs, and under the supervision and direction of the
Director of Public Works.
   (F)   If the work described in the application is not completed within 48
hours of the date of issue the applicant shall notify the Director of Public
Works upon completion of the work or any major portion of it.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
§ 99.28 RULE 1.2 PLANTING PLANS.
   (A)   Whenever five or more trees are to be planted, two copies of a diagram
drawn to scale or written statement describing the work shall accompany the
application.
   (B)   The diagram or statement shall indicate:
      (1)   The species of each tree to be planted and the species of existing
trees within 40 feet of the proposed new tree(s).
      (2)   The distance between existing or proposed trees including any on
private property within 40 feet of a proposed new tree.
      (3)   The location of existing or proposed sidewalks, curbs and other
hard surfaced areas within 40 feet of a proposed tree.
   (C)   Applicants for permits to remove a tree shall agree to observe the
city's requirements for barricading streets and shall observe such additional
instructions as may be included in the permit to protect the public from
injury.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.29 RULE 1.3 PLANTING.
   (A)   Newly planted trees must be not less than 1¼" in diameter of trunk
measured six inches above ground level and free from disease and insect
infestations.
   (B)   The spacing between trees will be determined by the species being
planted a minimum of 25 feet apart. This rule shall not prohibit the planting
of at least one tree per lot. Existing trees at the time of passage of this
chapter shall be replaced when removed in the future.
   (C)   No tree shall be planted nearer than three feet from an existing or
future curb line or outer line of the sidewalk unless a special permit is
granted by the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   No tree may be planted where the clear space between the curb and
sidewalk is less than six feet.
   (E)   All trees from 1¼" to 3" in diameter of trunk measured six inches
above the ground, must be protected and supported by tree guards. If only one
stake is used, it must be toward the prevailing winds.
   (F)   Trees shall be planted at least ten feet from the intersection at a
driveway or alley and a street right-of-way and shrubs at least five feet
therefrom.
   (G)   Species prohibited by ordinance shall not be planted for the reasons
listed below:
      (1)   Prone to clogging sewers with roots.
      (2)   Short-lived.
      (3)   Weak branches and limbs.
      (4)   Susceptible to Dutch Elm Disease.
      Poplar - (1), (2), (3)
      Big Tooth Aspen - (1), (2), (3)
      Quaking Aspen - (1), (2), (3)
      Balsam Poplar - (1), (2), (3)
      Box Elder - (1), (2), (3)
      Tree of Heaven - (3)
      Catalpa - (1)
      Silver Maple - (1), (3)
      Chinese Elm - (1)
      Siberian Elm - (3)
      Slippery Elm - (1), (4)
      Rock Elm - (1), (4)
      American Elm - (1), (4)
      Black Walnut - (1)
      Eastern Cottonwood - (1), (3)
      Black Willow - (1)
      Weeping Willow - (1)
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.30 RULE 1.4 TREE TRIMMING.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The trees shall be pruned by removal of all dead, diseased, broken
and crossing branches.
      (2)   Live branches shall be removed to maintain the natural shape and
appearance of the trees. Mutilation and loss of characteristic shape of the
trees shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Selective removal of complete limb or limbs shall be performed
rather than excessive clipping with pruners i.e., a “hedge trimming” effect
shall be avoided.
      (4)   Saw or pruner cuts shall be flush with the parent limbs or trunk of
the tree.
      (5)   Limbs shall be precut, using a three-cut technique to prevent
splitting or stripping of bark. Ropes shall be used for lowering cut branches
where necessary to prevent damage to trees, conductors, fences, cars and other
property.
      (6)   No “hangers” shall be left in the trees after pruning is completed.
      (7)   All old stubs shall be removed and treated. All old scars shall be
inspected and if not healing properly, shall be retraced and treated.
      (8)   The lower branches of the tree shall be raised (where the top is
sufficient to maintain balanced life) to a height of 14 feet above the traveled
portion of the street at the curb line and seven feet above the sidewalk and
outlawn areas.
      (9)   Tools used to prune suspected or diseased trees shall be
disinfected before being used on another tree.
   (B)   Pruning procedures and scope of work. Any tree large enough to support
a trimmer shall be climbed and trimmed. It will not be deemed sufficient for
the trimmer to remain on the ground and trim trees with a pruning pole unless
agreed upon by the Director of Public Works.
      (1)   Light pruning. The removal of dead wood, suckers, crossed branches
and stubs up to one-inch in diameter.
      (2)   Medium pruning. The work will include all of item 1 (light pruning)
plus branches up to four inches in diameter. Wounds are to be treated with a
tree paint containing napthamoleacitec acid.
      (3)   Heavy pruning. Work will include items 1 (light pruning) and 2
(medium pruning) above. Also include the removal of limbs over four inches in
diameter. Items 1, 2, and 3 above will include topping (pollarding), trace and
paint, treatment for girdling roots, installation of supporting cables and/or
bolting and sectional cavity repair work when specifically requested by the
Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Shaping. If in obtaining the desired shape, trees are rendered
unsightly due to lack of symmetry, further pruning to restore their appearance
shall be carried out. The extent of such shaping shall be governed by the
location and type of tree, the nature of its surroundings, and the like. Full
shaping will consist of:
         (a)   The removal or shortening by natural methods of branches in the
crown of the tree. Sufficient growth must be left on a cut back branch to keep
it alive and when possible the branch being shortened shall be cut back far
enough to preserve the natural appearance of the tree.
         (b)   Side pruning shall not be so severe as to restrict the tree's
ability to produce the food necessary for healthy growth. Top growth shall not
be reduced a greater amount than that permissible for the species as listed
below:
      50%-Silver Maple, Willow, Poplar and other fast-growing varieties
      40%-Basswood, Elm, Walnut, Ash
      14-20%-Beech, Norway and Sugar Maples and other slow-growing species
   (C)   Pruning and utility wires.
      (1)   Any line clearing operation shall provide adequate clearance for
all power and communications circuits, including primary service leads, as well
as strain and anchor guys attached to the poles or structures of the line.
      (2)   Limbs under conductors. Limbs growing up into the conductors from
the side of a tree shall be removed at the main trunk. If this appears
impractical or inadvisable, the limbs shall be shortened to avoid whipping up
into the line.
      (3)   Limbs parallel with conductors. Limbs growing out from the side of
a tree, parallel with conductors, and could sway into the lines, shall be
removed if practical, or shortened.
      (4)   Overhanging limbs. Limbs directly over the conductors shall be
removed if practical; otherwise, they shall be shortened sufficiently to
prevent their dropping in to the wires under the additional weight of snow or
ice.
      (5)   Dead limbs. All dead limbs shall be removed.
   (D)   Hazardous trees.
      (1)   Reporting. Any person engaged in trimming or pruning who becomes
aware of a tree of doubtful strength which could be dangerous to persons and
property shall report it to the Director of Public Works. Such trees shall
include those that are over mature, diseased, or showing signs of decay.
      (2)   Diagnosis. Trees of doubtful strength shall be bored at the base
with a ½-inch auger to determine the amount of dead wood. At least three
borings shall be made. Borings shall also be made in the wood surrounding
doubtful areas in the trunk or main branches as may be indicated by exposed
wood, frost cracks, bulges or sunken areas. These procedures shall be performed
by the city.
      (3)   Test holes to be plugged. Test holes in all trees left standing
following diagnosis shall be plugged with bark around the holes with a knife.
The end of the dowel shall be flush with the wood and the wound treated with a
tree wound dressing.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.31 RULE 1.5 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city will remove trees at its expense and when funds are available
from city-owned property in accordance with the following priority list.
   (B)   Any reason for tree removal which is not included in the priority
system will be considered separately and rated in importance with the existing
priority system. Trees will be removed according to the priority system to
include as many as can be removed under the existing budget for tree removal.
      (1)   Priority No. 1. Removal of dangerous trees. Includes any tree which
is in immediate danger of loss of limbs or total collapse of the tree, as
determined by the arborist.
      (2)   Priority No. 2. Removal of 100% dead trees. Removal of any trees in
which the crown area is 100% dead or missing, but is not considered dangerous.
This priority also includes trees which are affected by an epizootic disease.
      (3)   Priority No. 3. Removal of 75% dead trees. Includes trees which
have 75% of the crown dead or missing.
      (4)   Priority No. 4. Removal of 50% dead trees. Includes trees which
have 50% of the crown area dead or missing, except where trimming will produce
a suitable shaped tree.
      (5)   Priority No. 5.  Removal of female Box Elder and Elm. Includes all
female Box Elder, especially if removal is requested by the property owner.
Includes all American Elm trees that have 25% of the crown dead and shows
definite signs of Dutch Elm Disease or Elm Phloem Necrosis.
      (6)   Priority No. 6. Removal for driveway improvements. Includes trees
which completely block a proposed driveway or interfere with the installation
or improvement of a driveway, upon request of owner of adjacent property.
      (7)   Priority No. 7. Removal for driveway impairment. Includes trees
which impair movement of vehicles in and out of a driveway.
      (8)   Priority No. 8. Removal for sidewalk raising. Includes trees which
have roots that are raising the adjacent sidewalk and sidewalk repair is
unlikely to correct the problem.
      (9)   Priority No. 9. Removal for sewer trouble. Includes trees which
have roots that plug sewers.
      (10)   Priority No. 10. Removal for heavy seeding. Includes trees which
have undesirable heavy seeding upon request of the owner of adjacent property.
      (11)   Priority No. 11. Removal for sidewalk raising. Includes trees
which:
         (a)   Have a trunk that blocks traffic visibility.
         (b)   Have a root area which interferes with the curb and sidewalk,
and have roots which come to the surface.
         (c)   Interfere with fire hydrants, traffic-control, or other
utilities.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.32 RULE 1.6 SAFETY CLEARANCE.
   (A)   (1)   After the effective date of these regulations in all zoning
districts where yards are required adjacent to the intersection of two streets,
no structure, planting or fence shall be erected or maintained which is higher
than three feet above the street grade or more than 10% solid within a triangle
formed by the intersection street property lines and a line between two points
located 20 feet from such intersecting lines.
      (2)   This requirement shall include the additional land in the triangle
area formed by extending such line to the street edge.
   (B)   Shrubs and trees growing in violation of this rule on the date these
regulations become effective may be removed in the manner provided by §
99.02 of the Code of Ordinances, if, after evaluation of and documentation of
vehicle speeds, traffic volume, accident experience, right-of-way width,
direction of vehicle travel and all other related factors, it is determined by
the Traffic Engineer that such shrubs or trees create a safety hazard to
motorists, bicyclists or pedestrians.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall attempt to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Division of Public Works, or shall cause or authorize or procure the same, or
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, with the exception of §
99.11, or rules adopted pursuant thereto, upon conviction thereof be subject to
a penalty as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
99.11 shall be held responsible for a municipal civil infraction and prosecuted
in accordance with the Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The fine for
violation of a municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be $50; the
second violation, $100; and the third or any subsequent violation within any
one calendar year, $250.
(Ord. 545, passed 3-6-78; Am. Ord. 771, passed 8-14-95)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
   
111.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
   
112.   MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES
   
113.   USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY BY TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
   
114.   USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
   
115.   RECREATIONAL MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
   
116.   ELECTRIC SCOOTERS/SKATEBOARDS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Business licenses required; state license not exemption
   
110.02   Application for license; investigations
   
110.03   Exhibition of license
   
110.04   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
110.05   Expiration date; renewal of license
   
110.06   Licenses non-transferable
   
110.07   Compliance with laws required
   
110.08   Payment of fees; exemption
   
110.09   License Review Board
   
110.10   Delegation of duties
   
110.11   Required licenses
Regulations for Specific Businesses
   
110.25   Junk dealers
   
110.26   Pawnbrokers
   
110.27   Vendors
   
110.28   Transitory food service units
   
110.29   Going out of business sales
   
110.30   Pedicabs
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 BUSINESS LICENSES REQUIRED; STATE LICENSE NOT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall, directly or indirectly, operate, conduct, maintain or
manage any business or premises for which any license or permit is required by
any provision of this chapter or code without first procuring a license or
permit from the city in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The fact that a license or permit has been granted to any person by
the state to engage in the operation, conduct, maintenance or management of any
business or premises shall not exempt such person from the necessity of
procuring a license or permit from the city if such license is required by the
chapter.
(Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Application. Each person or entity required to procure a license from
the city shall make application for said license to the City Clerk in the form
and manner prescribed by him or her. The application shall include the
following:
      (1)   The full names, dates of birth, business addresses of the applicant
or entity and residence addresses of all owners, proprietors, officers,
members, partners and managers of applicant's business;
      (2)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to maintain
applicant's business and the length of time during which it is proposed that
such business be conducted;
      (3)   The wares, merchandise or services to be sold or offered for sale
by applicant in the city;
      (4)   The nature and kind of business which applicant proposes to conduct
and the manner of operating same;
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant or person conducting or managing
applicant's business has been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor or the
violation of any municipal ordinance and, if so, full particulars in connection
therewith.
   (B)   Investigations.
      (1)   Upon receipt by the City Clerk of an application for the license
required by §
110.01, the City Clerk or his or her designee shall investigate the applicant's
business and moral character for the protection of the public good. The
investigation shall be conducted within two business days. The investigation
shall include criminal history records inquiry (CHR) through the State of
Michigan. The applicant will be charged a non-refundable state filing fee for
the investigation.
      (2)   If as a result of such investigation the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the disapproval of the
City Clerk or his or her designee and the reasons for the same shall be
indicated on the application. The City Clerk shall notify the applicant that
his or her application is disapproved and that no license will be issued.
      (3)   If as a result of such investigation the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the City Clerk or
his or her designee shall endorse on the application his or her approval and
upon payment of the prescribed license fee and filing of proof of insurance, if
required, issue a license.
(Ord. - - ; Am. Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.03 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Persons licensed under this chapter are required to produce or exhibit
their license upon request of any individual and any city police officer, Code
Enforcement Officer or a representative from the City Clerk's office.
   (B)   A license issued under this chapter to a transient merchant shall be
posted conspicuously in the place of the business or vehicle named therein. If
a person applying for such a license desires to do business in more than one
place within the city, a copy of the license shall be posted conspicuously in
each.
   (C)   No licensee shall fail to display conspicuously on vehicles licensed
by this chapter such tags or stickers as are furnished by the City Clerk and
required by this chapter or code.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraud or misrepresentation on the application for the license;
      (2)   Fraud or misrepresentation in the course of conducting the business
of the vendor;
      (3)   Conducting the business of the vendor contrary to the conditions of
the license; or
      (4)   Conducting the business of the vendor in such a manner as to create
a public nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety or
welfare.
   (B)   Upon suspension or revocation of the license, the City Clerk or his or
her designee shall deliver in person written notice to the license holder or
their representative personally at the business location or by first class mail
to the address listed in the licensee's application stating the action taken
and the reasons supporting such action.
   (C)   Persons who are denied licenses or whose licenses are suspended or
revoked may appeal by filing a written notice of appeal with the License Review
Board. The appeal must be filed within seven days after receipt of the notice
of denial, suspension or revocation. The Board shall hear and determine the
appeal and the decision of the Board shall be final.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.05 EXPIRATION DATE; RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license year shall terminate on December 31 of the current year at
12:00 noon next after the issuance of such license. In all cases where the
provisions of this chapter permit the issuance of licenses for periods of less
than one year, the expiration date shall be indicated on the face of the
license.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, an application for renewal of a
license shall be considered in the same manner as an original application.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.06 LICENSES NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   No license or permit issued under the provisions of this chapter or code
shall be transferable.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.07 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license or permit required by this chapter or code shall be issued
to any person who is required to have a license or permit from the state until
such person shall submit evidence of such state license or permit and proof
that all fees appertaining thereto have been paid.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any applicant until such applicant has
complied with all of the provisions of this chapter and code pertaining to the
business for which application for the license is made, nor shall any license
be granted where the approval of any officer of the city is required prior to
the issuance until such approval is made.
(Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.08 PAYMENT OF FEES; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued until the fees as set forth in this chapter
or code shall be paid by the applicant to the City Treasurer.
   (B)   No license fee shall be required from any person exempt from payment
of the fee by state or federal law. Such persons shall comply with all other
provisions of this chapter. The City Clerk shall, in all such cases, issue to
such persons licenses which are clearly marked as to said exemption and the
reason therefor.
(Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.09 LICENSE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The License Review Board shall be composed of the same persons who
constitute the City Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The Board shall meet from time to time as needed.
   (C)   A quorum of the Board necessary to conduct a hearing shall be four
members and the vote of a majority of the Board present shall be required to
overturn any denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (D)   Evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
in the conduct of their affairs is to be admitted and given probative effect.
The decision of the Board shall be based upon the evidence produced and
admitted in the course of a hearing.
   (E)   Appeals of decisions of the Board may be reviewed in the County
Circuit Court to determine whether sufficient evidence exists in the record to
support the Board.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.10 DELEGATION OF DUTIES.
   The responsibilities of the City Clerk, Director of Public Safety, and/or
Chief Building Official as required by this chapter may be fulfilled by his or
her designees.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03)
§ 110.11 REQUIRED LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the following businesses or activities
without first obtaining a license which shall require payment of a license fee
in amounts set from time to time by City Commission resolutions:
      (1)   Auctioneers;
      (2)   Circus, menagerie, carnival, exhibition, side show;
      (3)   Junk dealers;
      (4)   Mobile food service providers;
      (5)   Pawnbrokers;
      (6)   Taxicab or pedicab businesses, vehicles, and drivers; and
      (7)   Vendors.
   (B)   No person shall engage in a “going out of business sale,” as defined
in § 110.29, without first obtaining a license which shall require payment of a
license fee as provided in §
110.29.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03;
Am. Ord. 982, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 999, passed 7-13-15; Am. Ord. 1078,
passed 5-9-22)
REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 110.25 JUNK DEALERS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of dealing in scrap iron, scrap
metal, scrap wood, used or salvaged auto parts or any form of goods commonly
considered as junk, nor assemble same at one location for the purpose of sale
without first procuring a license.
   (B)   No such license shall be granted:
      (1)   Except upon approval of the Director of Public Safety or his or her
designee, the Fire Department and the Building Official;
      (2)   For conducting such business on a vacant lot or in a partially
enclosed structure unless such property is enclosed with a properly maintained,
tight board or other type fence in accordance with all specifications of the
Director of Public Works to protect the health, welfare and safety of the
public;
      (3)   Whenever 65% or more of all property-owners within a radius of 300
feet measured from the boundary lines of the premises object in writing to the
City Clerk's office.
   (C)   Each licensee shall on demand exhibit all goods bought or received and
give the name, residence and a description of the person from whom the same was
purchased or received to any officer of the Police Department. He or she shall
keep a record or book written in ink in the English language containing the
name, residence and description of all persons from whom purchases are made.
   (D)    (1)   Each such license granted shall designate the particular place
where said business is to be conducted and no licensee shall engage in said
business at any place other than that so designated.
      (2)   No licensee shall purchase or receive any article:
         (a)   Between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         (b)   On Sunday;
         (c)   From any person intoxicated or under the age of 17 years without
written consent of parent or guardian; or
         (d)   From a person known or suspected to be a thief or a receiver of
stolen property.
(Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, "pawnbrokers" mean those individuals
identified in § 3 of Act No. 469, of the Public Acts 2002, being cited as
M.C.L.A. § 446.203.
   (B)   A person, corporation, or firm shall not carry on the business of
pawnbroker in the city without first having obtained a license as authorized by
Act No. 469, of the Public Acts 2002, being cited as M.C.L.A. §§ 446.201 et
seq.
      (1)   A license fee that shall be required to be paid to the city in
order to acquire a pawnbroker license pursuant to this chapter shall be set by
a resolution of the City Commission.
      (2)   As set forth in § 2 of Act 469 of Public Acts 2002, the bond that
is required to be given to the city is $3,000.
   (C)   A pawnbroker shall comply with all of the requirements of Act No. 231
of the Public Acts of 1945,as amended, being cited as M.C.L.A. §§ 445.451 et
seq., and Act No. 469 of thePublic Acts 2002, being cited as M.C.L.A. §§
446.201 et seq.
   (D)   Every pawnbroker, except those exempted by operation of division (C),
shall, within 48 hours, transmit to the Director of Public Safety by means of
electronic transmission through a modem or similar device or by delivery of a
computer disk, in such a format that the data are capable of direct electronic
entry into the city's computerized systems for identifying pawned property, all
transactions in whichthe pawnbroker received used goods the preceding day by
pawn, trade, purchase, or consignment. A transaction reported by electronic
transmission under this subsection shall not be reported on paper forms unless
the Director of Public Safety so requests.
   (E)   When reporting, a thumbprint of the persons pawning property shall be
electronically scanned and transmitted to the Director of Public Safety in the
same manner as division (A).
   (F)   A pawnbroker need not report electronically transactions taking place
at a business location where the number of pawn transactions in each 90 day
period does not exceed ten. A pawnbroker reasonably believing a location at
which he or she conducts a pawn shop qualifies under this subsection for
exemption from computerized reporting and wishing to be exempt from the
requirements of division (A) shall sign, under penalty of perjury, a
declaration to the effect in a form developed by the Director of Public Safety
or the Director of Public Safety's designee, and once the declaration is
signed, so long as the volume of transactions does not exceed ten each 90 day
period, pawn transactions taking place at that pawnshop need not be reported
electronically, but shall be reported on paper forms.
   (G)   If a licensee under this chapter or any of his or her employees is
found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter, the Director
of Public Safety shall report such violation to the City Clerk. The City Clerk
shall:
      (1)   Notify the City Manager and the licensee and provide the licensee
notice that the city intends to revoke his or her license; and
      (2)   Shall provide the licensee an opportunity to a hearing before the
City Clerk. If the City Clerk determines that the licensee has been found
guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager
shall then revoke the license. The violator, upon such revocation, shall not be
issued a license as a pawnbroker for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
(Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03; Am. Ord. 906, passed 2-14-05)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.27 VENDORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
vendors selling non-food items or items not intended for immediate consumption
in the City of Mt. Pleasant; to permit and regulate these units in various
districts; to reduce vehicular and pedestrian traffic congestion; to encourage
new business; and to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the city's
residents and visitors.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         PEDDLER. Any person who travels from place to place for the purpose of
attracting customers, distributing literature, displaying, selling, offering
for sale, leasing with the option to buy, taking orders for, or attempting to
take orders for the retail sale of any goods, property, or services (excluding
food) for current or future delivery. This includes persons traveling by foot,
vehicle, wagon, cart, or any other means, and those using pushcarts or
structures powered by bicycles or human power, with at least two operational
wheels.
         PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, or entity with a
common interest, including both principals and agents.
         TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm, association, or corporation
engaging temporarily in the retail sale of goods, wares, or merchandise in any
place in the city and temporarily occupying any private lot, building, room, or
structure. This excludes sales on city-owned property unless authorized under a
separate written agreement.
         VENDORS. Any peddler or transient merchant, as defined in this
section. This does not include persons selling at an art fair, farmers’ market,
festival, or similar special event if the sponsor has obtained a VENDOR's
license and the person provides the sponsor of the special event with their
sales tax license number.
      (2)   These definitions exclude:
         CHARITABLE FUNDRAISING STANDS. Tables or stands set up by 501(c)(3)
charitable organizations for fundraising activities involving the sale of food
products (e.g., bake sales, cookies, and popcorn). Such activities must comply
with all applicable regulations and be conducted in a safe and sanitary manner.
         INFORMAL CHILDREN'S ACTIVITIES. Activities such as children running
lemonade stands or similar informal setups.
   (C)   Permit requirements. No vendor may engage in the sale or distribution
of goods, property, or services in the city on public or private property
without first obtaining a permit from the city in the manner prescribed in this
section. The requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Application fee. The application fee will be set by resolution of
the City Commission. All fees must be paid at the time the application is
submitted.
      (2)   Background check. Applicants must undergo a background check, for
which a fee will be charged.
      (3)   Inspection. An inspection by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire
Department and/or Building Official is required before a permit is issued. This
inspection will ensure compliance with safety and building standards.
      (4)   Permit display. All permits issued must be available on site for
inspection upon request by a City Public Safety Officer or city official and
must be conspicuously displayed on the premises or any cart, stand, tent,
booth, motorized vehicle, mobile trailer, or similar apparatus used in the
business at all times.
      (5)   City park operations. Vendors operating in any city park must first
secure written permission from the Parks Director before applying for a license
and shall comply with all applicable park rental fees, rules, and regulations
in compliance with Chapter 97.
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Applications for a vendor permit must be submitted no more than six
months in advance and no less than five business days prior to the proposed
operation date to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Applications are to be on forms provided by the city and must state
under oath such facts as may be required for, or applicable to, the granting of
the permit.
      (3)   The applicant must pay a fee set by the City Commission. Fees must
be made payable to "The City of Mt. Pleasant."
      (4)   Permits are valid until December 31 of each year.
      (5)   A vendor using any gas or liquid heating may not receive a permit
until reviewed and inspected by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire Department.
      (6)   The application must include:
         (a)   Name, signature, phone number, email contact, and business
address of the applicant.
         (b)   Date of inspection by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire Marshal.
         (c)   Information on each vehicle, trailer, unit, or other device,
including year, make, model, vehicle identification number, vehicle or trailer
registration plate number, and dimensions.
         (d)   Proposed plans for power access, water supply, and wastewater
disposal.
         (e)   Copies of all necessary licenses or permits issued by the
Central Michigan District Health Department.
         (f)   Proof of a general comprehensive liability policy with limits of
no less than $1,000,000 combined single limit coverage and public liability and
property damage motor vehicle policy with limits of no less than $1,000,000,
naming the city as an additional insured.
   (E)   Regulations. All the following regulations must be followed by any
vendor operating in the city:
      (1)   Permitted areas of operation. Vendors may be located throughout the
city with the exception of SD-A (Agriculture) districts.
      (2)   Hours of operation. CD-3L (Sub-Urban Large Lot), CD-3 (Sub-Urban),
CD-4 (General Urban), CD-5 (Urban Center), CZ (Civic), SD-H (Hospital), SD-I
(Industrial), SD-RC (Research Center), SD-U (University), and PRD (Planned
Residential Development) from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., unless part of an
approved special event.
      (3)   Special events and farmers' market. Vendors may be located anywhere
in the city for a special event and/or as part of the farmers’ market. A
separate application is necessary for participation in the farmers’ market.
      (4)   Quality of goods. No vendor shall sell or offer for sale any
defective, faulty, or deteriorated article of goods. All items must be in good
working order, free from damage, and fit for their intended use.
      (5)   Sale of animals. No vendor shall sell, give, or offer to sell or
give, any animal, except for vendors that are 501(c)(3) charitable
organizations whose primary purpose is animal care, rescue, and adoption. Such
vendors must comply with all applicable laws and regulations and must operate
in a safe and sanitary manner for both humans and animals.
      (6)   Hospitals and schools. No vendor may operate within the right-of-
way of a hospital or school entrance or within 150 feet of the main entrance
unless written permission has been granted by the respective institution.
      (7)   Inspections. The vendor and/or equipment requiring inspection shall
be inspected annually by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire Department to verify
compliance with the adopted International Fire Code with amendments.
      (8)   Vehicle size. A vendor vehicle or trailer shall not exceed 36 feet
in length and nine feet in width. Vendor trailers are required to be detached
from the tow vehicle.
      (9)   Service window location. Service shall be conducted from the side
of the vendor vehicle that faces a curb, lawn, or sidewalk when parked on a
street. No service shall be provided on the driving-lane side unless part of an
approved special event.
      (10)   Waste management. Vendor must provide a waste container for public
use, which the operator shall empty at its own expense. All trash and garbage
originating from the operation must be collected and disposed of off-site by
the operators each day. Spills must be cleaned up immediately, and no dumping
of gray water on the streets is allowed. The use of public and private
dumpsters is forbidden unless the vendor has obtained written permission from
the owner.
      (11)   Noise. The operations shall meet the guidelines established in the
city Noise Ordinance, including generators. No loud music or other high-decibel
sounds, horns, or amplified announcements are allowed.
      (12)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting associated with the
vendor must be shielded to direct illumination downward.
      (13)   Signage. Signage is allowed on the vendor pursuant to city code.
Additionally, one auxiliary sandwich board sign not exceeding six square feet
in area and three feet in height is permitted. The auxiliary sign must not be
placed in vehicle travel lanes and must maintain at least a five-foot clear
pedestrian pathway. Signage affixed directly to the vehicle (such as vehicle
wraps) is not regulated under the city's sign standards.
      (14)   Advertising of alcoholic beverages. Vendors shall not offer or
advertise the offering of beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages.
      (15)   Unattended business. No vendor shall be left unattended and
unsecured. Any unattended vendor shall be considered a public safety hazard and
may be ticketed and/or towed at the owner's expense.
      (16)   Distance from special events. A vendor shall not operate within
500 feet of any fair, festival, special event, or civic event licensed or
sanctioned by the city unless the vendor has obtained permission from the event
sponsor.
      (17)   Parking. The issuance of a vendor license does not grant or
entitle the vendor to exclusive use of any service route or parking space. When
parked on public streets, units must conform to all applicable parking
restrictions and not hinder the lawful parking or operation of other vehicles.
No vendor vehicle, trailer, or tent may be left overnight, or unattended on
public property, unless specified in a special events permit.
      (18)   Pedestrian traffic and movement. No vendor may block, obstruct,
restrict, or otherwise interfere with the flow of pedestrian foot traffic,
movement, or access to public walkways, trails or public amenities. Five feet
of clear pedestrian pathway must be retained.
      (19)   Vehicle traffic and movement. No vendor may block, obstruct,
restrict, or otherwise interfere with the movement of vehicular traffic or
designated public parking.
      (20)   Private property. Vendor may operate on private property only with
owner consent and in compliance with the city Zoning Code.
      (21)   Awning/signage clearance. When extended, vendor awnings must have
a minimum clearance of eight feet.
      (22)   Tents. A vendor tent exceeding ten feet by ten feet requires a
separate tent permit from the city.
      (23)   Utilities. Any power required for vendor operation on public
property must be self-contained. Vendor units on private property may use
electrical power from the property with written consent from the property
owner. Vendor operators are prohibited from utilizing any city electrical
outlets, drawing water from city hydrants, or disposing of liquid wastes,
including, but not limited to, grease, into storm or sanitary sewers. Power for
the vendor must be from an adequate source to function all necessary equipment.
      (24)   Emissions. Only reasonable vapors, steam, or exhaust will be
permitted to emit from the vendor vehicle, trailer, or tent.
      (25)   Generator use. The use of generators by vendor may be prohibited
if the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire Department determines that their use,
location, or condition is anticipated to create a nuisance or safety hazard to
neighbors, pedestrians, or other nearby businesses. Factors considered in
determining whether a generator constitutes a nuisance or safety hazard include
noise levels, exhaust emissions, vibration, and any potential safety risks. If
approved, the units shall comply with the IFC and a fire extinguisher shall be
present near the unit (IFC, chapter 12). Vendors must ensure that generators
are well-maintained, comply with all local noise ordinances, and are positioned
to minimize disturbances and risks to the surrounding area.
      (26)   Compliance with codes and laws. The vendor must comply with all
local, county, state, and federal codes and laws with jurisdiction over its
operation, and product sales.
      (27)   Non-transferable permits. A vendor license issued under this
section shall not be transferable:
         (a)   Person to person. Licenses cannot be transferred from one
individual to another.
         (b)   Vehicle to vehicle or unit to unit. Licenses are specific to the
original vehicle or unit for which they were issued and cannot be transferred
to another vehicle or unit. This restriction does not apply to vehicles used
for towing or pulling the vendor.
         (c)   Business to business. Licenses are valid for one business only
and cannot be transferred between different businesses.
   (F)   Indemnification. A permit holder agrees to hold harmless and indemnify
the City of Mt. Pleasant, its agencies, employees, or agents in all matters
arising from the permitted application or operation of the vendor.
   (G)   Insurance. A vendor permit holder operating on public property must
have no less than $1,000,000 business liability insurance naming the City of
Mt. Pleasant as an additional insured. Proof of insurance must be submitted
with the permit application.
   (H)   Impoundment. Any equipment associated with a vendor not in compliance
with this section and left on public property may be impounded at the owner's
expense.
   (I)   Non-exclusivity. No provision in this chapter limits the right of a
vendor or its operator to offer or sell its products to the general public,
other businesses, or municipalities before, during, or after the operation
permitted herein.
   (J)   Revocation, suspension, or refusal; appeal. A vendor permit may be
revoked, suspended, or not renewed for failure to comply with this section. The
city must provide notice and an opportunity to be heard before revoking or
suspending a permit. Appeals can be made to the City Commission within ten
days.
   (K)   Other permits. A vendor permit under this section does not relieve any
unit of its responsibility for obtaining other permits or licenses required by
any other ordinance, statute, law, or administrative rule.
(Ord. 753, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03; Am. Ord. 982, passed
10-14-13; Am. Ord. 990, passed 10-13-14; Am. Ord. 1101, passed 9-23-24)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 TRANSITORY FOOD SERVICE UNITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations for
transitory food service units (TFSU) in the City of Mt. Pleasant; to permit and
regulate these units in various districts; to reduce vehicular and pedestrian
traffic congestion; to encourage new business; and to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the city's residents and visitors.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TRANSITORY FOOD SERVICE UNIT. A motorized vehicle, including a pulled
mobile trailer, temporary food service station, cart, smoker, grill, freezing
or cutting unit, or similar apparatus that engages in the storage, preparation,
service, sale, or distribution of ready-to-eat or immediately consumable food
items to the public directly from the unit. This includes a "special transitory
food unit" and a "temporary food establishment" as defined under the Michigan
Food Law, M.C.L.A. § 289.1111. This definition excludes:
         (a)   CHARITABLE FUNDRAISING STANDS. Tables or stands set up by 501(c)
(3) charitable organizations for fundraising activities involving the sale of
food products (e.g., bake sales, cookies, popcorn). Such activities must comply
with all applicable regulations and be conducted in a safe and sanitary manner.
         (b)   INFORMAL CHILDREN'S ACTIVITIES. Activities such as children
running lemonade stands or similar informal setups.
   (C)   Permit requirements. No TFSU may engage in the preparation, service,
sale, or distribution of food in the city on public or private property without
first obtaining a permit from the city in the manner prescribed in this
section. The requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Application fee. The application fee will be set by resolution of
the City Commission. All fees must be paid at the time the application is
submitted.
      (2)   Background check. Applicants must undergo a background check, for
which an additional fee will be charged.
      (3)   Inspection. An inspection by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire
Department and/or Building Official is required before a permit is issued. This
inspection will ensure compliance with safety and building standards.
      (4)   Permit display. All permits issued must be available on site for
inspection upon request by a City Public Safety Officer or city official and
must be conspicuously displayed on the premises or any cart, stand, tent,
booth, motorized vehicle, mobile trailer, or similar apparatus used in the
business at all times.
      (5)   City park operations. TFSUs operating in any city park must first
secure written permission from the Parks Director before applying for a license
and shall comply with all applicable park rental fees, rules, and regulations
in compliance with Chapter 97.
   (D)   Applications.
      (1)   Applications for a TFSU permit must be submitted no more than six
months in advance and no less than 14 days prior to the proposed operation
date.
      (2)   Applications are to be on forms provided by the city and must state
under oath such facts as may be required for, or applicable to, the granting of
the permit.
      (3)   The applicant must pay a fee set by the City Commission. Fees must
be made payable to "The City of Mt. Pleasant."
      (4)   Permits are valid until December 31 of each year.
      (5)   A TFSU using any gas or liquid for cooking or heating may not
receive a permit until reviewed and inspected by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire
Department.
      (6)   The application must include:
         (a)   Name, signature, phone number, email contact, and business
address of the applicant.
         (b)   Date of food truck inspection by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire
Marshal.
         (c)   Information on each vehicle, trailer, unit or other device,
including year, make, model, vehicle identification number, vehicle or trailer
registration plate number, and dimensions.
         (d)   Proposed plans for power access, water supply, and wastewater
disposal.
         (e)   Copies of all necessary licenses or permits issued by the
Central Michigan District Health Department.
         (f)   Proof of a general comprehensive liability policy with limits of
no less than $1,000,000 combined single limit coverage and public liability and
property damage motor vehicle policy with limits of no less than $1,000,000,
naming the city as an additional insured.
         (g)   Dependent on location, outdoor seating, including but not
limited to tables, chairs, booths, stools, benches, or stand-up counters, shall
be subject to the approval of the Downtown Development Director, City Engineer,
Parks and Public Spaces Director or their designee.
   (E)   Regulations. All the following regulations must be followed by any
TFSU operating in the city:
      (1)   Permitted areas of operation. TFSU may be located throughout the
city with the exception of SD-A (Agriculture) districts.
      (2)   Hours of operation.
         (a)   CD-3L (Sub-Urban Large Lot), CD-3 (Sub-Urban), CZ (Civic), SD-H
(Hospital), SD-I (Industrial), SD-RC (Research Center), SD-U (University), and
PRD (Planned Residential Development) from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., unless part
of an approved special event.
         (b)   CD-4 (General Urban) and CD-5 (Urban Center) from 9:00 a.m. to
11:00 p.m., unless part of an approved special event or within the Central
Business District.
         (c)   Central Business District from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m., unless
part of an approved special event.
      (3)   Special events and farmers' market. TFSUs may be located anywhere
in the city for special events and/or as part of the farmers' market. TFSUs
must obtain permission from the event organizer to participate. Additionally, a
separate application is required for TFSU participation in city-sponsored
events or at the city's farmers' market.
      (4)   Proximity to restaurants. TFSUs shall not be within 150 feet of any
entrance to an existing, brick-and-mortar restaurant during the hours when such
kitchen is open, unless written permission is given by the restaurant owner.
      (5)   Hospitals and schools. No TFSU may operate within the right-of-way
of a hospital or school entrance or within 150 feet of the main entrance unless
written permission has been granted by the respective institution.
      (6)   Inspections. The TFSU and/or equipment shall be inspected annually
by the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire Department to verify compliance with the
adopted International Fire Code with amendments.
      (7)   Vehicle size. A TFSU vehicle or trailer shall not exceed 36 feet in
length and nine feet in width. TFSU trailers are required to be detached from
the tow vehicle.
      (8)   Service window location. Food and beverage service shall be
conducted from the side of the TFSU that faces a curb, lawn, or sidewalk when
parked on a street. No food service shall be provided on the driving-lane side
of the truck unless part of an approved special event. No food shall be
actively prepared, sold, or displayed outside of a TFSU unless part of an
approved special event.
      (9)   Dining area. Dependent on location, outdoor seating, including, but
not limited to, tables, chairs, booths, stools, benches, or stand-up counters,
shall be subject to the approval of the Downtown Development Director, City
Engineer, Parks and Public Spaces Director or their designee.
      (10)   Waste management. All TFSU must provide a waste container for
public use, which the operator shall empty at its own expense. All trash and
garbage originating from the operation must be collected and disposed of off-
site by the operators each day. Spills of food or food by-products must be
cleaned up immediately, and no dumping of gray water on the streets is allowed.
The use of public and private dumpsters is forbidden unless the TFSU has
obtained permission from the owner.
      (11)   Noise. The operation of all TFSU shall meet the city Noise
Ordinance, including generators. No loud music, other high-decibel sounds,
horns, or amplified announcements are allowed.
      (12)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting associated with the TFSU
must be shielded to direct illumination downward.
      (13)   Signage. Signage is allowed on TFSUs in accordance with city code.
Additionally, one auxiliary sandwich board sign not exceeding six square feet
in area and three feet in height is permitted. The auxiliary sign must not be
placed in vehicle travel lanes and must maintain at least a five-foot clear
pedestrian pathway. Signage affixed directly to the vehicle (such as vehicle
wraps) is not regulated under the city's sign standards.
      (14)   Advertising of alcoholic beverages. TFSUs shall not offer or
advertise the offering of beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages.
      (15)   Unattended business. No TFSU shall be left unattended and
unsecured at any time food is in the vehicle. Any unattended TFSU shall be
considered a public safety hazard and may be ticketed and/or towed at the
owner's expense.
      (16)   Distance from special events. A TFSU shall not operate within 500
feet of any fair, festival, special event, or civic event licensed or
sanctioned by the city unless the vendor has obtained permission from the event
sponsor.
      (17)   Parking. The issuance of a TFSU license does not grant or entitle
the vendor to exclusive use of any service route or parking space. When parked
on public streets, units must conform to all applicable parking restrictions
and not hinder the lawful parking or operation of other vehicles. No TFSU may
be left overnight, or unattended on public property, unless specified in a
special events permit.
      (18)   Pedestrian traffic and movement. No TFSU may block, obstruct,
restrict, or otherwise interfere with the flow of pedestrian foot traffic,
movement or access to public walkways, trails or public amenities. Five feet of
clear pedestrian pathway must be retained.
      (19)   Vehicle traffic and movement. No TFSU may block, obstruct,
restrict, or otherwise interfere with the movement of vehicular traffic, or
designated public parking.
      (20)   Private property. TFSUs may operate on private property only with
owner consent.
      (21)   Tents. A TFSU tent exceeding ten feet by ten feet requires a
separate tent permit from the city.
      (22)   Awning/signage clearance. When extended, TFSU awnings must have a
minimum clearance of eight feet.
      (23)   Utilities. Any power required for TFSU operation on public
property must be self-contained. TFSUs on private property may use electrical
power from the property with written consent from the property owner. TFSU
operators are prohibited from utilizing any city electrical outlets, drawing
water from city hydrants, or disposing of liquid wastes, including but not
limited to grease, into storm or sanitary sewers. Power for the TFSU must be
from an adequate source to function all necessary equipment in the kitchen
facility.
      (24)   Emissions. Only reasonable vapors, steam, or exhaust will be
permitted to emit from the TFSU.
      (25)   Generator use. The use of generators by TFSU may be prohibited if
the City of Mt. Pleasant Fire Department determines that their use, location,
or condition is anticipated to create a nuisance or safety hazard to neighbors,
pedestrians, or other nearby businesses. Factors considered in determining
whether a generator constitutes a nuisance or safety hazard include noise
levels, exhaust emissions, vibration, and any potential safety risks. If
approved, the units shall comply with the IFC and a fire extinguisher shall be
present near the unit (IFC, Chapter 12). TFSU operators must ensure that
generators are well-maintained, comply with all local noise ordinances, and are
positioned to minimize disturbances and risks to the surrounding area.
      (26)   Compliance with laws. The TFSU must comply with all local, state,
and federal laws set forth by the Michigan Food Code, Michigan Health
Department, USDA, Michigan Department of Agriculture, Michigan Secretary of
State, Michigan Liquor Control Code, Internal Revenue Service, International
Fire Code, Central Michigan District Health Department, or any other agency or
entity with lawful jurisdiction over the transitory food service unit, its
operation, and product sales.
      (27)   Non-transferable permits. A TFSU license issued under this section
shall not be transferable:
         (a)   Person to person. Licenses cannot be transferred from one
individual to another.
         (b)   Vehicle to vehicle or unit to unit. Licenses are specific to the
original vehicle or unit for which they were issued and cannot be transferred
to another vehicle or unit. This restriction does not apply to vehicles used
for towing or pulling the TFSU.
         (c)   Business to business. Licenses are valid for one business only
and cannot be transferred between different businesses.
   (F)   Indemnification. A permit holder agrees to hold harmless and indemnify
the City of Mt. Pleasant, its agencies, employees, or agents in all matters
arising from the permitted application or operation of the TFSU.
   (G)   Insurance. A TFSU permit holder operating on public property must have
no less than $1,000,000 business liability insurance naming the City of Mt.
Pleasant as an additional insured. Proof of insurance must be submitted with
the permit application.
   (H)   Impoundment. Any equipment associated with a TFSU not in compliance
with this section and left on public property may be impounded at the owner's
expense.
   (I)   Non-exclusivity. No provision in this chapter limits the right of a
TFSU or its operator to offer or sell its products to the general public, other
businesses, or municipalities before, during, or after the operation permitted
herein.
   (J)   Revocation, suspension, or refusal; appeal. A TFSU permit may be
revoked, suspended, or not renewed for failure to comply with this section. The
city must provide notice and an opportunity to be heard before revoking or
suspending a permit. Appeals can be made to the City Commission within ten
days.
   (K)   Other permits. A TFSU permit under this section does not relieve any
unit of its responsibility for obtaining other permits or licenses required by
any other ordinance, statute, law, or administrative rule.
(Ord. 982, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 990, passed 10-13-14; Am. Ord. 1102,
passed 9-23-24)
§ 110.29 GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY CLERK. The duly appointed City Clerk of the City or his or her
designee.
      GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE. Any sale, whether described by that name or
by any other name such as, but not limited to, CLOSING OUT SALE, LIQUIDATION
SALE, LOST OUR LEASE SALE, FORCED TO VACATE SALE, held in such a manner as to
indicate a belief that upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand, the
business will cease or no longer continue at the premises where the sale is
conducted.
      GOODS. All goods, wares, merchandise and other personal property,
excepting, choses in action and money.
      REMOVAL SALE. Any sale held in such a manner as to induce a belief that
upon dismissal of the stock of goods on hand, the business will cease and
discontinue at the premises where the sale is conducted and thereafter will be
moved to and occupy another location.
   (B)   License required. No person shall advertise, represent or hold out
that any sale of goods is an insurance, bankruptcy, mortgage, insolvent,
assignee’s executor’s, administrator’s, receiver’s trustee’s, removal sale,
going out of business sale or sale of goods damaged by fire, smoke, water or
otherwise, unless he or she first obtains a license to conduct the sale from
the City Clerk. This section shall not apply to any sales by a person regularly
engaged in insurance or salvage sale of goods, or the sale of goods which have
been damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise, who acquired the goods for the
account of others as a result of fire or other casualty, sheriffs, constables,
or other public or court officers, or to any other person or persons acting
under the license, direction or authority of any court, state or federal,
selling goods, wares or merchandise in the course of their official duties.
   (C)   License application. Any applicant for a license under this section
shall file an application in writing and under oath with the City Clerk that is
in a form provided by the City Clerk and that provides the following facts and
information regarding such a proposed sale:
      (1)   The name, postal address, telephone number, and electronic mail
address of the applicant for the license, who must be the owner of the goods to
be sold, and in addition, if the applicant is a partnership, corporation, firm
or association, the name and the position of the individual filing such
application.
      (2)   The name and style in which such sale is to be conducted and the
address where the sale is to be conducted.
      (3)   The dates and period of time during which the sale is to be
conducted.
      (4)   The name, postal address, telephone number, and electronic mail
address of the person who will be in charge and responsible for the conduct of
the sale.
      (5)   A full explanation of the condition or necessity which is the
occasion for the sale, including a statement of the descriptive name of the
sale and the reasons why the name is truthfully descriptive of the sale. If the
application is for a license to conduct a going out of business sale, it shall
also contain a statement that the business will be discontinued at the premises
where the sale is to be conducted upon termination of the sale. If the
application is for a license to conduct a removal sale, it shall also contain a
statement that the business will be discontinued at the premises where the sale
is to be conducted upon termination of the sale, in addition to the location of
the premises to which the business is to be moved. If the application is for a
license to conduct a sale of goods damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise,
it shall also contain a statement as to the time, location and cause of the
damage.
      (6)   A full, detailed and complete inventory of the goods that are to be
sold, which inventory shall:
         (a)   Itemize the goods to be sold and contain sufficient information
concerning each item, including make and brand name, if any, to clearly
identify it.
         (b)   List separately any goods which were purchased during a 60-day
period immediately prior to the date of making application for the license.
         (c)   Show the cost price of each item in the inventory together with
the name and address of the seller of the items to the applicant, the date of
the purchase, the date of the delivery of each item to the applicant and the
total value of the inventory at cost.
       (7)   A statement that no goods will be added to the inventory after the
application is made or during the sale and that the inventory contains no goods
received on consignment.
   (D)   License; issuance and restrictions.
      (1)   The City Clerk, after receiving an application including all the
information under oath as required by division (C) above and upon receipt of
the fee provided for in division (E) below, may issue a license to the
applicant, authorizing the applicant to advertise, represent and sell the
particular goods so inventoried at the time and place stated in the application
and in true accordance with the provisions of this section. The license shall
be issued in duplicate and shall bear a number and date of its expiration. A
license issued under this section shall be granted and valid only for the sale
of the inventoried goods which are the property of the licensee. The license
shall apply only to the premises specified in the application, and it may not
be transferred or assigned. If a licensee under this section is engaged in
business in other locations, advertising or offering of goods on behalf of such
location shall not represent or imply any participation in or cooperation with
the sale on the premises specified in the license, nor shall any advertising or
other offering of goods on behalf of the premises where the licensed sale is
being conducted represent or imply any participation in or cooperation with
such sale at other locations. No license under this section shall be issued to
any person:
         (a)   To conduct a sale in the trade name or style of a person in
whose goods the applicant for the license has acquired a right or title thereto
within six months prior to the time of making application for such a license.
         (b)   To continue a sale in the name of a licensee under this section
whose goods such person acquired a right or title while such a sale is in
progress.
         (c)   To conduct a sale, other than an insurance sale, a salvage sale
or a sale of damaged goods, on the same premises within one year from the
conclusion of a prior sale of the nature covered by this section.
      (2)   Divisions (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), and (D)(1)(c) above shall not apply
to any person who has acquired a right, title or interest in goods as an heir,
devisee or legatee or pursuant to an order or process of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (E)   License; term, renewal, fee. A license to conduct a sale issued
pursuant to this section shall not be issued or valid for a period of more than
30 days from the start of the sale and the sale may be conducted only during
the period set forth in the license. The license may be renewed not more than
twice for a period not to exceed 30 days for each renewal upon affidavit of the
licensee that the goods listed in the inventory have not been disposed of and
that no new goods have been or will be added to the inventory previously filed
pursuant to this section, by purchase, acquisition on consignment or otherwise.
The application for renewal of the license shall be made not more than five
days prior to the time of the expiration of the license and shall contain a new
inventory of goods remaining on hand at the time the application for renewal is
made, which new inventory shall be prepared and furnished in the same manner
and form as the original inventory. No renewal shall be granted if any goods
have been added to the stock listed in the inventory since the date of the
issuance of the license. A fee in the amount set forth in Section 6 of 1961 PA
39, as amended from time to time, or in such other amount as shall be
established by resolution of the City Commission, shall accompany an
application for the license and for the renewal of a license, unless the City
Clerk receiving the application waives that fee.
   (F)   Clerk’s records. The City Clerk shall endorse upon the application the
date of its filing, shall preserve the same as a record of his office, and
shall make an abstract of the facts set forth in the application in a book kept
for the purpose, properly indexed, containing the name of the person asking
such license, the nature of the proposed sale, the place where the sale is to
be conducted, its duration, the inventory of the goods to be sold and a general
statement as to where the same came from and shall make in the book a notation
as to the issuance or refusal of the license applied for together with the date
of the same. The City Clerk shall endorse on the application the date the
license is granted or refused, and the application and abstract shall be prima
facie evidence of all statements therein contained.
   (G)   Advertisement. Any person who advertises, represents or holds out any
sale of goods to be an insurance, bankrupt, mortgage, insolvent, assignee’s,
executor’s, administrator’s, receiver’s, trustee’s, removal or going out of
business sale, or a sale of goods damaged by fire, water, smoke or otherwise,
without having first complied with the provisions of this act, is guilty of a
violation of this section.
   (H)   Purchase or addition of goods.
      (1)   No person in contemplation of conducting a sale, under a license as
provided in this section shall order or purchase any goods for the purpose of
selling and disposing of the same at such sale. Each unusual purchase and
additions to the stock of goods within 60 days prior to the filing of the
application for license to conduct the sale shall be presumptive evidence that
the purchases and additions to stock were made in contemplation of the sale and
for the purpose of selling the same at the sale and shall be presumptive
evidence of a violation of this section, shall each constitute a separate
offense under this section, and shall void any license issued to conduct a sale
under this section.
      (2)   No person carrying on or conducting a sale under a license as
provided in this section shall add, during the continuance of the sale, any
goods to the stock of goods described and inventoried in his or her original
application for the license. No goods shall be sold at or during the sale,
excepting the goods described and inventoried in the original application.
Every addition of goods to the stock of goods described and inventoried in the
application and each sale of goods not inventoried and described in the
application, shall be presumptive evidence of a violation of this section,
shall each constitute a separate offense under this section, and shall void any
license issued to conduct a sale under this section.
   (I)   Removal of goods. The license as provided for in this section shall be
valid only for a sale of the goods inventoried and described in the application
for such license, in the manner and at the time and place set forth in the
application. Any removal of the goods so inventoried and described in the
application from the place of sale mentioned in the application shall cause the
goods to lose their identity as an insurance, bankrupt, mortgaged, insolvent’s,
assignee’s, executor’s, administrator’s, receiver’s or trustee’s stock of goods
or a stock of goods being removed or closed out, or a stock of goods damaged by
fire, smoke or water, or otherwise, and no license shall be issued for the
conducting of a sale of any of such goods removed from the place described in
the application, under the provisions of this section, at any other place or
places.
   (J)   Unfair and deceptive business practices.
      (1)   The following unfair and deceptive business practices are strictly
prohibited in the course of a sale under this section:
         (a)   Causing a probability of confusion or misunderstanding as to the
source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of the goods.
         (b)   Representing that goods have sponsorship, approval,
characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, or quantities that they do not
have.
         (c)   Representing that goods are new if they are deteriorated,
altered, reconditioned, used, or secondhand.
         (d)   Representing that goods are of a particular standard, quality,
or grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model, if they are of
another.
         (e)   Disparaging the goods of another by a false or misleading
representation of fact.
         (f)   Advertising or representing goods with the intent not to dispose
of the goods as advertised or represented.
         (g)   Making a false or misleading statement of fact concerning the
reasons for, existence of, or amounts of price reductions, including but not
limited to advertising and/or conducting a going out of business sale when the
business continues to operate and advertising and/or conducting a removal sale
when the business continues to operate at its current location.
         (h)   Failing to reveal a material fact, the omission of which tends
to mislead or deceive the consumer, and which fact could not reasonably be
known by the consumer.
         (i)   Making a representation of fact or statement of fact material to
the transaction such that a person reasonably believes the represented or
suggested state of affairs to be other than it actually is.
         (j)   Using any other deceptive representations in connection with the
sale of goods.
      (2)   Engaging in an unfair and deceptive business practice in the course
of a sale under this section shall constitute a violation of this section. Both
the person engaging in the unfair and deceptive business practice(s) pursuant
to this division (J) and its employees, managers, and agents engaging in such
unfair and deceptive business practice(s) shall be held liable for a violation
of this section.
   (K)   Other requirements. Every applicant and licensee under this section
shall comply with all requirements of Act Number 39 of the Public Acts of
Michigan of 1961, as amended from time to time. Failure to comply therewith or
with the provisions hereof shall, in addition to any other penalties or
remedies be grounds for the denial, suspension or revocation of any license
obtained hereunder.
(Ord. 999, passed 7-13-15) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 PEDICABS.
   (A)   Findings of fact. The City Commission finds and declares that it is in
the public interest and public welfare that pedicabs be regulated under the
police power of the City of Mount Pleasant in order to promote the safety and
welfare of the citizens and visitors to the city; to reduce interference with
the flow of traffic through the city; that it is in the public interest that
pedicab drivers be properly qualified persons; that the pedicabs be fit for
their intended purpose; and that the safety and welfare of passengers be
protected in the operation of pedicabs. The City Commission further finds that
these aforementioned conditions may be adversely affected with the unregulated
use of pedicabs on a regular basis on the public streets of the city. This
section is authorized and adopted pursuant to sections 7b, 33, 518a, 624a,
625p, 657, 660, 662, 901 and 907 of the Michigan Vehicle Code (M.C.L.A. §§
257.1 et seq.), as amended.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this division, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      PEDICAB. Has the same meaning as a "commercial quadricycle" as defined by
section 7b as amended of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code (M.C.L.A. § 257.7b)
and is a vehicle that satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   The vehicle has fully operative pedals for propulsion entirely
by human power.
         (b)   The vehicle has at least four wheels and is operated in a manner
similar to a bicycle.
         (c)   The vehicle has at least six seats for passengers.
         (d)   The vehicle is designed to be occupied by a driver and powered
either by passengers providing pedal power to the drive train of the vehicle or
by a motor capable of propelling the vehicle in the absence of human power.
         (e)   The vehicle is used for commercial purposes.
         (f)   The vehicle is operated by the owner of the vehicle or an
employee of the owner of the vehicle.
      PEDICAB DRIVER. A pedicab owner or a person employed by a pedicab owner
who operates or is responsible for operating a pedicab.
      OPERATING LICENSE. A written license issued by the City Clerk pursuant to
this chapter that authorizes a person to operate a pedicab.
      PEDICAB OWNER or LICENSEE. A person or entity that is licensed pursuant
to this section to transport passengers on a pedicab for hire in the city.
   (C)   License required. No person or entity shall allow a pedicab to be
operated upon any street, alley, highway or road within the city until a
license has been issued by the City Clerk in accordance with this section and
subject to this chapter. Any person or entity violating this division (C) shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   Temporary permit. A pedicab owner may receive from the Clerk, upon
consultation and approval of the Chief of Police, a temporary permit, valid for
up to 14 consecutive days, for the use of public streets other than those
permitted by division (E).
   (E)   Operation limited to certain public streets. A pedicab may only be
operated on the public streets of the city and is otherwise limited as follows:
      (1)   Pedicabs may not operate on any street owned or maintained by the
Michigan Department of Transportation;
      (2)   Pedicabs may not operate on any street owned or maintained by the
Isabella County Road Commission;
      (3)   Pedicabs may not operate on any street owned or maintained by
Central Michigan University;
      (4)   Pedicabs may not operate on Pickard Street;
      (5)   Pedicabs may not operate on non-motorized trails or sidewalks;
      (6)   Pedicabs may only pick up and drop off passengers in locations
designated as an area for parking or for loading and unloading; and
      (7)   Notwithstanding the above prohibitions, pedicabs may cross
prohibited streets at intersections, and may only do so in compliance with
vehicular traffic control devices.
      (8)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to temporarily suspend
the operation of pedicabs within the city where, in the sole discretion of the
Chief of Police, conditions for such operation become unsuitable or unsafe.
      (9)   Criminal misdemeanor. Any person violating any provision of this
division (E) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99.
   (F)   Application for license.
      (1)   In addition to any other facts required by the Clerk pursuant to
this chapter, the application shall include the following information:
         (a)   The applicant's full name and residence address;
         (b)   The applicant's date of birth;
         (c)   The applicant's driver's license and number;
         (d)   A certificate of insurance satisfying the requirements of
division (L); and
         (e)   A description of the pedicab, including at least the trade name,
number of seats, serial number, if any, and body style.
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the application shall
include the name of the individual who will be acting as principal in charge of
the licensee and shall sign the application. All owners of the applicant shall
meet each of the requirements for individual applicants.
   (G)   Review of application. The application shall be reviewed in accordance
with this chapter.
   (H)   Validity of operating license.
      (1)   The licensee is responsible for maintaining a list of all employees
or contractors, including the licensee, who will operate the pedicab. The list
will include the driver's name, address, date of birth, and driver's license
number. The licensee shall conduct a background check for each pedicab driver
and shall not employ as a pedicab driver any individual who does not possess a
valid driver's license, or who has been previously convicted of a crime that
involves violence against a person, possession of a controlled substance, or
the operation of a vehicle under the influence of alcohol or a controlled
substance as defined by the Michigan Vehicle Code.
      (2)   The driver of each pedicab is responsible to control litter on the
vehicle and from its passengers so that it does not become windborne or is not
deposited onto the streets or upon private property whereby it is licensed to
operate.
   (I)   License fee. A fee in the amount specified by the City Commission
pursuant to the chapter shall be filed with the license application.
   (J)   Operating regulations.
      (1)   Pedicabs are only licensed to be operated in the city as provided
in division (E). Any person violating this division (J)(1) shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 shall operate a pedicab.
      (3)   No person shall operate a pedicab unless that person has a valid
driver's license. Any person violating this division (J)(3) shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (4)   No person shall operate a pedicab in an unsafe manner.
      (5)   All pedicab operators must operate a pedicab in compliance with all
traffic laws, rules, and regulations of the city and the State of Michigan,
including the Uniform Traffic Code and the Michigan Vehicle Code, unless
otherwise specified herein. Violations of the Uniform Traffic Code or Michigan
Vehicle Code are punishable as set forth therein.
      (6)   Pedicabs shall not be parked on streets, highways, or thoroughfares
and may only be parked, loaded or unloaded in designated areas as provided in
division (E). Any person violating this division (J)(6) shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (7)   A person shall operate a pedicab in compliance with section 625p of
the Motor Vehicle Code as amended. Notwithstanding the provisions in section
625p, no person shall operate a pedicab while intoxicated or while visibly
impaired by alcohol or a controlled substance. INTOXICATED or VISIBLY IMPAIRED
shall have the same meaning prescribed to those terms by the Michigan Vehicle
Code, as amended. Any person violating this division (J)(7) shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 . If the pedicab is so equipped or operated in a manner that the
provisions of M.C.L.A. § 257.625 apply, then violation of this division (J)(7)
shall be punishable as provided in the Motor Vehicle Code. In the event there
is a conflict between the provisions of this section and the Motor Vehicle
Code, the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Code shall prevail.
      (8)   No person shall operate a pedicab when the number of passengers
exceeds the number of available seats in the pedicab. No person shall operate a
pedicab unless all passengers are seated in a seat designed for that purpose.
Any person violating this division (J)(8) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (9)   Each pedicab owner shall adopt and operate a system for the
collection, storage, and return of personal property left in a pedicab.
      (10)   Pedicabs shall not be operated in the city between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. local time.
      (11)   Pedicabs shall be operated in a manner that does not impede the
normal flow of traffic.
      (12)   Alcohol may be consumed by passengers in the passenger area of a
pedicab being operated in compliance with this section. Pedicab operators shall
not sell or distribute alcohol, unless otherwise licensed for such activity by
the Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
   (K)   Fares. Fares to be charged for passenger service shall be established
by the licensee. Said fares shall be posted in a conspicuous place on each
pedicab.
   (L)   Insurance requirements.
      (1)   The owner of every pedicab shall procure for each such vehicle a
property damage and personal injury liability policy written by a company
authorized to do business in Michigan with a minimum best rating of A and
satisfactory to the City Clerk. The policy shall at a minimum be in the amount
of $1,000,000 per occurrence with a combined single limit of $2,000,000. The
policy shall provide that 30 days written notice shall be given to the City
Clerk before a policy is canceled, materially changed or not renewed. The city
shall be named as an additional insured. A certificate of insurance shall be
filed with the City Clerk at the time the application for license is filed and
include a copy of the additional insured endorsement.
      (2)   Termination of insurance. In the event of cancellation of the
policy of insurance required above, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
pedicab to allow said vehicle to be operated upon the streets, roads, alleys or
highways of the city.
   (M)   Pedicab regulations.
      (1)   All pedicabs shall be equipped with such safety devices as are
required by the State of Michigan.
      (2)   All pedicabs must be constructed for and have the structural
integrity to support pedicab operations. Each pedicab vehicle must be equipped
with the following:
         (a)   Front and rear illuminated turn signals;
         (b)   Headlights;
         (c)   Taillights;
         (d)   Rearview mirror;
         (e)   A bell or horn;
         (f)   Reflectors placed on each wheel and at each corner of the body
of the pedicab;
         (g)   A proper braking system, including rear break lights;
         (h)   Reliable back up or power-assist capabilities in the event human
power provided by passengers is insufficient to fully ascend any steep incline
encountered by the pedicab during normal operations;
         (i)   A sealed refuse container for use by passengers thereon;
         (j)   Any other equipment required to comply with all applicable
federal and state laws; and
         (k)   A pedicab must not have any cracks, broken or missing parts, or
other visible damage. All wheels must be firmly attached to the hub of a
vehicle and all springs, axles, and supporting structures of each pedicab
vehicle must be intact.
      (3)   Each pedicab operator at all times shall keep each pedicab vehicle
clean and free of refuse and in safe operating condition. Prior to the
operation of any pedicab and at the beginning of each shift or each day of
operation, the pedicab driver shall thoroughly inspect the pedicab for safe
operating conditions and shall maintain records of such inspection, which shall
be immediately presented for review upon request by any authorized city
official. For any condition found then or at any other time that will prevent
the safe operation of the pedicab, the pedicab operator shall immediately
remove the pedicab from service and correct the condition before the pedicab is
placed in operating service.
      (4)   Each pedicab shall have a unique, nontransferable vehicle
identification number, issued by the City Clerk visible on the rear of the
vehicle.
      (5)   Each pedicab owner shall prepare a training program for pedicab
operators covering, at a minimum, the safe operation of pedicab vehicles,
customer service policies, and the requirements of this section.
      (6)   If a pedicab is involved in an accident or collision, the pedicab
operator shall immediately notify the pedicab owner and the Police Department
and otherwise remain at the scene, unless it is unsafe to do so and otherwise
comply with the provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 257.618 or 257.622, as amended. Any
person violating this division (M)(6) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
      (7)   All pedicab drivers must display an identification badge provided
by the licensee. Each identification badge must contain the following
information:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Photograph; and
         (c)   Business address and telephone number of the company that owns
and operates the pedicab.
   (N)   Licenses granted pursuant to this section are subject to renewal,
suspension or revocation in accordance with this chapter.
   (O)   Violations; municipal civil infractions. A person who violates any
provisions of this section is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
unless otherwise designated. The first violation is punishable by a civil fine
of $100 plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation. Second and
subsequent violations are subject to a fine of $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each violation. A third violation within one year shall result
in immediate revocation of the license subject to this chapter. The Chief of
Police or his or her designee is hereby designated as the authorized city
official to issue municipal civil infraction violation notices (directing
alleged violators to appear at the City Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau)
for violations under this chapter as provided by this code.
   (P)   Conflicts. To the extent any provision of this section conflicts with
any applicable provision of state law, the state law provision shall prevail,
but only to the extent necessary to give state law full force and effect. To
the extent any provision of this section conflicts with any other provision of
this chapter, the provision that provides more restriction or a stricter
penalty shall prevail.
(Ord. 1078, passed 5-9-22)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction in
accordance with §§
36.01 et seq.  Except at otherwise provided, the fine for violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be $50 for the first offense; $100 for the
second offense; and $250 for third and subsequent violations within a 12-month
period. Each day in violation shall constitute a separate offense. Any person
violating the provisions of this chapter licensing mobile food service
providers, peddlers, or transient merchants shall be fined in accordance with
the following:
   (A)   Mobile food service providers licensed under §
110.28 violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined 150% of the
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission for
the first offense; 200% of the license fee as set from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission for the second offense; and 250% of the
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission for
third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period. Each day in violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Peddlers licensed under §
110.27 violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined 150% of the
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission for
the first offense; 200% of the license fee as set from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission for the second offense; and 250% of the
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission for
third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period. Each day in violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Transient merchants licensed under §
110.27 violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined 150% of the
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission for
the first offense; 200% of the license fee as set from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission for the second offense; and 250% of the
license fee as set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission for
third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period. Each day in violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Regardless of the penalty provided for in this section that applies to
the other sections contained in this chapter, any person violating any of the
provisions of §
110.29 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than
$100 nor more than $500 for a first offense, $500 for any subsequent offense,
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than ten days nor more than
90 days, or both such fines and imprisonment. In addition to the penalties
hereinabove provided in this division (D), any condition caused or permitted to
exist in violation of the provisions of §
110.29 shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day that such
condition continues to exist.
(Ord. 768, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 888, passed 2-24-03; Am. Ord. 982, passed
10-14-13; Am. Ord. 999, passed 7-13-15)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 111: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
111.01   Consistent interpretation
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Purpose
   
111.04   Applicability to permittees
   
111.05   Contacts, maps and plans
   
111.06   Use of public right-of-way
   
111.07   Indemnification
   
111.08   Insurance
   
111.09   Performance bond or letter of credit
   
111.10   Removal
   
111.11   Other items
   
111.12   Repealer
 
   
111.99
§ 111.01 CONSISTENT INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be interpreted and applied so as to be consistent with
the Metro Act and corresponding provisions of the forms of Metro Act permit
approved by the MPSC, including applicable MPSC, Metro Authority and court
decisions and determinations relating to same.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act, being Act 480 of the
Public Acts of 2006, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3301 et seq.
   CABLE OPERATOR. The same meaning as in the Act.
   CLAIMS. The meaning set forth in §
111.07.
   FACILITIES. The lines, equipment and other facilities of a permittee which
use or occupy the public right-of-way in the delivery of video services in the
city.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The franchise agreement entered into or possessed by a
video service provider with the city as required by M.C.L.A. § 484.3303(1), if
it is the standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established by the
MPSC.
   MANAGER. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee.
   METRO ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002, as amended, M.C.L.
A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.
   METRO ACT PERMIT. A permit to use the public right-of-way issued by the city
under
Chapter 113, which implements the Metro Act.
   METRO AUTHORITY. The same meaning as AUTHORITY in the Metro Act.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission, and having the same meaning as
the term COMMISSION in the Act and the Metro Act.
   PERMITTEE.   
      (1)   A video service provider without a currently valid Metro Act permit
but with either:
         (a)   A pre-existing agreement; or
         (b)   A currently valid franchise agreement.
      (2)   Upon applying to the city for and then obtaining a Metro Act permit
from the city, a video service provider is not a permittee and is no longer
required to comply with this chapter. A video service provider is also not a
permittee and is not required to comply with this chapter if it and the city
enter into a voluntary franchise agreement as described in §
111.11(B).
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, association, partnership, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENT. A cable television consent agreement predating the
effective date of the Act, January 1, 2007, which has not expired or been
terminated.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The same meaning as in the Act.
   VIDEO SERVICE. The same meaning as in the Act.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.  The same meaning as in the Act, and shall include
an "incumbent video provider" as referred to in M.C.L.A. § 484.3305(2).
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Under the Act, video service providers may obtain a franchise to
provide video services in the city using a standardized, uniform form of
franchise agreement established by the MPSC. This form includes the right to
use the public right-of-way to provide such service but does not contain right-
of-way management and related provisions.
   (B)   Telecommunications providers who obtain a standardized, uniform form
of franchise agreement generally will have previously obtained from the city a
permit under the Metro Act to construct and maintain their telecommunications
facilities in the public right-of-way. Such Metro Act permits set forth the
terms and conditions for such right-of-way usage, standard forms of such
permits were agreed to in a collaborative process between municipalities and
providers that was initiated by the MPSC, and such standard forms have since
been approved by the legislature and the MPSC.
   (C)   Because telecommunications providers typically provide video services
over combined video and telecommunications facilities, such Metro Act permits
generally provide adequate public right-of-way related protections for the city
and the public when such providers are providing video services.
   (D)   Other video service providers, in particular new providers or existing
cable operators, may not have a Metro Act permit issued by the city.
   (E)   The Act and the standardized, uniform franchise agreement require
video service providers with such an agreement to comply with all valid and
enforceable local regulations regarding the use and occupation of the public
right-of-way in the delivery of video services, including the police powers of
the franchising entity, and makes such right-of-way usage subject to the laws
of the State of Michigan and the police powers of the franchising entity.
   (F)   The Act and the standardized, uniform franchise agreement state that
franchising entities shall provide video service providers with open,
comparable, nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral access to the public
right-of-way, and may not discriminate against a video service provider for the
authorization or placement of a video service or communications network in the
public right-of-way.
   (G)   The Michigan Constitution reserves reasonable control of their
highways, streets, alleys and public places to local units of government, which
may exercise such authority through the use of their police powers.
   (H)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public
health, safety and welfare and exercise reasonable control over the public
right-of-way by regulating the use and occupation of such rights-of-way by
video service providers who lack a Metro Act permit from the city. This chapter
does so by setting forth terms and conditions for such usage and occupation
from the forms of Metro Act permit approved by the MPSC and approved by the
legislature in M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(1), thus providing open, comparable,
nondiscriminatory, and competitively neutral access to the public right-of-way
and not discriminating against a video service provider for the authorization
or placement of a video service or communications network in the public right-
of-way.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.04 APPLICABILITY TO PERMITTEES.
   All permittees shall comply with this chapter, except that a permittee need
not comply with the insurance provisions of §
111.08 if it is maintaining the insurance required by Section II.J of the
standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established by the MPSC
(which in accordance with the Act states that incumbent video providers shall
comply with the terms which provide insurance for right-of-way related
activities that are contained in its last cable franchise or consent agreement
from the franchising entity entered into before the effective date of the Act).
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.05 CONTACTS, MAPS AND PLANS.
   (A)   Permittee shall provide the Manager with the names, addresses and the
like for engineering and construction related information for permittee and its
facilities as follows:
      (1)   The address, e-mail address, phone number and contact person (title
or name) at permittee's local office (in or near the city).
      (2)   If permittee's engineering drawings, as-built plans and related
records for the facilities will not be located at the preceding local office,
the location address, phone number and contact person (title or department) for
them.
      (3)   The name, title, address, e-mail address and telephone numbers of
permittee's engineering contact person(s) with responsibility for the design,
plans and construction of the facilities.
      (4)   The address, phone number and contact person (title or department)
at permittee's home office/regional office with responsibility for engineering
and construction related aspects of the facilities.
      (5)   Permittee shall at all times provide Manager with the phone number
at which a live representative of permittee (not voice mail) can be reached 24
hours a day, seven days a week, in the event of a public emergency.
      (6)   Permittee shall notify the city in writing pursuant to the notice
provisions of its franchise agreement or pre-existing agreement (whichever is
then in effect) of any changes in the preceding information.
   (B)   Within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
facilities in the city, permittee shall submit route maps showing the location
of the facilities to the city, in the same manner and subject to the same
provisions as apply to telecommunications providers under M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3106
(7) and (8).
   (C)   Permittee, without expense to the city, shall, upon 48 hours notice,
give the city access to all "as-built" maps, records, plans and specifications
showing the facilities or portions thereof in the public right-of-way. Upon
request by the city, permittee shall inform the city as soon as reasonably
possible of any changes from previously supplied maps, records, or plans and
shall mark up maps provided by the city so as to show the location of the
facilities.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.06 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (Reserved).
   (B)   Permittee shall not allow the wires or any other facilities of a third
party to be overlashed to permittee's facilities without the city's prior
written consent. The city's right to withhold written consent is subject to the
authority of the MPSC under M.C.L.A. § 484.2361.
   (C)   Permittee, its contractors, subcontractors, and the facilities shall
not unduly burden or interfere with the present or future use of any of the
public right-of-way. Permittee's aerial cables and wires shall be suspended so
as to not endanger or injure persons or property in or about the public right-
of-way. If the city reasonably determines that any portion of the facilities
constitutes an undue burden or interference, due to changed circumstances,
permittee, at its sole expense, shall modify the facilities or take such other
actions as municipality may determine is in the public interest to remove or
alleviate the burden, and permittee shall do so within a reasonable time
period. The city shall attempt to require all occupants of a pole or conduit
whose facilities are a burden to remove or alleviate the burden concurrently.
   (D)   This chapter does not establish any priority of use of the public
right-of-way by permittee over any present or future permittees or parties
having agreements with the city or franchises for such use. In the event of any
dispute as to the priority of use of the public right-of-way, the first
priority shall be to the public generally, the second priority to the city, the
third priority to the State of Michigan and its political subdivisions in the
performance of their various functions, and thereafter as between other permit,
agreement or franchise holders, as determined (except as otherwise provided by
law) by the city in the exercise of its powers, including the police power and
other powers reserved to and conferred on it by the State of Michigan.
   (E)   Permittee, its contractors and subcontractors shall immediately
(subject to seasonal work restrictions) restore, at permittee's sole expense,
in a manner approved by the city, any portion of the public right-of-way that
is in any way disturbed, damaged, or injured by the construction, installation,
operation, maintenance or removal of the facilities to a reasonably equivalent
(or, at permittee's option, better) condition as that which existed prior to
the disturbance. In the event that permittee, its contractors or subcontractors
fail to make such repair within a reasonable time, the city may make the repair
and permittee shall pay the costs the city incurred for such repair.
   (F)   (1)   Permittee shall mark its facilities installed after the
effective date of this chapter as follows: aerial portions of the facilities
shall be marked with a marker on permittee's lines on alternate poles which
shall state permittee's name and provide a toll-free number to call for
assistance. Direct buried underground portions of the facilities shall have:
         (a)   A conducting wire placed in the ground at least several inches
above permittee's cable (if such cable is nonconductive);
         (b)   At least several inches above that, a continuous colored tape
with a statement to the effect that there is buried cable beneath; and
         (c)   Stakes or other appropriate above ground markers with
permittee's name and a toll-free number indicating that there is buried cable
below.
      (2)   Bored underground portions of the facilities shall have a
conducting wire at the same depth as the cable and shall not be required to
provide the continuous colored tape. Portions of the facilities located in
conduit, including conduit of others used by permittee, shall be marked at its
entrance into and exit from each manhole and handhole with permittee's name and
a toll-free telephone number.
   (G)   Permittee may trim trees upon and overhanging the public right-of-way
so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming into contact with the
facilities, consistent with any standards adopted by the city. Permittee shall
dispose of all trimmed materials. Permittee shall minimize the trimming of
trees to that essential to maintain the integrity of the facilities. Except in
emergencies, all trimming of trees in the public right-of-way shall have the
advance approval of Manager.
   (H)   The construction and installation of the facilities shall be performed
pursuant to plans approved by the city. The open cut of any public right-of-way
shall be coordinated with the Manager or Manager's designee. Permittee shall
install and maintain the facilities in a reasonably safe condition. If the
existing poles in the public right-of-way are overburdened or unavailable for
permittee's use, or the facilities of all users of the poles are required to go
underground then permittee shall, at its expense, place such portion of its
facilities underground, unless the city approves an alternate location.
Permittee may perform maintenance on the facilities without prior approval of
the city, provided that permittee shall obtain any and all permits required by
the city in the event that any maintenance will disturb or block vehicular
traffic or are otherwise required by the city.
   (I)   Permittee shall coordinate its construction and all other work in the
public right-of-way with the city's program for street construction and
rebuilding (collectively "street construction") and its program for street
repaving and resurfacing (except seal coating and patching) (collectively,
"street resurfacing"). The goals of such coordination shall be to encourage
permittee to conduct all work in the public right-of-way in conjunction with or
immediately prior to any street construction or street resurfacing planned by
the city.
   (J)   Permittee shall comply with all valid and enforceable federal and
state statutes and regulations, and all valid and enforceable local regulations
regarding the use and occupation of the public right-of-way, including the
police powers of the city, regarding the construction, installation, and
maintenance of its facilities, now in force or which hereafter may be
promulgated. Before any installation is commenced, permittee shall secure all
necessary permits, licenses and approvals from the city or other governmental
entity as may be required by law, including, without limitation, all utility
line permits and highway permits. The city shall not unreasonably delay or deny
issuance of any such permits, licenses or approvals. Permittee shall comply in
all respects with applicable codes and industry standards, including but not
limited to the National Electrical Safety Code (latest edition adopted by
Michigan Public Service Commission) and the National Electric Code (latest
edition). Permittee shall comply with all zoning and land use ordinances and
historic preservation ordinances as may exist or may hereafter be amended. This
section does not constitute a waiver of permittee's right to challenge laws,
statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations now in force or established in the
future.
   (K)   If the city vacates or consents to the vacation of public right-of-way
within its jurisdiction, and such vacation necessitates the removal and
relocation of permittee's facilities in the vacated public right-of-way,
permittee shall consent to the vacation and remove its facilities at its sole
cost and expense when ordered to do so by the city or a court of competent
jurisdiction. Permittee shall relocate its facilities to such alternate route
as the city and permittee mutually agree, applying reasonable engineering
standards.
   (L)   If the city requests permittee to relocate, protect, support,
disconnect, or remove its facilities because of street or utility work, or
other public projects, permittee shall relocate, protect, support, disconnect,
or remove its facilities, at its sole cost and expense, including where
necessary to such alternate route as the city and permittee mutually agree,
applying reasonable engineering standards. The work shall be completed within a
reasonable time period.
   (M)   The city shall have the right to sever, disrupt, dig-up or otherwise
destroy facilities of permittee if such action is necessary because of a public
emergency. If reasonable to do so under the circumstances, the city shall
attempt to provide notice to permittee. Public emergency shall be any condition
which poses an immediate threat to life, health, or property caused by any
natural or man-made disaster, including, but not limited to, storms, floods,
fire, accidents, explosions, water main breaks, hazardous material spills, etc.
Permittee shall be responsible for repair at its sole cost and expense of any
of its facilities damaged pursuant to any such action taken by the city.
   (N)   If eligible to join, permittee shall subscribe to and be a member of
"MISS DIG," the association of utilities formed pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 460.701
et seq., and shall conduct its business in conformance with the statutory
provisions and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (O)   If permittee has its facilities on poles of Consumers Energy, Detroit
Edison or another electric or telecommunications provider and Consumers Energy,
Detroit Edison or such other electric or telecommunications provider relocates
its system underground, then permittee shall relocate its facilities
underground in the same location at permittee's sole cost and expense.
   (P)   All personnel of permittee and its contractors or subcontractors who
have as part of their normal duties contact with the general public shall wear
on their clothing a clearly visible identification card bearing permittee's
name, their name and photograph. Permittee shall account for all identification
cards at all times. Every service vehicle of permittee and its contractors or
subcontractors shall be clearly identified as such to the public, such as by a
magnetic sign with permittee's name and telephone number.
   (Q)   Utility cabinets. Utility cabinets shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Proposed utility cabinets must not:
         (a)   Create an obstacle in the public right-of-way;
         (b)   Block a driver's view of the street or sidewalk;
         (c)   Create an attractive nuisance to children;
         (d)   Interfere with essential services;
         (e)   Detract from the streetscape;
         (f)   Have a negative impact upon property owners' rights to
attractive, well-maintained public spaces and rights-of-way.
      (2)   Placement of a utility cabinet shall not be:
         (a)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (b)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk;
         (c)   Within 30 feet of an approach to a stop sign or traffic control
signal located at the side of the road or within the lawn extension;
         (d)   In a place or manner that blocks egress from an emergency exit;
         (e)   Within ten feet of the intersection of a sidewalk or street and
the edge of a driveway;
         (f)   Within 75 feet of the center of the intersection of two streets;
         (g)   Within ten feet of a tree;
         (h)   Within ten feet of a mailbox owned by the United States Postal
Service;
         (i)   Within 30 feet of the approach to a bus stop;
         (j)    Within ten feet of an underground utility service (if the
utility is ground-mounted);
         (k)   Within 850 feet of another utility cabinet.
         (l)   In a public right-of-way adjacent to the front lot line of a
property.
      (3)   Utility cabinet specifications:
         (a)   There shall be only one cabinet per location; however, co-
location in the same cabinet may be permitted if approved by the Manager;
         (b)   Pole-mounted utility cabinets shall not exceed 30 inches in
width, 12 inches in depth, and 72 inches in height, and shall be mounted a
minimum of 12 inches above grade;
         (c)   Ground-mounted utility cabinets shall have a maximum height of
five feet and shall not exceed 80 cubic feet in volume, not including a meter
box. The meter box shall not exceed 22 inches in width, 9 inches in depth and
42 inches in height. Ground-mounted utility cabinets with or without meter
boxes shall be mounted on a concrete pad that is not to exceed 100 square feet;
         (d)   Utility cabinets shall be dark brown or green and not display
any advertising;
         (e)   Utility cabinets in the public right-of-way shall be mounted
with their width parallel to the street;
         (f)   Ground-mounted utility cabinets in public parks shall be
landscaped with plant material sufficient to screen the cabinet from view. The
cabinet owner shall maintain the landscape materials and replacement of them if
damaged at the owner's cost;
         (g)   All utility cabinets shall clearly display on the front of the
cabinet an identifying number as well as the owner's name, address, and
emergency phone number;
         (h)   Utility cabinets shall be maintained in good repair, and in a
structurally sound and sanitary condition. The existence of graffiti, stickers
or other similar defacement of a utility cabinet shall constitute an unsanitary
condition. Failure of a cabinet owner to comply with this division shall
authorize the city to cause the proper restoration to be made at the cabinet
owner's expense. To ensure compliance with this division, utility cabinets
shall be inspected by the cabinet owner on at least a bi-annual basis.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.07 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Permittee shall defend, indemnify, protect, and hold harmless the
city, its officers, agents, employees, elected and appointed officials,
departments, boards, and commissions from any and all claims, losses,
liabilities, causes of action, demands, judgments, decrees, proceedings, and
expenses of any nature (collectively "claims") (including, without limitation,
attorneys' fees) arising out of or resulting from the acts or omissions of
permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, successors, or
assigns, but only to the extent such acts or omissions are related to
permittee's use of or installation of facilities in the public right-of-way and
only to the extent of the fault or responsibility of permittee, its officers,
agents, employees, contractors, successors and assigns.
   (B)   The city shall notify permittee promptly in writing of any such claims
and the method and means proposed by the city for defending or satisfying any
such claims. The city shall cooperate with permittee in every reasonable way to
facilitate the defense of any such claims. The city shall consult with
permittee respecting the defense and satisfaction of such claims, including the
selection and direction of legal counsel.
   (C)   The city shall not settle any claim subject to indemnification by
permittee without the advance written consent of permittee, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld. Permittee shall have the right to defend or
settle, at its own expense, any claim against the city for which permittee is
responsible under this section.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Prior to beginning any construction in or installation of permittee's
facilities in the public right-of-way, permittee shall obtain insurance as set
forth below and file certificates evidencing same with the city. Such insurance
shall be maintained in full force and effect until the end of the term of its
franchise agreement or pre-existing agreement, (whichever is then in effect).
In the alternative, permittee may satisfy this requirement through a program of
self-insurance, acceptable to the city, by providing reasonable evidence of its
financial resources to the city. The city's acceptance of such self-insurance
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (B)   Insurance requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including completed
operations liability, independent contractors liability, contractual liability
coverage, railroad protective coverage and coverage for property damage from
perils of explosion, collapse or damage to underground utilities, commonly
known as XCU coverage, in an amount not less than $5,000,000.
      (2)   Liability insurance for sudden and accidental environmental
contamination with minimum limits of $500,000 and providing coverage for claims
discovered within three years after the term of the policy. Pursuant to the
2006 MPSC decision in Case U-14720, permittee need not comply with the
preceding sentence until such time after the effective date of this chapter
that it decides to place any new or existing facilities underground within the
public right-of-way in the city.
      (3)   Automobile liability insurance in an amount not less than
$1,000,000.
      (4)   Workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance with
statutory limits, and any applicable federal insurance of a similar nature.
      (5)   The coverage amounts set forth above may be met by a combination of
underlying (primary) and umbrella policies so long as in combination the limits
equal or exceed those stated. If more than one insurance policy is purchased to
provide the coverage amounts set forth above, then all policies providing
coverage limits excess to the primary policy shall provide drop down coverage
to the first dollar of coverage and other contractual obligations of the
primary policy, should the primary policy carrier not be able to perform any of
its contractual obligations or not be collectible for any of its coverages for
any reason during the term of the franchise agreement or pre-existing agreement
(whichever is then in effect), or (when longer) for as long as coverage could
have been available pursuant to the terms and conditions of the primary policy.
   (C)   The city shall be named as an additional insured on all policies
(other than worker's compensation and employer's liability). All insurance
policies shall provide that they shall not be canceled, modified or not renewed
unless the insurance carrier provides 30 days prior written notice to city.
Permittee shall annually provide the city with a certificate of insurance
evidencing such coverage. All insurance policies (other than environmental
contamination, workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance) shall
be written on an occurrence basis and not on a claims made basis.
   (D)   All insurance shall be issued by insurance carriers licensed to do
business by the State of Michigan or by surplus line carriers on the Michigan
Insurance Commission approved list of companies qualified to do business in
Michigan. All insurance and surplus line carriers shall be rated A+ or better
by A.M. Best Company.
   (E)   If the insurance policies required by this chapter are written with
retainages or deductibles in excess of $50,000, they shall be approved by
Manager in advance in writing. Permittee shall indemnify and save harmless the
city from and against the payment of any deductible and from the payment of any
premium on any insurance policy required to be furnished under this section.
   (F)   Permittee's contractors and subcontractors working in the public
right-of-way shall carry in full force and effect commercial general liability,
environmental contamination liability, automobile liability and workers'
compensation and employer liability insurance which complies with all terms of
this section. In the alternative, permittee, at its expense, may provide such
coverages for any or all its contractors or subcontractors (such as by adding
them to permittee's policies).
   (G)   Permittee's insurance coverage shall be primary insurance with respect
to the city, its officers, agents, employees, elected and appointed officials,
departments, boards, and commissions (collectively "them"). Any insurance or
self-insurance maintained by any of them shall be in excess of permittee's
insurance and shall not contribute to it (where "insurance or self-insurance
maintained by any of them" includes any contract or agreement providing any
type of indemnification or defense obligation provided to, or for the benefit
of them, from any source, and includes any self-insurance program or policy, or
self-insured retention or deductible by, for or on behalf of them).
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.09 PERFORMANCE BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT.
   The city may require permittee to post a bond (or letter of credit), in the
amount provided in M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3).
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.10 REMOVAL.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after the later of the term of its franchise
agreement or pre-existing agreement expires, permittee or its successors and
assigns shall remove any underground cable or other portions of permittee's
facilities from the public right-of-way which has been installed in such a
manner that it can be removed without trenching or other opening of the public
right-of-way. Permittee shall not remove any underground cable or other
portions of the facilities which requires trenching or other opening of the
public right-of-way except with the prior written approval of Manager. All
removals shall be at permittee's sole cost and expense. For purposes of this
division, CABLE means any wire, coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, feed wire or
pull wire.
   (B)   As soon as practicable after the later of the expiration of the term
of its franchise agreement or pre-existing agreement, permittee, or its
successor or assigns at its sole cost and expense, shall, unless waived in
writing by Manager, remove from the public right-of-way all above ground
elements of its facilities, including but not limited to poles, pedestal-
mounted terminal boxes, and lines attached to or suspended from poles.
   (C)   The schedule and timing of removal shall be subject to approval by
Manager. Unless extended by Manager, removal shall be completed not later than
12 months following the expiration of the later of the term of a franchise
agreement or pre-existing agreement. Portions of permittee's facilities in the
public right-of-way that are not removed within such time period shall be
deemed abandoned and, at the option of the city exercised by written notice to
permittee at the address provided for in the franchise agreement or pre-
existing agreement (whichever was last in effect), title to the portions
described in such notice shall vest in the city.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.11 OTHER ITEMS.
   (A)   Permittees shall faithfully perform all duties required by this
chapter.
   (B)   The Act allows local units of government and video service providers
to enter into voluntary franchise agreements that include terms and conditions
which are different from those required under the Act or which are different
from those in the standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established
by the MPSC. The Metro Act allows municipalities and providers to mutually
agree to Metro Act permit terms differing from those in the standard forms of
Metro Act permit approved by the MPSC. Current or prospective permittees who
desire terms different from those in this chapter, as applied to them, should
request such a voluntary franchise agreement or a mutually agreed to Metro Act
permit from the city.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to protect
and preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare of the public, and should
any provision or section of this chapter be held unconstitutional, invalid,
overbroad or otherwise unenforceable, such determination/holding shall not be
construed as affecting the validity of any of the remaining conditions of this
chapter. If any provision in this chapter is found to be partially overbroad,
unenforceable, or invalid, permittee and the city may nevertheless enforce such
provision to the extent permitted under applicable law.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.12 REPEALER.
   All ordinances, resolutions or rules, parts of ordinances, resolutions or
rules inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A permittee who violates any provision of this chapter is responsible
for a municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to such civil infraction
fines and costs as provided in this code. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the remedies available to the city in the event of a
violation by a permittee of this chapter.
   (B)   The Manager is designated as the authorized official of the city to
issue municipal civil infraction citations for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 959, passed 11-8-10)
CHAPTER 112: MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Authorized facilities
   
112.03   Application for authorization
   
112.04   Relocation of facilities, transfers of licenses, and expansion of grow
operations
   
112.05   General regulations
   
112.06   Violations
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases have the meanings ascribed to them when used
in this chapter:
   (A)   Co-location or co-located means the siting and operation of a
combination of multiple facilities or facility types at a single location.
   (B)   Facility means a location at which a license holder is licensed to
operate under the MMMFLA.
   (C)   Facility plan means the plans required to be submitted to LARA in
accordance with the MMMFLA rules that includes among other things diagrams,
floor plans, construction details, etc.
   (D)   Facility-specific step means the portion of the application for a
state operating license that follows the prequalification step and pertains to
the details of the proposed facility.
   (E)   Grower means a licensee that is a commercial entity located in this
state that cultivates, dries, trims, or cures and packages marihuana for sale
to a processor or provisioning center.
   (F)   LARA means the department of licensing and regulatory affairs and any
successor agency to the department.
   (G)   Licensee means a person holding a state operating license.
   (H)   Licensing board means the medical marihuana licensing board created by
the MMMFLA.
   (I)   Marihuana means all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., growing or
not; the seeds of that plant; the resin extracted from any part of the plant;
and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
the plant or its seeds or resin. Marihuana does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks, except the resin extracted from those stalks,
fiber, oil, or cake, or any sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. Marihuana does not include industrial hemp grown or cultivated, or
both, for research purposes under the industrial hemp research act.
   (J)   MMMA means the Michigan medical marihuana act, 2008 IL 1, as amended
MCL 333.26424 et seq.
   (K)   MMMFLA means the Michigan medical marihuana facilities licensing act,
2016 PA 281, as amended, MCL 333.27102 et seq.
   (L)   MMMFLA rules means rules, including emergency rules, promulgated by
LARA to implement the MMMFLA.
   (M)   Pre-qualification step means the portion of the application for a
state operating license pertaining to the applicant's financial background and
the criminal history of the applicant and other associated persons.
   (N)   Processor means a licensee that is a commercial entity located in this
state that purchases marihuana from a grower and that extracts resin from the
marihuana or creates a marihuana-infused product for sale and transfer in
packaged form to a provisioning center.
   (O)   Provisioning center means a licensee that is a commercial entity
located in this state that purchases marihuana from a grower or processor and
sells, supplies, or provides marihuana to registered qualifying patients,
directly or through the patients’ registered primary caregivers. Provisioning
center includes any commercial property where marihuana is sold at retail to
registered qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers. A
noncommercial location used by a primary caregiver to assist a qualifying
patient connected to the caregiver through LARA's marihuana registration
process in accordance with the MMMA is not a provisioning center for purposes
of this chapter.
   (P)   Safety compliance facility means a licensee that is a commercial
entity that receives marihuana from a facility or registered primary caregiver,
tests it for contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other cannabinoids,
returns the test results, and may return the marihuana to the facility.
   (Q)   Secure transporter means a licensee that is a commercial entity
located in this state that stores marihuana and transports marihuana between
marihuana facilities for a fee.
   (R)   Stacked grower license means more than 1 state operating license
issued to a single licensee to operate as a grower of class C-1,500 marihuana
plants as specified in each license at a facility.
   (S)   State operating license or, unless the context requires a different
meaning, “license” means a license that is issued under the MMMFLA that allows
the licensee to operate as a grower, processor, secure transporter,
provisioning center, or a safety compliance facility.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 112.02 AUTHORIZED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities eligible for authorization. The following medical marihuana
facilities may be authorized to operate in the city:
      (1)   Growers operating under Class A licenses;
      (2)   Growers operating under Class B licenses;
      (3)   Growers operating under Class C licenses;
      (4)   Provisioning centers;
      (5)   Processors;
      (6)   Secure transporters; and
      (7)   Safety compliance facilities.
   (B)   Co-location and stacked licenses. Co-location and stacked grower
licenses are permitted in the city. For purposes of the limitations provided in
division (A):
      (1)   A facility with a stacked grower license counts as a single grower;
and
      (2)   On a site with co-location, each license (other than stacked grower
licenses) authorized to operate within a single location counts as a separate
facility.
   (C)   Final authorization from city required. The authorization process
described in §
112.03 determines the locations in the city at which facilities may operate. A
proposed facility is not eligible for a state operating license until the clerk
grants final authorization pursuant to §
112.03(D).
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-11-18; Am. Ord. 1079, passed 5-9-22)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Submission. Beginning on October 1, 2018, a person may apply for
authorization to operate a facility within the city by submitting the following
items to the City Clerk. These items may be submitted to the Clerk before
applying for requisite zoning approvals. An application is not considered
complete until the City Clerk receives all of the following:
      (1)   A non-refundable application fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Commission.
      (2)   An advance of the annual administrative fee established in §
112.05(D).
      (3)   A photocopy of a valid, unexpired driver's license or state-issued
identification card for all owners, directors, and officers of the proposed
facility.
      (4)   A signed application (available in the Clerk's office), which must
include all of the following information and documents:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's name; date of
birth; social security number; physical address, including residential and any
business address; copy of government-issued photo identification; email
address; one or more phone numbers, including emergency contact information;
         (b)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names; dates of
birth; physical addresses, including residential and any business address; copy
of government-issued photo identifications; email address; and one or more
phone numbers of each stakeholder of the applicant, including designation of
the highest ranking representative as an emergency contact person; contact
information for the emergency contact person; articles of incorporation or
organization; assumed name registration; Internal Revenue Service EIN
confirmation letter; copy of the operating agreement of the applicant, if a
limited liability company; copy of the partnership agreement, if a partnership;
names and addresses of the beneficiaries, if a trust, or a copy of the bylaws
or shareholder agreement, if a corporation;
         (c)   The name, address, tax identification number, and current zoning
designations of the proposed medical marihuana facility;
         (d)   The name and address of the current property owner of record;
         (e)   If the current property owner is different than the applicant
(e.g. where the applicant has a lease, option, land contract, or other future
interest in the property), the property owner's signature is required in
addition to the applicant's.
            1.   An applicant may submit applications for multiple properties.
            2.    However, only one application shall be submitted per
property, unless the applications are for proposed co-located facilities.
         (f)   The proposed facility type;
         (g)   If the proposed facility type involves stacked growing licenses,
the number of licenses sought;
         (h)   A complete list of all marihuana permits and licenses held by
the applicant;
         (i)   Written consent for the city to inspect the facility at any time
during normal business hours to ensure compliance with applicable laws and
regulations;
         (j)   A location area map of the marihuana facility and surrounding
area that identifies the relative locations and the distances (closest property
line to the subject marihuana facility's building) to the closest real property
comprising a public or private elementary, vocational, or secondary school;
         (k)   A copy of all documents submitted by the applicant to LARA in
connection with the application for a state operating license under the MMFLA
(including documents submitted for prequalification);
         (l)   A copy of all documents submitted by the applicant to LARA in
connection with the application for a state operating license under the MRTMA,
if applicable;
         (m)   A copy of all documents issued by LARA indicating that the
applicant has been prequalified for a state operating license under the MMFLA;
and
         (n)   Any other information reasonably requested by the city relevant
to the processing or consideration of the application.
   (B)   Initial receipt period set by resolution. For any facility type
subject to numerical limitations under §
112.02, the city shall establish an initial receipt period that will commence
on October 1, 2018, and will end on a date to be set by resolution of the City
Commission. The City Commission shall adopt such resolution on or before
October 1, giving consideration to the number of applicants that have completed
the pre-qualification step of the state licensing process by that time.
   (C)   Clerk action upon receipt. The Clerk will accept and receive any
application that includes the required items listed above, unless the city has
already received an application for the same property (other than an
application for a proposed co-located facility) from another applicant. Upon
receiving a complete application, the clerk will time- and date-stamp the
application and inform the applicant of the following:
      (1)   The number of existing facilities of the proposed facility type
currently operating within the city;
      (2)   The number of pending applications for the desired facility type
      (3)   The date, time, and location of any drawing that may be conducted
pursuant to division (D).
   (D)   Conditional authorization. The City Clerk will conditionally authorize
facilities as follows:
      (1)   If, after close of business on the end date of the initial receipt
period, the city has received more applications for a given facility type than
would be permitted under §
112.02, the Clerk will conduct a drawing to randomly select applicants for
conditional authorization and to establish a waiting list for future
conditional authorizations for that facility type. The drawing will be noticed
and conducted as a public meeting.
      (2)   For any facility type not subject to numerical limits under §
112.02, or otherwise not subject to the drawing process described in division
(D)(1), the Clerk will conditionally authorize facilities in the order in which
applications are received.
      (3)   Once the Clerk has issued conditional authorizations for all of the
facilities of a given facility type that would be permitted under §
112.02, the Clerk will place subsequent applications at the end of the waiting
list for that facility type.
   (E)   Final authorization. The City Clerk will grant final authorization for
the facility if the applicant:
      (1)   Submits an application for special use authorization pursuant to §
154.410(B)(4)(p) of the zoning ordinance within 90 days of receiving
conditional authorization;
      (2)   Obtains special use authorization within 12 months of receiving
conditional authorization; and
      (3)   Obtains a state operating license within 18 months of receiving
conditional authorization.
   (F)   Expiration of conditional authorization. If the applicant for a
conditionally authorized facility fails to satisfy any of the deadlines
established above, the conditional authorization will expire. The City
Commission may extend any of the deadlines upon a showing of good cause.
   (G)   Waiting list and refund of administrative fee. The Clerk will keep and
maintain the waiting lists established pursuant to division (D) until the
maximum number of facilities of the type to which the list pertains are
operating in the city (at which time the Clerk will discard the waiting list).
If a conditional authorization for a proposed facility of that facility type
expires, the clerk will conditionally authorize the next application on the
waiting list. Upon discarding the waiting list, the Clerk will refund the
advance of the annual administrative fee established in §
112.05(D) to all applicants remaining on the waiting list.
   (H)   Newly available authorizations.
      (1)   For facility types for which the maximum number of facilities
specified in §
112.02 are operating in the city, an authorization will become available when:
         (a)   The state operating license for a facility with final
authorization expires or is revoked by LARA; or
         (b)   This chapter is amended to authorize additional facilities of
that facility type.
      (2)   When an authorization becomes available as described in division
(H)(1), the City Clerk will establish a 30-day application period to begin
within the next 60 days during which the city will accept applications from
interested persons, and will publish notice of the selected application period
in a newspaper of general circulation at least seven business days before the
beginning of that period.
      (3)   During the selected application period, the Clerk will accept
applications using the same process described in divisions (C) and (D) above.
If multiple applications are received during the application period, a drawing
will be conducted as outlined in division (D) above.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-11-18; Am. Ord. 1055, passed 2-10-20; Am. Ord. 1079,
passed 5-9-22)
§ 112.04 RELOCATION OF FACILITIES, TRANSFERS OF LICENSES, AND EXPANSION OF GROW
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   An existing facility may be moved to a new location in the city,
subject to applicable zoning regulations and approval by the Licensing Board.
   (B)   A license for an existing facility may be transferred to a new
licensee that intends to continue operating at the same location, subject to
approval by the Licensing Board.
   (C)   No further city approvals are required for the relocations and license
transfers described in this section.
   (D)   A licensee may expand growing operations by upgrading the class of the
license (e.g., from class A to class B, or from class B to class C), or by
obtaining a stacked license. To do so, the licensee must submit a new
application to the city satisfying the requirements in §
112.03(A), which shall include payment of the application fee and an advance of
any additional annual administrative fee that will be owed due to the addition
of stacked licenses. The application shall be conditionally approved upon
receipt of all required materials.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-11-18; Am. Ord. 1079, passed 5-9-22)
§ 112.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Submission of supplementary information to the city. Applicants for
city authorization and persons operating existing facilities in the city must
provide the City Clerk with copies of all documents submitted to LARA in
connection with the initial license application, subsequent renewal
applications, or investigations conducted by LARA. The documents must be
provided to the Clerk within seven days of submission to LARA, and may be
submitted by electronic media unless otherwise requested by the Clerk.
   (B)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Medical marihuana
facilities must be operated in compliance with the MMMFLA, MMMFLA rules, all
conditions of the facility's state operating licenses, and all applicable city
ordinances. Compliance with the foregoing does not create immunity from
prosecution by federal authorities or other authorities of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   No consumption on premises. No smoking, inhalation, or other
consumption of marihuana shall take place on or within the premises of any
facility. It shall be a violation of this chapter to engage in such behavior,
or for a person to knowingly allow such behavior to occur. Evidence of all of
the following gives rise to a rebuttable presumption that a person allowed the
consumption of marihuana on or within a premises in violation of this section:
      (1)   The person had control over the premises or the portion of the
premises where the marihuana was consumed;
      (2)   The person knew or reasonably should have known that the marihuana
was consumed; and
      (3)   The person failed to take corrective action.
   (D)   Annual fee. A licensee must pay a fee of $5,000 for each license used
within the city in order to help defray administrative and enforcement costs.
The holder of a stacked grower license must pay a separate fee in the amount of
$5,000 for each license. The initial annual fee(s) must be paid to the City
Clerk when the application for city approval is submitted. In each subsequent
year, fees are due no later than January 31.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-11-18; Am. Ord. 1079, passed 5-9-22)
§ 112.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Request for revocation of state operating license. If at any time an
authorized facility violates this chapter or any other applicable city
ordinance, the City Commission may request that LARA revoke or refrain from
renewing the facility's state operating license.
   (B)   Civil infraction. It is unlawful to disobey, neglect, or refuse to
comply with any provision of this chapter. A violation of this chapter is a
municipal civil infraction. Each day the violation continues shall be a
separate offense. Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance to the
contrary, violators shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First violation: $500;
      (2)   Second offense: $2,500; and
      (3)   Each subsequent offense: $5,000.
   (C)   Other remedies. The foregoing sanctions are in addition to the city's
right to seek other appropriate and proper remedies, including actions in law
or equity.
(Ord. 1038, passed 6-11-2018)
CHAPTER 113: USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY BY TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Conflict
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Permit required
   
113.05   Issuance of permit
   
113.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
113.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
113.08   Route maps
   
113.09   Repair of damage
   
113.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
113.11   Modification of existing fees
   
113.12   Savings clause
   
113.13   Use of funds
   
113.14   Annual report
   
113.15   Cable television operators
   
113.16   Existing rights
   
113.17   Compliance
   
113.18   Reservation of police powers
   
113.19   Severability
   
113.20   Authorized city officials
 
   
113.99    Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To regulate access to and ongoing use of public rights-of-way by
telecommunications providers for their telecommunications facilities;
   (B)   To protect the public health, safety and welfare;
   (C)   To exercise reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), the Small Wireless Communications
Facilities Deployment Act (Public Act 365 of 2018) (the "Acts") and other
applicable law; and
   (D)   To ensure that the city qualifies for distributions under the Acts by
modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with the Acts.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Acts or other applicable law.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Mount Pleasant.
      CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Mount Pleasant or its
designee. This chapter does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the City Commission.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
      METRO ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), as amended from time to time. A copy of
the METRO Act and application and permit forms currently approved by the MPSC
can be obtained on the Internet at: http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/c omm/
rightofway/rightofway.htm.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the METRO or Small
Wireless Acts and this chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the
public rights-of-way in the city for its telecommunications facilities.
      SMALL WIRELESS ACT. The Small Wireless Communications Facilities
Deployment Act (Public Act 365 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 460.1301 et seq.), as
amended from time to time. A copy of the Small Wireless Act can be obtained on
the Internet at:
http://www.legislature.mi.gov/documents/2017-2018/publicact/pdf/2018-PA-
0365.pdf
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the METRO Act, including without limitation the
following:
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3 and service provided by any
wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SERVICES.  Those terms as defined in § 102 of the METRO Act, 2002 PA 48, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include a person or an
affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile
radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of the Communications Act of
1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat.1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3 or service provided by any
wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of this chapter only, a
PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the METRO or Small Wireless
Acts, a person who owns telecommunication facilities located within a public
right-of-way;
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Acts, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Wireline telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the METRO
Act. A copy of the Act and application and permit forms currently approved by
the MPSC can be obtained on the Internet at: http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/
comm/rightofway/rightofway.htm.
      (2)   Wireless telecommunications providers shall apply for permit by
notifying the local authority of the wireless provider's intent to locate a
small cell wireless facility within the ROW, along with proof of other
necessary permits, permit applications, or easements necessary for the proposed
activity.
      (3)   A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the
application with the City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager, one copy with
the City Attorney and one copy with the Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Applications for a wireline facility shall be complete and include
all information required by the METRO Act, including without limitation a route
map showing the location of the provider's existing and proposed facilities in
accordance with § 6(5) of the METRO Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted as part of its application contains
trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information which is exempt from the
Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 -
15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. An application for a wireline facility under the
METRO Act shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee in
the amount of $500. An Application for a wireless facility under the Small
Wireless Act shall be accompanied by a $200 fee for each small cell wireless
facility alone, or a $300 fee for each small cell wireless facility requiring a
new utility pole to which it will be attached.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Manager may request an applicant
submit additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably necessary
or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in compliance
with reasonable deadlines for additional information established by the City
Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on the requirement of
additional information requested by the city, the city or the applicant shall
notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the METRO Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the METRO Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251 and authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the METRO Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the METRO Act, a
telecommunications provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in
the city as of such date that has not previously obtained authorization or a
permit Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the METRO Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division is
not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D) above.
A provider under this division shall be given up to an additional 180 days to
submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in § 5
(4) of the Act.
   (H)   A provider subject to the Small Wireless Act with existing wireless
facilities in the public right-of-way before March 12, 2019 shall be subject to
fees, rates, and terms of the agreement or ordinance in effect at the time of
their contract. After termination of an existing contract, and for all new
contracts after March 12, 2019, the provisions of § 13(3) of the Small Wireless
Act shall apply.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial of a wireline permit.
      (1)   The authority to approve or deny an application for a wireline
permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the
METRO Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under § 113.04(B) of this chapter for access to a public right-of-
way within the city.
      (2)   Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify the
MPSC when the City Manager has granted or denied a permit, including
information regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date
on which permit was granted or denied. The City Manager shall not unreasonably
deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a wireless permit. The authority to approve or
deny an application for a wireless permit is hereby delegated to the City
Manager. Pursuant to § 15 of the Small Wireless Act, the City Manager shall
approve or deny an application within 60 days from the date a
telecommunications provider files an application for a proposed collocation of
a small cell wireless facility, subject to the adjustments provided in § 15(h).
Denial of an application may only be for a reason listed in § 15(i) of the
Small Wireless Act.
   (C)   Form of METRO Act permit. If an application for a METRO Act permit is
approved, the City Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the
MPSC, with or without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with
§§ 6(1), 6(2) and 15 of the METRO Act.
   (D)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit which conditions shall be limited
to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-
way.
   (E)   Bond requirement for wireline facility. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the
METRO Act, and without limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may
require that a bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition
of the permit for a wireline facility. If a bond is required, it shall not
exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned
to its original condition during and after the telecommunications provider’s
access and use.
   (F)   Bond requirement for wireless facility. Pursuant to § 33 of the Small
Wireless Act, and without limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager
may require that a bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a
condition of the permit for a wireless facility. The purpose of the bond must
be either to remove abandoned or improperly maintained small cell wireless
facilities, to repair the right-of-way, or to recoup rates or fees that are
more than 12-months delinquent following 60-days advance notice. A cash bond is
not required unless the wireless provider has failed to obtain or maintain a
bond required by § 33 or has defaulted or failed to perform on a bond
previously given to the city. The bond requirement shall not exceed $1,000 per
small cell wireless facility.
   (G)   Fee requirement for a wireless facility. Pursuant to § 13(3) of the
Small Wireless Act, the City Manager shall require an annual fee of $20 for
each existing utility pole or wireless support structure in the public right-
of-way on which the provider has collocated a small cell wireless facility. If
the utility pole or wireless support structure was erected by or on behalf of
the wireless provider on or after March 12, 2019, the City Manager shall
require an annual fee of $125.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under Chapter 98 of this code,
as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be
charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the METRO Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a wireline
telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the METRO Act, a wireline telecommunications provider
shall within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in paper and electronic format unless and until the
MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the METRO Act.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the METRO Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
   (B)   Pursuant to § 13(10) of the Small Wireless Act, wireless providers
must repair all damage to the right-of-way directly caused by their activities
while occupying, constructing, installing, mounting, maintaining, modifying,
operating, or replacing small cell wireless facilities in the right-of-way. If
the provider fails to return the right-of-way to its functional equivalent
before the damage within 10 days after written notice, the City may make those
repairs and charge the wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the
repairs.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
113.04(D) above, a telecommunications provider with wireline telecommunications
facilities in the city's public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance
fee to the authority pursuant to § 8 of the METRO Act. There is no maintenance
fee for a wireless telecommunication facility in the city's public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the METRO Act, the
city hereby modifies to the extent necessary any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
METRO Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an
amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the METRO
Act, which shall be paid to the authority.
   (B)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the METRO Act, the
city also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the METRO Act.
   (C)   The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the METRO Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the METRO Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the METRO Act, such imposition is hereby declared
to be contrary to the city's policy and intent, and upon application by a
provider or discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been
charged in error.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the METRO Act, if § 8 of the METRO Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
113.11 above shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant § 10(4) of the METRO Act, all amounts received by the city from the
authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city from the
authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the Local Street
Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A §§
247.651 - 247.675.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the METRO Act, the City Manager shall file an annual
report with the authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the authority.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the METRO Act, the city shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the METRO Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
wireline telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued
by the city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.17 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the METRO and Small
Wireless Acts, and the provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner
as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
METRO Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 - 15.246, as provided in §
113.04(C) of this chapter;
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
113.04(F) of this chapter;
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee in accordance with §
113.04(G) of this chapter;
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
113.05(A) of this chapter;
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
113.05(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
113.05(A) of this chapter;
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
113.05(B) of this chapter;
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
113.05(C) of this chapter;
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with §
113.05(D) of this chapter;
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
113.06 of this chapter;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
113.11 of this chapter;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the authority, in accordance with §
113.14 of this chapter; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
113.15 of this chapter.
   (C)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Small Wireless Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Not prohibiting, regulating, or charging for the collocation of
small cell wireless facilities except as provided by the Small Wireless Act.
      (2)   Not entering into an exclusive arrangement with any person for use
of the right-of-way for the construction, operation, or maintenance of utility
poles or the collocation of small call wireless facilities.
      (3)   Not charging a wireless provider a rate which exceeds the
provisions in § 13(3) or an application fee which exceeds the provisions of §
15(3) of the Small Wireless Act.
      (4)   Administering and regulating the activities of wireless providers
in the right-of-way in a manner that is reasonable, nondiscriminatory, and
competitively neutral in compliance with applicable law.
      (5)   Not directly or indirectly requiring an applicant to perform
services unrelated to the collocation for which a permit is sought, such as
reserving fiber, conduit, or pole space for the City or making other in-kind
contributions to the authority.
      (6)   Within 25 days of receiving an application, notifying the applicant
in writing whether the application is complete. If an application is
incomplete, the notice shall clearly and specifically delineate all missing
documents and information.
      (7)   Within 10 days of receiving a supplemental submission, notifying
the applicant in writing whether the application is complete.
      (8)   Processing application on a nondiscriminatory basis.
      (9)   Issuing an approval or denial of an application within 60 days
after it is received, subject to the adjustments provided in § 15(h) of the
Small Wireless Act.
      (10)   Denying an application only for reasons provided in § 15(i) of the
Small Wireless Act.
      (11)   Issuing an approval or denial of a revised application within 30
days after it is received.
      (12)   Not instituting a moratorium on filing, receiving, or processing
applications or issuing permits for the collocation of small cell wireless
facilities or the installation, modification, or replacement of utility poles
on which small cell wireless facilities may be collocated.
      (13)   Not requiring a permit, any other approval, or a fee or rate for
the replacement of another wireless facility that is not larger or heavier than
what exists, routine maintenance, or installation, placement, maintenance,
operation, or replacement of a suspended micro wireless facility.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the METRO Act and § 13(5) of the Small Wireless Act,
this chapter shall not limit the city's right to review and approve a
telecommunication provider's access to and ongoing use of a public right-of-way
or limit the city's authority to ensure and protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.19 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections and clauses of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph,
section or clause of this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.20 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
chapter violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
City Code.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction. The
fine for violation of a municipal civil infraction under this chapter shall be
$500. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter
or a permit.
(Ord. 822, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 885, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 1042, passed
4-8-19)
CHAPTER 114: USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Right to require franchise
   
114.03   Definitions
Permits
   
114.15   Requirement of permits and agreements
   
114.16   Permit application procedures
   
114.17   Annual permit fees
   
114.18   Duration of permit; renewal
   
114.19   Permit terms and requirements
   
114.20   Use of public rights-of-way by permittee
   
114.21   City not liable for interference
   
114.22   Indemnification
   
114.23   Insurance
   
114.24   Assignment and transfer of control
   
114.25   Permit revocation
   
114.26   Removal of facilities
Enforcement
   
114.35   Other provisions not waived
   
114.36   Severability
   
114.37   Authorized city officials
   
114.38   Exemption
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by rights-of-way users, except for video service providers
governed by
Chapter 111 and telecommunications providers governed by
Chapter 113, to ensure and protect the public health, safety, and welfare and
to exercise reasonable control of the public rights-of-way pursuant to the city
charter, by:
   (A)   Minimizing disruption of the public rights-of-way by regulating the
access to and ongoing use of the public rights-of-way and the construction and
installation of facilities in the public rights-of-way;
   (B)   Ensuring that the city and the public are protected from liability for
use of the public rights-of-way by rights-of-way users; and
   (C)   Providing for the payment of permit fees by rights-of-way users.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
§ 114.02 RIGHT TO REQUIRE FRANCHISE.
   Rights-of-way users shall be required to obtain and maintain a permit for
access to and ongoing use of the public rights-of-way and to otherwise comply
with the terms of this chapter. Such a permit shall not constitute a franchise.
The city reserves the right to require rights-of-way users to obtain a
franchise in the future to transact local business within the city.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE or AFFILIATED. Any entity controlling, controlled by or under
common control with a permitted.
   CITY. Refers to the City of Mt. Pleasant.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Mt. Pleasant or its
designee. This chapter does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the City Commission.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the City Division of Public Works.
   METRO ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to this chapter for access to
and ongoing use of public rights-of-way by rights-of-way users for wires,
cables, poles, pipes, conduits, or other facilities designed or used to provide
services. The term "permit" does not include any other permits, licenses, or
approvals required by the city or any other governmental entities.
   PERMITTEE. A rights-of-way user which has been issued a permit pursuant to
this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway within the city.
   SERVICES or SYSTEM. The provision of water, water treatment, sanitary sewage
disposal, sanitary sewage treatment, storm drains, electric light and power,
gas, steam, heat, or any combination,  along with related appurtenances, to the
city and its inhabitants or to persons located outside the city limits.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. The same meaning as in
Chapter 113.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. The same meaning as in
Chapter 111.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
PERMITS
§ 114.15 REQUIREMENT OF PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Except for video service providers governed by
Chapter 111 and telecommunications providers governed by
Chapter 113, no person shall use the public rights-of-way to provide services
without a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the permit issued includes the right to
install, construct, maintain, or repair of a system within the public rights-
of-way. Failure to comply with the permit requirement of this section shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   A person in violation of division (A) above shall still be obligated
to comply with all requirements of this chapter applicable to a permittee and
shall pay the annual fee plus late payment charges as provided by §
114.17 for the time period in which the violator did not have a permit plus the
actual costs incurred by the city in enforcing this chapter against the person.
   (D)   Receipt of a permit under this chapter does not supersede a
permittee's obligation to obtain any and all other necessary permits or
authorizations, under any applicable city ordinance, resolution, regulation, or
policy or other applicable law.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
§ 114.16 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application. A rights-of-way user shall apply for a permit pursuant to
this chapter. Three copies of the application information shall be filed with
the Director.
   (B)   Required information. The application shall include, without
limitation, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and each person exercising
control over the applicant, and if the applicant or any person or persons
exercising control is not a natural person, each of its officers, directors,
stockholders beneficently holding more than 15% of the outstanding voting
shares, or its managers, general partners, limited partners and/or members
holding an equity interest of more than 15%. If no person controls 15% or more
of the outstanding shares, the name and address of the ten largest
shareholders, partners, limited partners, and/or members as the case shall be
provided.
      (2)   Copies of the most recent financial statements of the applicant.
      (3)   A general description of the applicant's existing and proposed
system and services in the city and the type of existing and proposed
facilities to be placed in the public rights-of-way; and a statement whether
such systems and/or facilities are owned by the applicant and that such use
complies with the terms of any agreement existing between the owners of such
facilities and applicant setting forth the nature of the applicant's interest
therein and the rights of the applicant to use the facilities.
      (4)   A map setting forth the location of the facilities in the public
rights-of-way. The map shall completely and accurately identify the location
and dimensions of above ground and underground facilities in sufficient detail
to the satisfaction of the City Manager or his/her designee. Prior to the
issuance of a right-of-way construction permit, specific location of the
facilities in the public rights-of-way must be identified.
   (C)   Application fee. The application will be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee in an amount established by resolution of the City
Commission. The non-refundable application fee shall be designed to reimburse
the city for the costs of reviewing an application for a permit and issuance of
a permit in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
   (D)   Administrative completeness. An application shall not be deemed to be
filed until the application is determined by the Director to be
administratively complete. If the Director determines that the application is
not administratively complete, the Director shall so advise the applicant in
writing and shall identify the items which must be furnished by the applicant
for an administratively complete application.
   (E)   Additional information. The Director may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the Director deems reasonably
necessary or relevant to review the application. The applicant shall comply
with all such requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such
additional information established by the Director.
   (F)   Misleading statements. A person who makes a statement which was untrue
when made or omits a material fact for the purpose of inducing the city to
issue a permit hereunder, which permit would not have been issued but for the
misstatement of fact or omission of fact, shall be in violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to all remedies for violation of this chapter including,
without limitation, denial of the requested action, permit revocation, civil
fines and costs.
   (G)   Conditions. The Director may impose conditions on the granting of a
permit to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Without limitation,
these conditions may include the posting of a bond by the rights-of-way user in
an amount which shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public
rights-of-way are returned to their original condition during and after the
rights-of-way user's access and use. The Director may require a rights-of-way
user to maintain a letter of credit, cash bond, or other financial guarantee
with a local financial institution, in an amount proportionate to the size of
such rights-of-way users system (including approved expansions, if any), but
not in excess of the reasonable cost to ensure that the public rights-of-way
are returned to their original condition, which can be drawn upon by the city
due to the rights-of-way users' failure to cure, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the Director or his or her designee, any violation of this chapter, or
breach or default under a permit, after 30 days notice.
   (H)   Appeal. The Director shall not unreasonably deny any request for a
permit. A denial of any request for a permit may be appealed to the City
Manager who shall make the final decision.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
§ 114.17 ANNUAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Establishment of annual fees; payment. In addition to the non-
refundable application fee set forth in §
114.16(C) and any other fees for other permits or authorizations required by
the city, a permittee shall pay the city an annual fee in an amount established
by resolution of the City Commission. The annual fee may be modified from time
to time by resolution of the City Commission. The annual fee shall be payable
annually in December of each year.
   (B)   Prorating; late charges. When a permit is issued on any day other than
January 1, the annual fee shall be prorated for the balance of the calendar
year. A person who violates this chapter by failing to obtain a permit shall
pay the annual fee plus late payment charges, as required by this section, for
the time period in which the violator did not have a permit plus the actual
costs of the city in enforcing this chapter against the person.
   (C)   Records. All records (including those of affiliates) reasonably
necessary to verify the accuracy of annual fees paid by the permittee under §
114.17(A) shall be made available by a permittee at a location within the city
or within 20 miles of the city's boundaries. The city, by itself or in
combination with other municipalities, reserves the right to audit any
permitted (or any affiliate of a permittee) to verify the accuracy of annual
fees paid or to be paid to the city. Any additional amount due the city shall
be paid within 30 days of submission of an invoice. If the additional amount
due exceeds 2% of the total annual fee which the audit determines should have
been paid for a calendar year, the permitted shall pay the city's costs in
connection with the audit within 30 days of submission of an invoice.
   (D)   Other payments. The non-refundable application fees and the annual
fees established pursuant of this chapter shall be in addition to any tax,
charge, fee, or payment due, or to become due, to the city by a permittee under
any city ordinance or the laws of the state.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.18 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   A permit shall remain in effect until January 1 following the tenth year
anniversary from the date of the issuance of the permit (unless the permit
expires pursuant to §
114.19(J) or the permit is earlier revoked pursuant to §
114.24). Applications for renewal of permits shall be filed in the same manner
as original applications in §
114.17 and shall be filed with the city not less than 120 days before the
expiration of the permit. The city expressly reserves all rights to approve,
approve with conditions, or deny applications for permit renewals pursuant to
this chapter and to impose additional conditions on renewed permits.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.19 PERMIT TERMS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Non-exclusive; additional permits. A permit shall be non-exclusive.
The city expressly reserves the right to approve, at any time, additional
permits for access to and ongoing use of the public rights-of-way by rights-of-
way users and to enter into agreements and grant franchises for such access and
use. The issuance of additional permits, entry into agreements, or grant of
franchises shall not be deemed to amend, modify, revoke, or terminate the terms
and conditions of any permits previously issued to rights-of-way users.
   (B)   Expansion requests. A permit approved by the city shall authorize,
access to and ongoing use of the public rights-of-way described in the permit,
subject to compliance with the conditions of the permit, the requirements of
this chapter, and any other applicable requirements of a city ordinance or
applicable state and federal law. The permittee shall not use any public
rights-of-way not expressly authorized by the permit. Any use of the public
rights-of-way (including any installation, construction, maintenance, or repair
of a system within the public rights-of-way) to provide services shall be
performed only as authorized by the permit. A permittee may, however, expand or
modify its system to public rights-of-ways not described in its permit by
obtaining approval of an amended permit from the city. Such approval may be
granted in writing by the Director in response to a written request from the
permittee for expansion or modification to specific portions of named public
rights-of-way. The City Commission may establish by resolution a non-refundable
application fee for such a request. After taking into consideration the public
health, safety and welfare, the Director may grant, grant with conditions, or
deny such request. The Director shall not unreasonably deny any request. A
denial of any request may be appealed to the City Manager who shall make the
final decision. Any expansion or modification into additional public rights-of-
way shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the original permit and
this chapter including, without limitation, the application of the annual fee
to the expanded or modified public rights-of-way used by the permittee.
   (C)   Construction permit. A permittee shall not commence construction,
excavation, street opening, tree trimming, or maintenance of, upon over, across
or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining all
necessary construction, excavation, street opening, tree trimming, or other
applicable permits as required under applicable city ordinances, for
construction, excavation, street opening, tree trimming, or maintenance within
the public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Lease or use of facilities; overlashing. A permittee shall not lease,
sublease, license or otherwise allow the use of wires, conduit, poles or other
facilities in the public rights-of-way by a person without securing from the
person a representation that the person has secured all necessary governmental
approvals required to occupy space in the public right-of-way. A permittee
shall not allow the property of a third party system wires or any other
facilities to be overlashed, affixed or attached to any portion of a
permittee's system located in the public right-of-way; or allow other actions
with a similar result without securing from the person a representation that
all governmental approvals have been secured in order to occupy space in the
public right-of-way.
   (E)   "As built" maps. Without expense to the city, a permittee shall
provide the city with "as-built" maps, records and plans showing its system or
portions thereof within the city, including those of affiliates used by the
permittee, and maps and descriptive information of facilities of other persons
used by the permittee. The "as built" shall be in such format as required by
the city. (Digital GIS maps are required if available.) The Director may waive
part or all of this requirement if satisfactory records of the location of the
system were previously provided to the city. The "as built" maps, records and
plans shall be provided within 30 days of the completion of the system and any
extensions, additions, or modifications to the system. In addition to the
foregoing, a permittee, without expense to the city, shall, upon 48 hours
notice, give the city access to all "as-built" maps, records, plans and
specifications showing its system or portions thereof within the city. Upon
request by the city, a permittee shall inform the city as soon as possible (but
no more than one business day after the request) of any changes from previously
supplied maps, records, or plans and shall mark up maps provided by the city so
as to show the location of its system.
   (F)   Inducement. By acceptance of a permit, a permittee acknowledges that
it has not been induced to obtain the permit by any understanding or promise or
other statement, whether verbal or written, by or on behalf of the city or by
any third person concerning any term or condition of a permit not expressed in
this chapter.
   (G)   Acceptance of terms and conditions. Permittee acknowledges by the
acceptance of a permit that it has carefully read its terms and conditions and
does accept all of such terms and conditions.
   (H)   No priority. A permit does not establish any priority of use of the
public rights-of-way by a permittee over any present or future permittees or
parties having agreements with the city or franchises for such use. In the
event of any dispute as to the priority of use of the public rights-of-way, the
first priority shall be to the public generally, the second priority to the
city, the third priority to the state and its political subdivisions in the
performance of their various functions, and thereafter as between permittees,
other permit holders, parties having agreements with the city, and franchisees,
as determined by the city in the exercise of its powers, including the police
power and other powers reserved to and conferred on it by the state.
   (I)   Future use by city. A permittee acknowl- edges, by accepting a permit,
that it obtains no rights to or further use of the public rights-of-way other
than those expressly granted herein. Each permittee acknowledges and accepts as
its own risk that the city may make use in the future of the public rights-of-
way which a permittee is using or in which a permittee's system is located in a
manner inconsistent with the permittee's use of such public rights-of-way and
that in such event the permittee will be required to relocate their facilities
and not be entitled to compensation from the city.
   (J)   Expiration of permit. Unless the city grants an extension, a permit
shall expire one year from the date of issuance unless prior thereto the
permittee either:
      (1)   Commences construction, installation, or operation of its system
within the public rights-of-way authorized by the permit and diligently pursues
completion of construction or installation; or
      (2)   Commences use of the public rights-of-way to provide services as
authorized by the permit.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.20 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY BY PERMITTEE.
   (A)   No burden on public rights-of-way. A permittee and its contractors and
subcontractors and a permittee's system shall not unduly burden or interfere
with the present or future use of any of the public rights-of-way within the
city. A permittee shall erect and maintain its system so as to cause minimum
interference with the use of the public rights-of-way and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners. The permittee's cables and wires
shall be suspended or buried so as to not endanger or injure persons or
property in the public rights-of-way. If the city in its reasonable judgment
determines that any portion of the system located in the public right-of-way
constitutes an undue burden or interference, the permittee at its sole cost and
expense shall modify that portion of the system or take such other actions as
the city may determine are in the public interest to remove or alleviate the
burden, and the permittee shall do so within the time period established by the
city.
   (B)   Restoration of property. A permittee and its contractors and
subcontractors shall immediately restore, at the permittee's sole cost and
expense and in a manner approved by the city, any portion of the public rights-
of-way that is in any way disturbed, damaged, or injured by the construction,
operation, maintenance or removal of the system to as good or better condition
than that which existed prior to the disturbance. In the event that the
permittee, its contractors or subcontractors fail to do so within the time
specified by the city, the city shall be entitled to complete the work and the
permittee shall reimburse the city for the costs of doing so or the city may
draw upon the letter of credit or bond posted by the permittee, at the city's
sole option.
   (C)   Easements. Upon the city's request, a rights-of-way user shall submit
evidence of any easement or authorization to use private property for
construction or operation of its services or system. Any easements over or
under private property necessary for the construction or operation of a system
shall be arranged for and obtained by the permittee. Any use or intrusion on
private property without an easement or other instrument evidencing permission
of the property owner shall constitute a trespass by the permittee and a
violation of this chapter. Any easements over or under property owned by the
city other than the public rights-of-way shall be separately negotiated with
the city.
   (D)   Tree trimming. Subject to all applicable city ordinances, if any,
permittee may trim trees upon and overhanging the public rights-of-way so as to
prevent the branches of such trees from coming into contact with its system.
The permittee shall minimize the trimming of trees to trimming only those trees
that are essential to maintain the integrity of its system. No trimming shall
be done in the public rights-of-way without previously informing the city. The
permittee will use reasonable efforts to notify all affected property owners in
advance of trimming trees on or adjacent to their properties.
   (E)   Pavement cut coordination/additional fees.
      (1)   A permittee shall coordinate all construction work in the public
rights-of-way with the city's program for street construction, rebuilding,
resurfacing and repair (collectively, "street resurfacing"). A permittee shall
meet with the official of the city primarily responsible for the public rights-
of-way at least twice per year to this end.
      (2)   The goals of such coordination shall be to require a permittee to
conduct all work in the public rights-of-way in conjunction with or immediately
prior to any street resurfacing planned by the city, and to prevent the public
rights-of-way from being disturbed by a permittee for a period of years after
such street resurfacing.
      (3)   In addition to any other fees or payments required by this chapter,
a permittee shall pay to the city the sum set from time to time by City
Commission resolution or ordinance for each foot cut into or excavation of any
public rights-of-way, or portion thereof, which was subject to street
resurfacing within 18 months prior to such cut or excavation. This fee is in
addition to and not in lieu of the obligation to restore the public rights-of-
way and is in addition to all other fees required by this chapter.
   (F)   Marking. A permittee shall mark any installations of its system which
occur after the effective date of this chapter as follows:
      (1)   Aerial portions of its system shall be marked with a marker on its
lines on alternate poles which shall state the permittee's name and provide a
toll-free number to call for assistance.
      (2)   Direct buried underground portions of its system shall have:
         (a)   A conducting wire placed in the ground at least several inches
above the permittee's facility (if such facility is non-conductive);
         (b)   At least several inches above that a continuous colored tape
with the permittee's name and a toll-free phone number and a statement to the
effect that an underground system is buried beneath; and
         (c)   Stakes or other appropriate above-ground markers with the
permittee's name and a toll-free number indicating what system is buried below.
      (3)   Portions of its system located in pipe or conduit, including
facilities of others used by a permittee, shall be marked at each manhole with
the permittee's name and toll-free telephone number to call for assistance.
   (G)   Compliance with laws. A permittee shall comply with all laws,
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations regarding the installation,
construction, ownership and use of its system, whether federal, state or local,
now in force or which hereafter may be promulgated (including, without
limitation, any ordinance requiring the installation of a reasonable amount of
additional conduit when a permittee installs underground conduit for its
system). Before any installation is commenced, the permittee shall secure all
necessary permits, licenses and approvals from all appropriate departments,
agencies, boards or commissions of the city or other governmental entity as may
be required by law, including, without limitation, all utility line permits and
highway permits. A permittee shall comply in all respects with applicable codes
and industry standards, including but not limited to the National Electrical
Safety Code (latest edition) and the National Electric Code (latest edition). A
permittee shall comply with all zoning and land use ordinances and historic
preservation ordinances as may exist or may hereafter be amended.
   (H)   Street vacation. If the city vacates or consents to the vacation of
public rights-of-way within its jurisdiction, and such vacation necessitates
the removal and relocation of a permittee's facilities in the vacated right-of-
way, the permittee shall, as a condition of the permit, consent to the vacation
and move its facilities at its sole cost and expense when ordered to so do by
the city or a court of competent jurisdiction. The permittee shall relocate its
facilities to such alternate route as the city, acting reasonably and in good
faith, shall designate.
   (I)   Relocation. A permittee may request to relocate its facilities above,
below or within a public right-of-way. After taking into consideration the
public health, safety and welfare, the Director may grant, grant with
conditions, or deny such request. The Director shall not unreasonably deny any
request for a permit. A denial of any request may be appealed to the City
Manager, who shall make the final decision. If the city requests a permittee to
relocate, protect, support, disconnect, place underground or remove its
facilities because of street or utility work, or other public projects, the
permittee shall relocate, protect, support, disconnect, place underground or
remove its facilities, at its sole cost and expense, to such alternate route as
the city, acting reasonable and in good faith, shall designate. The work shall
be completed within the time period designated by the city.
   (J)   Public emergency. The city shall have the right to sever, disrupt,
dig-up or otherwise destroy facilities of a permittee, without any prior
notice, if such action is deemed necessary by the Director, Police Chief, or
Fire Chief or their designees because of a public emergency. Public emergency
shall be any condition which, in the opinion of any of the officials named,
poses an immediate threat to life, health, or property caused by any natural or
man-made disaster, including, but not limited to, storms, floods, fire,
accidents, explosions, major water main breaks, hazardous material spills, and
so forth. The permittee shall be responsible for repair at its sole cost and
expense of any of its facilities damaged pursuant to any such action by the
city.
   (K)   “Miss Dig.” If eligible to join, a permittee shall subscribe to and be
a member of "Miss Dig," the association of utilities formed pursuant to Act 53
of the Public Acts of 1974, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 460.701 et seq., and shall
conduct its business in conformance with the statutory provisions and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (L)   Use of existing facilities; undergrounding. A permittee shall utilize
existing poles, conduits, pipelines and other facilities wherever practicable,
and shall not construct or install any new, different, or additional facilities
unless expressly authorized by the permit. Where utility wiring is located
underground, either at the time of initial construction or subsequent thereto,
a permittee's system shall also be located underground unless otherwise
expressly authorized by the permit. All undergrounding shall be at the sole
cost and expense of the permittee.
   (M)   Underground relocation. If a permittee has its facilities on poles of
a municipal electric utility, or any other public utility company and such
utility relocates its facilities underground, the permittee shall relocate its
facilities underground in the same location at permittee's sole cost and
expense.
   (N)   Pole/conduit/trench license agreement; notification. If a permittee
forfeits or otherwise loses its rights under a pole/conduit/trench license
agreement with any entity, then permittee shall notify the City Manager in
writing within 30 days.
   (O)   Identification. All personnel of a permittee and its contractors or
subcontractors who have as part of their normal duties contact with the general
public shall wear on their clothing a clearly visible identification card
bearing their name and photograph. A permittee shall account for all
identification cards at all times. Every service vehicle of a permittee and its
contractors or subcontractors shall be clearly identified as such to the public
with the permittee's name.
   (P)   Utility cabinets. Utility cabinets shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Proposed utility cabinets must not:
         (a)   Create an obstacle in the public rights-of-way;
         (b)   Block a driver's view of the street or sidewalk;
         (c)   Create an attractive nuisance to children;
         (d)   Interfere with essential services;
         (e)   Detract from the streetscape;
         (f)   Have a negative impact upon property owners' rights to
attractive, well-maintained public spaces and rights-of-way.
   (2)   Placement of a utility cabinet shall not be:
      (a)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (b)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk;
      (c)   Within 30 feet of an approach to a stop sign or traffic control
signal located at the side of the road or within the lawn extension;
         (d)   In a place or manner that blocks egress from an emergency exit;
         (e)   Within ten feet of the intersection of a sidewalk or street and
the edge of a driveway;
         (f)   Within 75 feet of the center of the intersection of two streets;
         (g)   Within ten feet of a tree;
         (h)   Within ten feet of a mailbox owned by the United States Postal
Service;
         (i)   Within 30 feet of the approach to a bus stop;
         (j)    Within ten feet of an underground utility service (if the
utility is ground-mounted);
         (k)   Within 850 feet of another utility cabinet;
         (l)   In a public right-of-way adjacent to the front lot line of a
property.
      (3)   Utility cabinet specifications:
         (a)   There shall be only one cabinet per location; however, co-
location in the same cabinet may be permitted if approved by the Director;
         (b)   Pole-mounted utility cabinets shall not exceed 30 inches in
width, 12 inches in depth, and 72 inches in height, and shall be mounted a
minimum of 12 inches above grade;
         (c)   Ground-mounted utility cabinets shall have a maximum height of
five feet and shall not exceed 80 cubic feet in volume, not including a meter
box. The meter box shall not exceed 22 inches in width, 9 inches in depth and
42 inches in height. Ground-mounted utility cabinets with or without meter
boxes shall be mounted on a concrete pad that is not to exceed 100 square feet;
         (d)   Utility cabinets shall be dark brown or green and not display
any advertising;
         (e)   Utility cabinets in the public rights-of-way shall be mounted
with their width parallel to the street;
         (f)   Ground-mounted utility cabinets in public parks shall be
landscaped with plant material sufficient to screen the cabinet from view. The
cabinet owner shall maintain the landscape materials and replacement of them if
damaged at the owner's cost;
         (g)   All utility cabinets shall clearly display on the front of the
cabinet an identifying number as well as the owner's name, address, and
emergency phone number;
         (h)   Utility cabinets shall be maintained in good repair, and in a
structurally sound and sanitary condition. The existence of graffiti, stickers
or other similar defacement of a utility cabinet shall constitute an unsanitary
condition. Failure of a cabinet owner to comply with this division shall
authorize the city to cause the proper restoration to be made at the cabinet
owner's expense. To ensure compliance with this division, utility cabinets
shall be inspected by the cabinet owner on at least a bi-annual basis.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
§ 114.21 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   The city, and its officers, agents, elected or appointed officials,
employees, departments, boards, and commissions, shall not be liable to a
permittee or to its affiliates or customers for any interference with or
disruption in the operation of a permittee's system, or for any damages arising
out of a permittee's use of the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to recover all assessable costs and
expenses where public safety equipment, personnel or services are provided to a
permittee in response to a request or report of the need for such equipment,
personnel or services.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03; Am. Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
§ 114.22 INDEMNIFICATION.
   As a condition of a permit, a permittee shall defend, indemnify, protect,
and hold harmless the city its officers, agents, employees, elected and
appointed officials, departments, boards, and commissions from any and all
claims, losses, liabilities, causes of action, demands, judgments, decrees,
proceedings, and expenses of any nature (including, without limitation,
attorney's fees) arising out of resulting from the acts or omissions of the
permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, successors, or
assigns, but only to the extent of the fault of the permittee, its officers,
agents, employees, contractors, successors, or assigns.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.23 INSURANCE.
   (A)   A permittee shall obtain and maintain in full, force and effect for
the duration of a permit the following insurance covering all insurable risks
associated with its ownership or use of its system:
      (1)   A comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including
completed operations liability, independent contractors liability, contractual
liability coverage and coverage for property damage from perils of explosion,
collapse or damage to underground utilities, commonly known as XCU coverage, in
an amount not less than $5,000,000.
      (2)   An automobile liability insurance policy covering any vehicles used
in connection with its activities under its permit in an amount not less than
$1,000,000.
      (3)   Workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance with
statutory limits.
   (B)   The city shall be named as an additional insured in all applicable
policies. All insurance policies shall provide that they shall not be canceled
or modified unless 30 days prior written notice is given to the city. A
permittee shall provide the city with a certificate of insurance evidencing
such coverage as a condition of issuance of the permit and shall maintain on
file with the city a current certificate. All insurance shall be issued by
insurance carriers licensed to do business by the state or by surplus line
carriers on the Michigan Insurance Bureau approved list of companies qualified
to do business in Michigan. All insurance and surplus line carriers shall be
rated A+ or better by A.M. Best Company or another rating agency approved by
the city.
   (C)   If the insurance policies required by this section are written with
deductibles in excess of $50,000, the deductibles shall be approved in advance
by the city. A permittee agrees to indemnify and save harmless the city from
and against the payment of any deductible and from the payment of any premium
on any insurance policy required to be furnished by this chapter.
   (D)   The permittee shall require that its contractors and subcontractors
working in public rights-of-way carry in full force and effect workers'
compensation and employer liability, comprehensive general liability and
automobile liability insurance coverages of the types which permittee is
required to obtain under §
114.23(A) with appropriate limits of coverage.
   (E)   The permittee's insurance coverage shall be primary insurance with
respect to the city, its officers, agents, employees, elected and appointed
officials, department, boards, and commissions. Any insurance or self insurance
maintained by any of them shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance and
shall not contribute to it.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.24 ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER OF CONTROL.
   A permittee shall not assign or transfer a permit or any of its rights under
a permit, in whole or in part, voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of
law, including by merger or consolidation or by other means, without the prior
written consent of the city, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The
permittee shall reimburse the city for reasonable, actual costs, including
attorneys fees, incurred in the review of a request by the permittee for
consent to an assignment or transfer of the permit. Notwithstanding anything in
this section to the contrary, the permittee may grant a security interest in
its rights under a permit in favor of a third party without first obtaining the
consent of the city. If a permit or any rights thereunder is assigned or
transferred in whole or in part with the approval of the city, the terms and
conditions of the permit and of this chapter shall be binding upon the
successors and assigns of the permittee. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, if the transfer of a permit is to an affiliate owned or controlled by
the permittee, then no such approval shall be required, but the permittee shall
provide written notice prior to any of such transfer to the city; provided
however, no such transfer will relieve the permittee of its obligation of
compliance with this chapter and permit.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.25 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   In addition to all other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to the
city, the city reserves as an additional separate and distinct remedy the right
to revoke a permit and all rights and privileges of a permittee in any of the
following events or for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   A permittee fails after 30 days prior written notice to comply with
any of the provisions of the permit or this chapter (except §
114.16(F)); or
   (B)   A permittee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts,
or is adjudged bankrupt; or
   (C)   All or part of a permittee's facilities are sold under an instrument
to secure a debt and are not redeemed by the permittee within 90 days from such
sale; or
   (D)   A permittee violates §
114.16(F) of this chapter or otherwise attempts to or does practice any fraud
or deceit in its conduct or relations with the city; or
   (E)   The city condemns all of the property of a permittee within the city
by the lawful exercise of eminent domain; or
   (F)   A permittee abandons its system or fails to seek renewal of its
permit; or
   (G)   A permittee fails to pay any fines due for violations of this chapter;
or
   (H)   A permittee fails to pay any civil fines imposed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such as pursuant to an ordinance providing for civil
infractions. No revocation, except for reason of condemnation, shall be
effective unless the City Commission shall have adopted a resolution setting
forth the reason for the revocation and the effective date, which resolution
shall not be adopted without 30 days prior notice to the permittee and a
hearing at which the permittee receives rudimentary due process.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.26 REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Removal; underground. Upon revocation of a permit, or upon expiration
of a permit if the permit is not renewed, the permittee may remove any
underground facilities from the public rights-of-way which has been installed
in such a manner that it can be removed without trenching or other opening of
the streets along the extension of the facility to be removed. Except as
otherwise provided, the permittee shall not remove any underground cable, pipe,
conduit, or other facility which requires trenching or other opening of the
public rights-of-way. The permittee shall remove, at its sole cost and expense,
any underground cable, pipe, conduit, or other facility which is ordered to be
removed by the city based upon a determination, in the sole discretion of the
city, that removal is required in order to eliminate or prevent a hazardous
condition or promote future utilization of the streets for public purposes. Any
order by the city to remove cable, pipe, conduit, or other facility shall be
mailed to the permittee not later than 30 calendar days following the date of
expiration or termination of the permit of its intention to remove facilities
and a schedule for removal by location. The schedule and timing of removal
shall be subject to approval and regulation by the city. Removal shall be
completed not later than 12 months following the date of revocation or
expiration of the permit. Underground facilities in the public rights-of-way,
which are not removed within such time period, shall be deemed abandoned and,
at the option of the city, title shall be vested in the city.
   (B)   Removal; above ground. Upon revocation of a permit, or upon expiration
of a permit if the permit is not renewed, a permittee, at its sole cost and
expense, shall, unless relieved of the obligation by the city, remove from the
public rights-of-way all above ground elements of its system, including but not
limited to poles, pedestal mounted terminal boxes, and lines attached to or
suspended from poles.
   (C)   Permits; restoration; completion. A permittee shall apply for and
obtain such encroachment permits, licenses, authorizations or other approvals
and pay such fees and deposit such security as required by applicable law or
ordinances of the city, shall conduct and complete the work of removal in
compliance with all such applicable law or ordinances, and shall restore the
public rights-of-way to the same condition they were in before the work of
removal commenced.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 114.35 OTHER PROVISIONS NOT WAIVED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a waiver of any
ordinances, Charter provisions, codes or regulations of the city.
   (B)   The city fully reserves its police powers to ensure and protect the
public health, safety, and welfare and fully reserves its authority and power
to amend this chapter at any time. The terms and conditions of any permit shall
be subject to compliance with any future amendments of this chapter. The city
fully reserves its right to exercise the reasonable control of the public
rights-of-way pursuant to Article VII, § 29 of the 1963 Michigan Constitution.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter or any permit shall limit any right the city
may have to acquire by eminent domain any property of a rights-of-way user.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter or any permit shall limit the authority of the
city to impose a tax, fee, or other assessment of any kind on any person. A
rights-of-way user shall pay all fees necessary to obtain all federal, state,
and local licenses, permits, and authorizations required for the construction,
installation, maintenance, or operation of its system within the public rights-
of-way.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.36 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any provision of this chapter or any related ordinances is held by
any court of any federal, state or county agency of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid as conflicting with any federal, state, or county law, rule or
regulation, said provision shall be considered a separate, distinct and
independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect thevalidity
and enforceability of the rest of the whole. In the event that such law, rule
or regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise
changes, so that the provisions which had been held invalid or modified is no
longer in conflict with the laws, rules and regulations then in effect, said
provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect and shall be binding
on the parties, provided that the city shall give the permittee 30 days written
notice of such change before requiring compliance with said provision.
   (B)   Any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding,
a permittee shall at all times comply with all laws and regulations of the
federal, state, county and city governments and all administrative agencies
thereof; provided, however, that if any law or regulation shall prohibit a
permittee expressly from performing a service required hereunder, such that it
would be in conflict with the terms of this chapter or the provisions of the
city's Code of Ordinances, then as soon as such a conflict becomes known to the
permittee, the permittee shall notify the city in writing of what it believes
the conflict to consist of and in particular what law or regulation it believes
to be conflict with this chapter or the city's Code of Ordinances, and the
permittee shall be thereby excused from performance hereunder, provided that it
acts in good faith reliance thereon, pending an authoritative resolution of
such conflict.
   (C)   If the city determines that a material provision of this chapter or
any related ordinances is affected by such action of a court or of the federal,
state or county government, the city shall have the right to modify any of the
provisions herein or in such related ordinances to such reasonable extent as
may be necessary to carry out the full intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.37 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his/her designee is hereby designated as the authorized
city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations (directing alleged
violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction violation notices
(directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal ordinance violations
bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
§ 114.38 EXEMPTION.
   Public water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer utilities provided by the City
of Mount Pleasant shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 960, passed 11-8-10)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than
$500 and not more than $5,000, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
follows:
   (A)   First repeat offense not less than $1,000 and not more than $10,000.
   (B)   Second and subsequent repeat offense not less than $2,000 and not more
than $20,000.
(Ord. 895, passed 10-13-03)
CHAPTER 115: RECREATIONAL MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Authorized establishments
   
115.03   Application for authorization
   
115.04   Relocation of establishments, transfers of licenses, and expansion of
grow operations
   
115.05   General regulations
   
115.06   Temporary marihuana events
   
115.07   Violations
   
115.08   Policy review in 2023
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases have the meanings ascribed to them when used
in this chapter:
   CO-LOCATION or CO-LOCATED. the siting and operation of a combination of
multiple establishments or establishment types at a single location.
   DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial space that is licensed by
LARA and authorized to permit adults 21 years of age and older to consume
marihuana products at the location indicated on the state license.
   EDIBLE MARIHUANA PRODUCT. Any marihuana-infused product containing marihuana
that is intended for human consumption in a manner other than smoke inhalation.
   EMERGENCY RULES. The emergency rules for adult-use marihuana establishments
issued by LARA on or about July 3, 2019.
   EXCESS MARIHUANA GROWER. A license issued by LARA to a person holding five
class C marihuana grower licenses and licensed to cultivate marihuana and sell
or otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   LARA. The Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and any successor
department or agency within the department, including the Marihuana Regulatory
Agency.
   LICENSEE. A person holding a state operating license for a marihuana
establishment.
   MARIHUANA. All parts of the plant genus cannabis, growing or not; the seeds
of that plant; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant
or its seeds or resin. MARIHUANA does not include the mature stalks of the
plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the
plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks, except the resin extracted from those stalks,
fiber, oil, or cake, or any sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. MARIHUANA does not include industrial hemp.
   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marihuana grower, marihuana safety compliance
establishment, marihuana processor, marihuana microbusiness, marihuana
retailer, marihuana secure transporter, or any other type of marihuana-related
business licensed by LARA.
   MARIHUANA EVENT ORGANIZER. A person licensed to apply for a temporary
marihuana event license under the Emergency Rules.
   MARIHUANA GROWER. A person licensed by LARA to cultivate marihuana and sell
or otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. A topical formulation, tincture, beverage, edible
substance, or similar product containing marihuana and other ingredients and
that is intended for human consumption.
   MARIHUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed by LARA to cultivate not more
than 150 marihuana plants; process and package marihuana; and sell or otherwise
transfer marihuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or to a
marihuana safety compliance establishment, but not to other marihuana
establishments.
   MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed by LARA to obtain marihuana from
marihuana establishments; process and package marihuana; and sell or otherwise
transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA RETAILER. A person licensed by LARA to obtain marihuana from
marihuana establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to
marihuana establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE ESTABLISHMENT. A person licensed by LARA to test
marihuana, including certification for potency and the presence of
contaminants.
   MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed by LARA to obtain marihuana
from marihuana establishments in order to transport marihuana to marihuana
establishments.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008, as
amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26424 et seq.
   MMMFLA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, 2016 PA
281, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27102 et seq.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, Initiated Law
1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq.
   MRTMA RULES. Rules, including emergency rules, promulgated by LARA to
implement the MRTMA.
   PREQUALIFICATION STEP or PREQUALIFIED. The portion of the application for a
state operating license pertaining to the applicant's financial background and
the criminal history of the applicant and other associated persons, as provided
by Emergency Rule 6.
   STACKED GROWER LICENSE. More than one state operating license issued to a
single licensee to operate as a grower of class C-2,000 marihuana plants as
specified in each license at an establishment.
   STATE OPERATING LICENSE or, unless the context requires a different meaning,
LICENSE. A license that is issued by LARA under the MRTMA that allows the
licensee to operate a marihuana establishment.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19)
§ 115.02 AUTHORIZED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Authorization and special use permit required. No person shall operate
a marihuana establishment in the city without an authorization issued by the
city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and a special use permit
pursuant to this chapter and the city zoning ordinance. No person shall operate
a temporary marihuana event in this city without an authorization issued by the
city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Establishments eligible for authorization. The following marihuana
establishments may be authorized to operate in the city, subject to this
chapter:
      (1)   Growers operating under Class A licenses (unlimited);
      (2)   Growers operating under Class B licenses (unlimited);
      (3)   Growers operating under Class C licenses (unlimited);
      (4)   Retailers (unlimited);
      (5)   Processors (unlimited);
      (6)   Secure transporters (unlimited);
      (7)   Safety compliance establishments (unlimited);
      (8)   Microbusinesses (unlimited);
      (9)   Zero designated consumption establishments;
      (10)   Zero excess marihuana growers.
   (C)   Co-location and stacked licenses. Co-location and stacked grower
licenses are permitted in the city.
   (D)   Final authorization from city required. The authorization process
described in §
115.03 determines the locations in the city at which establishments may
operate. A proposed establishment is not eligible to operate until the clerk
grants final authorization pursuant to section §
115.03(F) and until the applicant receives a special use permit under the city
zoning ordinance and all required approvals and licenses from LARA.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 1080, passed 5-9-22)
§ 115.03 APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Timing of submission. Beginning on January 6, 2020, a person may apply
for authorization to operate an establishment within the city by complying with
the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Required application materials. An application is not considered
complete until all of the following are received by the City Clerk:
      (1)   A nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Commission.
      (2)   An advance of the annual administrative fee established in §
115.05(D).
      (3)   A photocopy of a valid, unexpired driver' s license or state issued
identification card for all owners, directors, and officers of the proposed
establishment.
      (4)   A signed application (available in the clerk's office), which must
include all of the following information and documents:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's name; date of
birth; Social Security number; physical address, including residential and any
business address; copy of government-issued photo identification; email
address; one or more phone numbers, including emergency contact information;
         (b)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names; dates of
birth; physical addresses, including residential and any business address; copy
of government-issued photo identifications; email address; and one or more
phone numbers of each stakeholder of the applicant, including designation of
the highest ranking representative as an emergency contact person; contact
information for the emergency contact person; articles of incorporation or
organization; assumed name registration; Internal Revenue Service EIN
confirmation letter; copy of the operating agreement of the applicant, if a
limited liability company; copy of the partnership agreement, if a partnership;
names and addresses of the beneficiaries, if a trust, or a copy of the bylaws
or shareholder agreement, if a corporation;
         (c)   The name, address, tax identification number, and current zoning
designations of the proposed marihuana establishment;
         (d)   The name and address of the current property owner of record;
         (e)   If the current property owner is different than the applicant
(e.g. where the applicant has a lease, option, land contract, or other future
interest in the property), the property owner's signature is required in
addition to the applicant's.
            1.   An applicant may submit applications for multiple properties.
            2.   However, only one application shall be submitted per property,
unless the applications are for proposed co-located establishments.
         (f)   The proposed establishment type;
         (g)   If the proposed establishment type involves stacked growing
licenses, the number of licenses sought;
         (h)   A complete list of all marihuana permits and licenses held by
the applicant;
         (i)   Written consent for the city to inspect the establishment at any
time during normal business hours to ensure compliance with applicable laws and
regulations;
         (j)   A location area map of the marihuana establishment and
surrounding area that identifies the relative locations and the distances
(closest property line to the subject marihuana establishment's building) to
the closest real property comprising a public or private elementary, vocational
or secondary school;
         (k)   A copy of all documents submitted by the applicant to LARA in
connection with the application for a state operating license under the MRTMA
(including documents submitted for prequalification);
         (l)   A copy of all documents submitted by the applicant to LARA in
connection with the application for a state operating license under the MMFLA,
if applicable;
         (m)   A copy of all documents issued by LARA indicating that the
applicant has been prequalified for a state operating license under the MRTMA;
         (n)   Any other information reasonably requested by the City relevant
to the processing or consideration of the application.
   (C)   Initial receipt period. For any establishment type subject to
numerical limitations under §
115.02, the initial receipt period shall commence on January 6, 2020, and shall
end at the close of business on Friday, February 28, 2020.
   (D)   Clerk action upon receipt. The clerk will accept and receive any
complete application that includes the information and documents required by §
115.03(B), unless the city has already received an application for the same
property (other than an application for a proposed co-located establishment)
from another applicant. Upon receiving a complete application, the clerk will
time- and date-stamp the application and inform the applicant of the following:
      (1)   The number of existing establishments of the proposed establishment
type currently operating within the city;
      (2)   The number of pending applications for the desired establishment
type; and
      (3)   The process by which an applicant will be selected pursuant to
division (E) of this section.
   (E)   Conditional authorization and competitive process. The clerk will
conditionally authorize establishments as follows:
      (1)   If, after close of business on the end date of the initial receipt
period, the city has received more applications for a given establishment type
than would be permitted under §
115.02, the city will decide among competing applications by a competitive
process intended to select applicants who are best suited to operate in
compliance with the MRTMA in the city. The city will provide applicants with 21
calendar days' notice that the applicants must provide supplemental written
information and documentation to the city indicating whether the applicant
satisfies each of the following criteria:
Scoring category Available points
Scoring category                                               Available points
Current medical marihuana facility license status in the City
and history of compliance with City and state regulations      10 points
associated with existing medical marihuana facility licenses
held in the City.
Background of the applicant, including past ownership interest
in a business or businesses operating in the State of
Michigan; past compliance with business licensing              10 points
requirements, including marihuana business licenses issued by
LARA; and residency in the City or Isabella County for at
least one year.
Human resources, including the number of full-time equivalent  10 points
employees.
Physical investment, including the applicant's proposed
tangible capital investment; the current and proposed          20 points
condition of the proposed location; and the applicant's
ownership stake in the physical location of the establishment.
Area impact, including the proximity of the establishment to
properties zoned or used residentially; and plans for litter   10 points
control, loitering, neighborhood outreach, noise mitigation,
odor mitigation, resident safety, and traffic mitigation.
Business operations, including a business plan; financing
plan; marketing and promotion plan, with an emphasis on        10 points
reducing exposure to minors; and strategic plan.
Establishment design, including the provision of glazing,
landscaping, and screening above City minimum requirements;
the use of durable building materials; compliance with the     10 points
Americans with Disabilities Act; and implementation of Crime
Prevention Through Environmental Design (CPTED) principles.
Energy efficiency, including Energy Star certification;
Michigan Energy Code compliance; use of energy from carbon-    10 points
free sources; and use of WaterSense fixtures.
Infrastructure impact, including the utilization of green
infrastructure or low-impact development design principles to  10 points
manage stormwater; and the provision of non-motorized
transportation infrastructure in excess of City requirements.
 
      (2)   The application and all supplemental information shall be delivered
to the city's Adult-Use Marihuana Establishment Selection Committee ("Selection
Committee"). The Selection Committee shall be comprised of the City Clerk, the
City Planner, and the Director of Public Safety. All meetings of the Selection
Committee shall be conducted in accordance with the Open Meetings Act, Act 267
of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., as amended.
      (3)   Upon timely receipt of the supplemental information described in
division (E)(1) of this section, the Selection Committee shall hold a public
meeting and assign points for each criterion that is satisfied and shall, based
on the resulting scores, select applicants who are best suited to operate in
compliance with the MRTMA in the City. The City Clerk shall notify the selected
applicants that they have been granted conditional authorization. In the event
of a tied score, the Selection Committee shall conduct a random drawing from
among the applicants with tied scores to determine which applicant shall
receive conditional authorization. The city's decision to grant conditional
authorization is final and is not appealable to the City Commission, City
Zoning Board of Appeals, or any other city official or body.
      (4)   If an applicant does not timely submit the supplemental information
described in division (E)(1) of this section, then the application shall be
discarded and shall not be considered under division (E)(3) of this section .
      (5)   For any establishment type not subject to numerical limits under §
115.02, or otherwise not subject to the competitive process described in
division (E)(1) of this section, the clerk will conditionally authorize
establishments in the order in which applications are received.
      (6)   Once the clerk has issued conditional authorizations for all of the
establishments of a given establishment type that would be permitted under §
115.02, the clerk will place subsequent applications at the end of the waiting
list for that establishment type. Applications shall be included on the waiting
list in the order designated by the Selection Committee under division (E)(3)
of this section.
   (F)   Final authorization. The clerk will grant final authorization for the
establishment if the applicant:
      (1)   Submits an application for special use authorization pursuant to §
154.410(B)(4)(p) of the zoning ordinance within 90 days of receiving
conditional authorization
      (2)   Obtains special use authorization within 12 months of receiving
conditional authorization; and
      (3)   Receives all required operating licenses and approvals from LARA
within 18 months after conditional authorization is granted.
      (4)   Enters into a written agreement with the city confirming that the
marihuana establishment will operate in accordance with the business plans,
building plans, design standards, and all other operational standards described
by the applicant in the application and in any supplemental materials submitted
under division (E) of this section. The agreement shall further provide that if
the establishment breaches the agreement, then the city may revoke
authorization of the establishment following notice and a public hearing, and
that in such event, the city shall be entitled to injunctive relief barring
further operation of the establishment in the city.
   (G)   Expiration of conditional authorization. If the applicant for a
conditionally authorized establishment fails to satisfy any of the deadlines
established above, the conditional authorization will expire. The City
Commission may extend any of the deadlines upon a showing of good cause.
   (H)   Waiting list and refund of administrative fee. The clerk will keep and
maintain the waiting lists established pursuant to division (E) of this section
until the maximum number of establishments of the type to which the list
pertains are operating in the city (at which time the clerk will discard the
waiting list). If a conditional authorization for a proposed establishment of
that establishment type expires, the clerk will conditionally authorize the
next application on the waiting list. Upon discarding the waiting list, the
clerk will refund the advance of the annual administrative fee established in §
115.05(D) to all applicants remaining on the waiting list.
   (I)   Newly available authorizations.
      (1)   For establishment types for which the maximum number of
establishments specified in §
115.02 are operating in the city, an authorization will become available when:
         (a)   The state operating license for an establishment with final
authorization expires or is revoked by LARA; or
         (b)   This chapter is amended to authorize additional establishments
of that establishment type.
      (2)   When an authorization becomes available as described in division
(I)(1), the City Clerk will establish a 30-day application period to begin
within the next 60 days, during which the city will accept applications from
interested persons, and will publish notice of the selected application period
in a newspaper of general circulation at least seven business days before the
beginning of that period.
      (3)   During the selected application period, the Clerk will accept
applications using the same process described in divisions (C) and (D) above.
If multiple applications are received during the application period, the
Selection Committee will request supplemental information and conduct a
competitive selection process as outlined in §
115.03(E) above.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 1080, passed 5-9-22)
§ 115.04 RELOCATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS, TRANSFERS OF LICENSES, AND EXPANSION OF
GROW OPERATIONS.
   (A)   An existing establishment may be moved to a new location in the city,
subject to applicable zoning regulations and approval by LARA.
   (B)   A license for an existing establishment may be transferred to a new
licensee that intends to continue operating at the same location, subject to
approval by LARA.
   (C)   A licensee may expand growing operations by upgrading the class of the
license (e.g., from class A to class B, or from class B to Class C), or by
obtaining a stacked license. To do so, the licensee must submit a new
application to the city satisfying the requirements in §
115.03(B), which shall include payment of the application fee and an advance of
any additional annual administrative fee that will be owed due to the addition
of stacked licenses. The application shall be conditionally approved upon
receipt of all required materials.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 1080, passed 5-9-22)
§ 115.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Submission of supplementary information to the city. Applicants for
city authorization and persons operating existing establishments in the city
must provide the city clerk with copies of all documents submitted to LARA in
connection with the initial license application, subsequent renewal
applications, or investigations conducted by LARA. The documents must be
provided to the clerk within seven days of submission to LARA, and may be
submitted by electronic media unless otherwise requested by the clerk.
   (B)   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Adult-use marihuana
establishments must be operated in compliance with the MRTMA, MRTMA rules, all
conditions of the establishment's state operating licenses, and all applicable
city ordinances. Compliance with the foregoing does not create immunity from
prosecution by federal authorities or other authorities of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   No consumption on premises. No smoking, inhalation, or other
consumption of marihuana shall take place on or within the premises of any
establishment. It shall be a violation of this chapter to engage in such
behavior, or for a person to knowingly allow such behavior to occur. Evidence
of all of the following gives rise to a rebuttable presumption that a person
allowed the consumption of marihuana on or within a premises in violation of
this section:
      (1)   The person had control over the premises or the portion of the
premises where the marihuana was consumed;
      (2)   The person knew or reasonably should have known that the marihuana
was consumed; and
      (3)   The person failed to take corrective action.
   (D)   Annual fee. A licensee must pay a fee of $5,000 for each license used
within the city in order to help defray administrative and enforcement costs.
The holder of a stacked grower license must pay a separate fee in the amount of
$5,000 for each license. The initial annual fee(s) must be paid to the City
Clerk when the application for city approval is submitted. In each subsequent
year, fees are due no later than January 31.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 1080, passed 5-9-22)
§ 115.06 TEMPORARY MARIHUANA EVENTS.
   (A)   Authorization. Temporary marihuana events are permitted in the City
only as provided in this section.
   (B)   Prelicensure conditional approval. Pursuant to Emergency Rule 62,
temporary marihuana events may only be held at a venue expressly approved by
the city for the purpose of holding a temporary marihuana event. Prior to
obtaining a temporary marihuana event license from LARA, a licensed marihuana
event organizer may apply to the city for prelicensure venue and event
approval. The application must include all of the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant. For applicants who are business
entities, the applicant shall provide the legal business name of the applicant.
      (2)   Verification that the marihuana event organizer holds a valid
license from LARA.
      (3)   A non-refundable application fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Commission.
      (4)   Verification that the applicant has been licensed by LARA as a
marihuana event organizer.
      (5)   The proposed date(s) and hours of operation of the temporary
marihuana event;
      (6)   The proposed venue of the temporary marihuana event, including the
street address, parcel number, and zoning designation;
      (7)   A list of all marihuana retailers and marihuana microbusinesses who
are expected to participate in the temporary marihuana event, and verification
that each retailer and microbusiness is licensed by LARA and authorized to
operate in the City under this chapter;
      (8)   A diagram of the physical layout of the temporary marihuana event,
which must clearly indicate:
         (a)   Where the temporary marihuana event will be taking place on the
location grounds.
         (b)   All entrances and exits that will be used by participants during
the event.
         (c)   All marihuana consumption areas.
         (d)   All marihuana retail areas where marihuana products will be
sold.
         (e)   Where marihuana waste will be stored.
         (f)   All areas where marihuana products will be stored.
         (g)   The specific location of each marihuana retailer or marihuana
microbusiness licensee who will be participating in the event.
      (9)   A description of all proposed event security and signage.
      (10)   An attestation from the applicant that the temporary marihuana
event will comply with the requirements of this section, the MRTMA, the
Emergency Rules, and any other administrative rules or guidelines promulgated
by LARA.
      (11)   An acknowledgment from the applicant that only edible marihuana
products will be sold or used at the temporary marihuana event.
      (12)   Any other information or documentation related to the proposed
temporary marihuana event requested by the City.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a complete application for preliminary approval, the
City Commission or its designee may determine whether to approve or disapprove
the proposed venue and proposed temporary marihuana event. In making this
determination, the city shall consider the following nonexclusive factors:
      (1)   Whether the applicant and the application satisfies the
requirements of division (B) of this section;
      (2)   The proximity of the temporary marihuana event to residential
homes, schools, daycare facilities, parks, and locations likely to be occupied
by individuals younger than 21 years of age;
      (3)   The impact of the temporary marihuana event on surrounding
properties and businesses, including but not limited to noise, odor, and
traffic impacts;
      (4)   The impact of the temporary marihuana event on the community as a
whole; and
      (5)   The sufficiency of the proposed security measures.
   (D)   If the proposed venue and event are approved, then the city shall
provide a written attestation to the applicant on the form provided by LARA
indicating that the applicant is authorized to engage in onsite marihuana sales
to, and onsite consumption by, persons 21 years of age or older at the
temporary marihuana event at the proposed location, conditioned on the
applicant obtaining all required licensed from LARA and complying the MRTMA,
Emergency Rules, and any other administrative rules or guidelines promulgated
by LARA.
   (E)   Requirements. All temporary marihuana events must satisfy the
following requirements at the time of the commencement of the event and through
the duration of the event:
      (1)   The applicant must hold a valid marihuana event organizer license
issued by LARA.
      (2)   The applicant must hold a temporary marihuana event license from
LARA for the temporary marihuana event.
      (3)   A temporary marihuana event may be held for a maximum of seven
consecutive days.
      (4)   A temporary marihuana event may only operate between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
      (5)   The temporary marihuana event, and all sales and consumptions that
occur during the temporary marihuana event, must comply with the requirements
of the MRTMA, the Emergency Rules, and any other administrative rules or
guidelines promulgated by LARA.
      (6)   In addition to the sign requirements imposed by LARA, all signs for
the temporary marihuana event must comply with the city's zoning requirements
for temporary signs.
      (7)   Marihuana sale and consumption at temporary marihuana events shall
be limited to edible marihuana products.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19)
§ 115.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Request for revocation ofstate operating license. If at any time an
authorized establishment violates this chapter or any other applicable city
ordinance, the City Commission may request that LARA revoke or refrain from
renewing the establishment's state operating license.
   (B)   Civil infraction. It is unlawful to disobey, neglect, or refuse to
comply with any provision of this chapter. A violation of this chapter is a
municipal civil infraction. Each day the violation continues shall be a
separate offense. Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance to the
contrary, violators shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First violation = $500
      (2)   Second offense = $2,500
      (3)   Each subsequent offense = $5,000
   (C)   Other remedies. The foregoing sanctions are in addition to the city's
right to seek other appropriate and proper remedies, including actions in law
or equity.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19)
§ 115.08 POLICY REVIEW IN 2023.
   On or before December 31, 2023, city staff shall submit a report to the City
Commission regarding the administration of this ordinance and the provisions of
the zoning ordinance pertaining to adult-use marihuana, and regarding any other
pertinent information relating to the operation of adult-use marihuana
establishments in the city. The report may include proposed ordinance
amendments or other proposed policy changes.
(Ord. 1046, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 1080, passed 5-9-22)
CHAPTER 116: ELECTRIC SCOOTERS/SKATEBOARDS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Operating license required
   
116.03   Regulations
   
116.04   License transfer, revocation and suspension
   
116.05   Data sharing and reporting
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRIC SKATEBOARD or ELECTRIC SCOOTER. A wheeled device that satisfies all
of the following:
      (1)   Has a floorboard designed to be stood upon when riding that is no
more than 60 inches long and 18 inches wide;
      (2)   Is designed to transport only one person at a time;
      (3)   Has an electrical propulsion system with power of no more than
2,500 watts and has a maximum speed on a paved level surface of not more than
25 miles per hour;
      (4)   Has handlebars and, in addition to having an electrical propulsion
system with power of no more than 2,500 watts, may be designed to also be
powered by human propulsion.
These terms may be used interchangeably for purposes of this chapter.
   ELECTRIC SKATEBOARD COMPANY or ELECTRIC SCOOTER COMPANY. A person or entity
that provides, or otherwise makes available to the public, one or more electric
skateboards or electric scooters for use for payment.
   OPERATING LICENSE. A written license issued by the City of Mt. Pleasant
authorizing a licensee to operate an electric skateboard company or electric
scooter company with the intent that the electric skateboards or electric
scooters be operated within the city on the city's public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1085, passed 10-10-22)
§ 116.02 OPERATING LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person or entity seeking to operate a shared electric scooter
program within the city shall first obtain an operating license from the city
conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any other
conditions (including insurance, indemnity, and performance bond) established
by the city. No person or entity shall operate an electric skateboard company
within the city except pursuant to such license and provisions (each such
operator, a "licensee").
   (B)   Every owner of a shared electric scooter program desiring to obtain an
operating license is required to make written application to the City Clerk,
which shall be accompanied by the fee established by resolution of the City
Commission. An applicant shall truthfully and fully provide the following
information requested on the application:
      (1)   The full name(s), business address, e-mail address, driver's
license and phone number of the owner or operator of the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the applicant's local business office, if any;
      (3)   The name of the business entity under which the applicant will be
operating;
      (4)   The names and residence addresses of all shareholders, members, or
partners of the entity applying for an operating license;
      (5)   The logo or other branding unique to the applicant that will be
visible on every electric scooter it operates or makes available for operation;
      (6)   The telephone number, email address, and website that the public
may contact to lodge complaints or make reports related to the applicant's
electric scooter operation in the city;
      (7)   A certificate of insurance satisfying the requirements of this
chapter;
      (8)   Acknowledgment of the requirements established by this chapter and
otherwise meets the requirements of this chapter;
      (9)   A description of each model of electric scooter intended to be used
by the applicant, including brand, model number, serial numbers, if any, body
style, and number of units to be made available; and
      (10)   Such other information as the City Clerk may require including,
but not limited to, any business licenses and tax forms required under state
and federal law.
   (C)   The operating license shall expire on December 31 each year unless
suspended or revoked as provided in this chapter. A renewal license shall also
expire on December 31 each year, with a renewal business license fee paid as
specified in a fee, bond and insurance schedule as provided by resolution of
the City Commission and in this chapter. Electric skateboards shall be driven
and operated in compliance with all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon filing of the application for an operating license, the City
Clerk shall review and evaluate the application, along with the Chief of Police
or their designee, who shall cause an investigation to be made. In determining
whether an operating license should be issued, the City Clerk shall evaluate
whether the application is complete, and whether the applicant has violated any
provisions of this chapter within the past year. Any application that does not
include all of the information required by this chapter, is not supported by
the materials required, or if the applicant has two or more violation of this
chapter in the past year, shall result in an automatic denial of an operating
license. The license may also be denied based upon the factors set out in this
chapter.
   (E)   Before the issuance of an operating license by the City Clerk, the
City Police Department shall inspect 10% of the fleet of electric scooters
proposed to be used by the applicant and notify the City Clerk whether they
satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   If an operating license is not approved, the applicant may file an
appeal as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1085, passed 10-10-22)
§ 116.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Electric skateboard users. In addition to the restrictions on parking
and operation of electric skateboards found in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code
and the Uniform Traffic Code, electric skateboard users are subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   Electric skateboards shall be parked upright on hard surfaces on
the sidewalk but only if at least five linear feet of unobstructed sidewalk is
preserved for safe pedestrian travel and where designated, if at all, by the
city manager through an administrative order.
      (2)   Electric skateboards may not park in such a manner that impedes or
interferes with access to or use of: sidewalks, crosswalks, or sidewalk ramps;
bus stops, shelters, or waiting areas; loading zones or handicapped parking
spaces; fire hydrants; benches; parking meters or pay stations; commercial
window displays; access to or from any buildings; any bicycle racks; and
streets, driveways or alleys.
      (3)   Electric skateboards may not be parked in street metered vehicular
parking spaces or vehicular spaces within city parking garages and surface
lots.
      (4)   Electric skateboards may be parked on streets without sidewalks
only if the roadway travel lanes and bike lanes are not impeded.
      (5)   While on sidewalks within the city, electric skateboards shall be
driven at no more than ten miles per hour.
      (6)   Electric skateboards are to stay to the right of street lanes and
to offer the right-of-way to bicycles on bike lanes and bike paths.
      (7)   An electric skateboard being operated between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise shall be equipped with and have in
operation a lamp on the front that emits a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear that
shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
      (8)   No person may consume, or possess in a container which is open,
uncapped or upon which the seal was broken, any beer, wine, spirits, or a mixed
spirits drink (collectively "alcoholic beverage") while riding an electric
skateboard.
   (B)   Electric skateboard companies.
      (1)   Electric skateboard companies shall only permit it to be so driven
or operated if the device is in compliance with all of the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Electric skateboard companies shall provide easily visible contact
information on each electric skateboard, including: a logo or other branding; a
unique identification number that is visible while the electric skateboard is
parked upright; and contact information for the company that is visible while
the electric skateboard is parked upright, including telephone number, email
address, and website.
      (3)   Electric skateboard companies shall maintain a 24-hour customer
service phone number for customers and members of the public to report safety
concerns, complaints, or to ask questions.
      (4)   Within two hours of receiving notice, electric skateboard companies
shall respond to requests from any person or entity for rebalancing, reports of
incorrectly parked electric skateboards, or reports of unsafe/inoperable
electric skateboards, damaged, in low battery state or when blocking the public
right-of-way by relocating, reparking, or removing the electric skateboard, as
appropriate. Electric skateboard companies shall respond to reports from any
person or entity of safety or maintenance issues with a specific device, by
remotely making that electric skateboard unavailable to users in addition to
removing the electric skateboard as required in this section.
      (5)   Electric skateboard companies shall ensure that any inoperable or
unsafe device shall be repaired before it is put back into service.
      (6)   Electric skateboard companies shall provide education to shared
electric scooter riders on the city's existing rules and regulations, safe and
courteous riding, and proper parking.
      (7)   Electric skateboard companies shall ensure each electric scooter
must be equipped with the following in working condition: a proper braking
system, a speedometer, a lamp on the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on
the rear that shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor
vehicle (a lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear may be used in addition to the red reflector), and any other equipment
required to comply with all applicable federal and state laws.
      (8)   Electric skateboard companies shall ensure that the use policy
includes clear prohibition on more than one person riding on an electric
skateboard at a time.
      (9)   Electric skateboard companies shall indemnify, defend, and hold
harmless the city against any and all liability, actions, or claims resulting
from the conduct or operations related to electric skateboards by any person or
entity.
      (10)   Electric skateboard companies shall maintain insurance providing
liability coverage in an amount not less than $500,000 per incident and
$1,000,000 aggregate;
      (11)   Electric skateboard companies shall deploy electric skateboards
only in areas so designated by the city.
      (12)   Electric skateboard companies shall, at least once every 24 hours,
reset all electric skateboards owned or operated by it in an upright, neatly
lined up position in areas designated by the Public Safety Director (or their
designee) and in a manner that does not interfere with pedestrian and vehicular
travel. An electric skateboard company shall, upon request by the Public Safety
Director (or their designee) in his or her sole determination that the
operation of electric scooters owned or operated by the company has become a
nuisance or hazard to the public, remove all electric scooters from the public
rights-of-way until such time as the company prepares a written plan
satisfactory to the Public Safety Director (or their designee) that addresses
the conditions causing the nuisance or hazard.
      (13)   Electric skateboard companies shall remove all electric
skateboards from the public rights-of-way within the city when snow/ice or
other weather conditions require removal for purposes reasonably related to
city operations such as plowing and maintenance of streets and sidewalks and
access to public facilities, as determined by the city manager.
      (14)   The city reserves the right to restrict the number of electric
skateboards deployed in the city by any licensee.
(Ord. 1085, passed 10-10-22; Am. Ord. 1086, passed 2-13-23)
§ 116.04 LICENSE TRANSFER, REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No licensee under this chapter shall allow any other person or entity
to use such license, nor shall any licensee transfer the license to any person
or entity.
   (B)   Operating licenses may be denied, suspended or revoked by the city
based upon any of the following grounds:
      (1)   The applicant or owner of the electric scooter fails or has failed
to comply with the application provisions of this chapter or any other
provisions of this chapter or the city's code, including §
110.04;
      (2)   The applicant or owner has been convicted of any felony involving
force and/or violence; any misdemeanor or felony reckless driving or driving
under the influence offense; or any crime reasonably related to the
qualifications, functions, or duties of the passenger transport business;
unless five years has elapsed from the successful completion of the sentence
for any such convictions;
      (3)   The applicant or owner has knowingly made a false statement of
material fact, or knowingly failed to state a material fact in the application
process for the operating license;
      (4)   The applicant or owner has engaged in activity that, in the
judgment of the City Police Chief or their designee, constitutes a serious
threat to public health, safety or welfare; or
      (5)   The applicant or owner is in default to the city, including being
delinquent in the payment of any taxes, fees or other city charges.
   (C)   Any person whose license is denied, revoked or suspended shall be
entitled to an appeal in accordance with §
110.04.
   (D)   Any electric skateboard deployed or parked in an area not designated
for deployment or parking by the city is subject to being impounded by the city
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.252d(1)(b) and is subject to a retrieval fee as set
forth from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 1085, passed 10-10-22)
§ 116.05 DATA SHARING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Each month, a licensed company shall make available upon request the
following data with the city in order to improve future operations for electric
skateboards within the city:
      (1)   Electric skateboard utilization rates;
      (2)   Trip volumes, including a separate notation of the number of trips
originating within the city;
      (3)   Trip distances and routes;
      (4)   Starting and stopping points for each trip;
      (5)   Number of electric skateboards it deployed in the city each day;
      (6)   Number of electric skateboards it removed from the city each day;
      (7)   Parking compliance rates;
      (8)   Any information regarding theft and vandalism of the electric
skateboards;
      (9)   Maintenance records for any electric skateboards deployed within
the city; and
      (10)   Records of any accidents or crashes involving users of electric
skateboards.
   (B)   Within a reasonable time after any information supplied on a license
application changes, the licensee shall provide to the city clerk the updated
information.
(Ord. 1085, passed 10-10-22)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
110.99.
(Ord. 1085, passed 10-10-22)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND PROPERTY
   
132.   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
   
133.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   General penalty
Minors
   
130.10   Contributing to delinquency of a minor
   
130.11   Curfew
   
130.12   Parental responsibility
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol offenses involving minors, see §§
132.02 through 132.08
§ 130.01 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating a provision of this title for which no specific penalty
is otherwise provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not
exceeding $500, or imprisoned for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both, unless
the provision substantially corresponds to a violation of state law that is a
misdemeanor for which the maximum period of imprisonment is 93 days, in which
case the person may be fined an amount not exceeding $500, or imprisoned for a
term not exceeding 93 days, or both.
(Ord. 1018, passed 10-12-16)
MINORS
§ 130.10 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   No person shall accost, entice, or solicit any child under the age of 16
years to commit any act of depravity or delinquency.
§ 130.11 CURFEW.
   (A)   No child under the age of 12 years shall be permitted, caused or
suffered to be upon the public streets or in any public place between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless such child is accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian, or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to
accompany such child. No child under the age of 16 years shall be permitted,
caused or suffered to be upon the public street or in any public place between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., unless such child is accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian or some adult delegated by his or her parent or
guardian to accompany such child.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, or religious event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel.
§ 130.12 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other person having the
care or custody of any minor to permit, allow or encourage such minor to
violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY, AND PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Disturbing the peace
   
131.03   Crossing police line or clear zone
   
131.04   Discharging firearms and other devices
   
131.05   Gambling devices, gambling prohibited
   
131.06   Abandoned refrigerators
   
131.07   Destroying, injuring or interfering with public property
   
131.08   Prohibition of spray devices
   
131.09   Trespassing
   
131.10   Larceny
   
131.11   Assault and battery
   
131.12   Malicious destruction of property under $200
   
131.13   Skateboards, roller skates, and inline skates
   
131.14   Prohibited conduct in certain places
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Prohibited conduct.  It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Engage in prostitution or solicit or accost any person for the
purpose of inducing the commission of prostitution.
      (2)   Engage in window peeping.
      (3)   While intoxicated in a public place, engage in conduct that causes
a public disturbance or endangers oneself or others.
      (4)   Make threatening, abusive, insulting, or sex-related comments or
gestures to a specific person or persons in a manner that intimidates, offends,
or otherwise provokes a reaction of fear, anger, or apprehension in such person
or persons, or is intended to cause such reactions.
      (5)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant of any place where
prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale or use of alcoholic beverages, drugs
or any other illegal business or occupation is permitted or conducted.
      (6)   Solicit employment of legal services or services of sureties upon
criminal recognizance in or about a police station, police headquarters
building, county jail, hospital, court building, or other public building.
      (7)   Unnecessarily interfere with the passage of others through a public
place.
      (8)   Urinate or defecate on or about any public place outside of an
appropriate sanitary facility.
   (B)   Public place defined. For purposes of this chapter, the term PUBLIC
PLACE means any street, sidewalk, alley, park, parking lot, public building, or
any other property, public or private, open for use by the general public.
(M.C.L.A. § 750.167) (Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 577, passed 7-21-80; Am. Ord.
804, passed 8-25-97; Am. Ord. 1007, passed 12-14-15)
§ 131.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any noisy or riotous
persons to assemble in any house owned, occupied or controlled by him/her, to
the annoyance or disturbance of the neighborhood and the public peace.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to wilfully interrupt or disturb any assembly of
people met for the worship of God, within the place of such meeting or out of
it. (M.C.L.A. § 750.169)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a violent, turbulent,
quarrelsome, or disorderly manner, which would disturb the good order, peace
and dignity of the city, its inhabitants or persons.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person, with the purpose of causing public
danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, or if his or her conduct is likely to
cause public danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, to willfully use abusive or
obscene language or make an obscene gesture to any other person when such words
by their very utterance inflict injury or tend to incite an immediate breach of
the peace.
(Ord. 900, passed 9-13-04)
§ 131.03 CROSSING POLICE LINE OR CLEAR ZONE.
   (A)   When any fire, accident, explosion, parade, calamity, public
disturbance or other occasion causes or may cause persons to collect on the
public streets, sidewalks or other areas of the city, the Director of Public
Safety or his/her designee may establish a police line or zone as may be
necessary for the purpose of affording a clearing for:
      (1)   the protection of persons and property;
      (2)   police officers, firefighters, emergency medical personnel; and
other personnel performing operations in accordance with their duties;
      (3)   the exclusion of the public from the vicinity of a fire, accident,
explosion, calamity, other emergency or public disturbances;
      (4)   the passage of a parade; or
      (5)   the movement of traffic.
   (B)   Any person who shall knowingly cross any such line, knowingly enter
into any such zone, or remain in any such zone after being requested to leave,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Provided, that bona fide and properly
identified representatives of the press and media, residents of the zone, and
such other persons as the Director of Public Safety or his/her designee may
authorize to cross such lines or be within such zone, may be permitted to cross
such lines or enter into such zone, and may remain in such zone so long as they
will not and do not interfere with emergency personnel performing their duties.
   (C)   Every person present within such zone shall comply with any necessary
order or instruction of any police officer. Any person who refuses to comply
with the necessary order of a police officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 633, passed 9-3-85)
§ 131.04 DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or other
instrument producing a like effect and noise within the city, except:
      (1)   In the lawful defense of person or property;
      (2)   At regularly established indoor firearm ranges authorized by the
city;
      (3)   At such times and places as have been approved by the City
Commission, following a public hearing; and
      (4)   As otherwise permitted by law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and arrow,
crossbow, or compound bow, or to discharge any other type of device which
expels a projectile capable of causing death or serious physical injury,
anywhere within the city, except:
      (1)   At regularly established archery ranges authorized by the city;
      (2)   At such times and places as have been approved by the City
Commission, following a public hearing; and
      (3)   As otherwise permitted by law.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 761, passed 7-24-95; Am. Ord. 860, passed 8-27-01;
Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-22-01; Am. Ord. 1026, passed 9-11-17)
§ 131.05 GAMBLING DEVICES, GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any common gambling
house, or gaming room, or to permit on any premises owned, occupied or
controlled by him/her any apparatus or device used for gaming or gambling, or
to use such apparatus or device or to assist any other person to use same for
gaming or gambling purposes. It shall be unlawful for any person to have in
his/her possession any policy or pool slips, tickets, checks, or any paper
which is marked additionally with any kind of notation indicating any form of
gambling, and the possession of such writing or device shall constitute, prima
facie, evidence of intention to use same for gambling.
Statutory reference:
   Gambling prohibited, see M.C.L.A. § 750.301 et seq.
§ 131.06 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave in a place accessible to
children any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or any
other container of any kind or size sufficient to permit the entrapment or
suffocation of a child therein, without first removing the snap-lock or other
locking device from the lid or cover thereof.
(M.C.L.A. § 750.493d)
§ 131.07 DESTROYING, INJURING OR INTERFERING WITH PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure or deface, or in any
manner interfere with or hinder the use of, any public building or any public
property whatsoever.
§ 131.08 PROHIBITION OF SPRAY DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition.    For the purpose of this section, SPRAY DEVICE means a
device or container which contains more than 3/4 ounce of solution which
ejects, releases or emits one of the following:
      (1)   More than 35 grams of any combination of
orthochlorobenzalmalononitrile and inert ingredients; or
      (2)   A solution containing more than 2% oleoresin capsicum.
   (B)   A person who uses a spray device to eject, release or emit
orthochlorobenzalmalononitrile or oleoresin capsicum at another person is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   A person shall not sell a spray device to a minor. A person who
violates this division is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Division (B) above does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The reasonable use of a spray device by a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the law enforcement officer's duty.
      (2)   The reasonable use of a spray device by a person in the protection
of a person or property under circumstances which would justify the person's
use of physical force.
(Ord. 754, passed 8-22-94)
§ 131.09 TRESPASSING.
   Any person who shall willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another
without lawful authority, after having been forbidden so to do by the owner or
occupant, or the agent or servant of either, or any person remaining upon the
land or premises of another, upon being notified to depart therefrom by the
owner or occupant, or the agent or servant of either, or any person who enters
or remains without lawful authority on fenced or posted lands or premises of
another without the consent of the owner or occupant, or the agent or servant
of either, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
punished as provided in §
130.01.
(Am. Ord. 964, passed 4-25-11)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see M.C.L.A. § 750.552
§ 131.10 LARCENY.
   A person who commits larceny by stealing any of the following property of
another person is guilty of a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Money, goods, or chattels.
   (B)   A bank note, bank bill, bond, promissory note, due bill, bill of
exchange or other bill, draft, order or certificate.
   (C)   A book of accounts for or concerning money or goods due, or to be
delivered.
   (D)   A deed or writing containing a conveyance of land or other valuable
contact in force.
   (E)   A receipt, release, or defeasance.
   (F)   A writ, process, or public record.
(Ord. 828, passed 10-25-99; Am. Ord. 1018, passed 10-12-16)
§ 131.11 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   A person who assaults or assaults and batters an individual, if no other
punishment is prescribed by law, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of no more than $500, or both.
(Ord. 829, passed 10-25-99; Am. Ord. 964, passed 4-25-11)
§ 131.12 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY UNDER $200.
   A person who willfully and maliciously destroys or injures the personal
property of another person, if the amount of the destruction or injury is less
than $200, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more
than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500 or both imprisonment and a fine.
(Ord. 837, passed 2-28-00)
§ 131.13 SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, AND INLINE SKATES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller skate or
inline skate in any city owned parking lot or in the Town Center (the public
property bordered by Main Street, Mosher Street and Broadway) at any time.
   (B)   The City Commission may, by resolution, prohibit the use of
skateboards, roller skates or inline skates on public property. No person shall
ride a skateboard, roller skate or inline skate upon any public property where
it is prohibited by resolution of the City Commission and so posted.
   (C)   The prohibitions contained in this section do not apply to a police
officer engaged in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and prosecuted in accordance with
the Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The fine for a violation of a
municipal civil infraction under this section shall not exceed $50. Any minor
who violates any provision of this ordinance shall be dealt with by the
juvenile division of the probate court or as prescribed by the laws of the
state.
(Ord. 889, passed 4-14-03)
§ 131.14 PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure the safety and sense
of safety of persons in the community by prohibiting interactions with
occupants of motor vehicles operating in traffic lanes and by ensuring zones of
personal safety for those engaging in certain activities.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings provided in this division:
      ACCOST. To approach or speak to a person in such a manner as would cause
a reasonable person to apprehension for his or her personal safety, of imminent
bodily harm or of the commission of a criminal act upon his or her person, or
upon property in his or her immediate possession.
      FORCE ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER. That, after engaging or
attempting to engage another person in conversation or to induce them into an
exchange of any items in a public place, a person does one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Blocks the passage of the other person;
         (b)   Pursues and continues to address the other person for at least
ten feet as the other person attempts to walk away or verbally expresses a
desire not to so engage; or
         (c)   Otherwise engages in conduct which could reasonably be construed
as intended to compel or force the other person to accede to a request or
demand.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Shall have the same meaning a provided in §
131.01.
   (C)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Accost another.
      (2)   Force oneself upon the company of another.
      (3)   Enter or reach into a traffic lane in a public right-of-way to
render any service (except emergency medical or mechanical services) or
exchanging with, conveying to, or receiving from an occupant of any vehicle in
a traffic lane any funds or other items.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D), to solicit money or
other things of value:
         (a)   On private property if the owner, tenant or lawful occupant has
asked the person not to solicit on the property or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property;
         (b)   While located within 15 feet of the entrance to or exit from any
public toilet facility;
         (c)   While located within 15 feet of an automated teller machine,
provided that when an automated teller machine is located within an automated
teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or
exit of the automated teller machine facility;
         (d)   While located within 15 feet of any pay telephone, provided that
when a pay telephone is located within a telephone booth or other facility,
such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the telephone
booth or facility;
         (e)   While located within any public transportation vehicle, or
within 15 feet of any bus stop, taxi stand or rapid transit stop;
         (f)   While located within 15 feet from any person who is waiting in
line for entry to any building, public or private, including, but not limited
to, any residence, business or athletic facility; or
         (g)   While located within 15 feet of the entrance or exit from a
building, public or private, including, but not limited to, any residence,
business or athletic facility.
   (D)   Exceptions. Division (C) does not apply to:
      (1)   Soliciting money or other things of value on private property with
the consent or invitation of the property owner; or
      (2)   Soliciting money or other things of value from the occupant of a
residential unit, when such solicitation occurs at the front entrance of the
residential unit and the occupant has not asked the person not to solicit on
the property or posted a sign clearly indicating that solicitations are not
welcome.
      (3)   Soliciting emergency assistance from anyone when a person is in
immediate need of emergency medical care or a person is being threatened by
others with bodily harm.
(Ord. 1007, passed 12-14-15; Am. Ord. 1009, passed 4-25-16)
CHAPTER 132: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
Alcoholic Beverage Offenses
   
132.01   Public consumption; open container
   
132.02   Furnishing alcoholic beverages to minors prohibited
   
132.03   Purchase, consumption, and possession of alcoholic beverages by minors
prohibited
   
132.04   Furnishing or using fraudulent identification
   
132.05   Authority to stop violators; appearance tickets
   
132.06   License sanctions
   
132.07   Preliminary breath test
   
132.08   Notice to parents or guardians
Cross-reference:
   Minors, see §§
130.10 through 130.12
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE OFFENSES
§ 132.01 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION; OPEN CONTAINER.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquors shall be consumed on any public highway, street,
alley, public place, or place of amusement or recreation open to the public not
licensed by the state to sell alcoholic liquors.
   (B)   No person shall transport or possess any alcoholic liquor in a
container which is open, uncapped, or upon which the seal is broken, on the
public streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-ways of the city.
(Ord. 739, passed 4-27-92)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor on the
public highways, street and alleys, vehicle parking lots, or any public place
within the city where the consumption of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by the
laws of the state.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit public consumption, see M.C.L.A. § 436.34
§ 132.02 FURNISHING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold or furnished to a person unless the
person has attained 21 years of age. A person who knowingly sells or furnishes
alcoholic liquor to a person who is less than 21 years of age, or who fails to
make diligent inquiry as to whether the person is less than 21 years of age, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96)
§ 132.03 PURCHASE, CONSUMPTION, AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY MINORS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquor, consume or attempt to consume alcoholic liquor, or
possess or attempt to possess alcoholic liquor, or have any bodily alcohol
content, except as provided in division (B).
   (B)   This section does not prohibit a person less than 21 years of age from
engaging in any of the following:
      (1)   Possessing alcoholic liquor during regular working hours and in the
course of his or her employment if employed by a person licensed to sell or
transport alcoholic liquor, if the alcoholic liquor is not possessed for his or
her personal consumption.
      (2)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by a minor who is enrolled in a
course offered by an accredited postsecondary educational institution in an
academic building of the institution under the supervision of a faculty member
is not prohibited by this act if the purpose of the consumption is solely
educational and is a requirement of the course.
      (3)   The consumption by a minor of sacramental wine in connection with
religious services at a church, synagogue, or temple is not prohibited by this
section.
      (4)   Possessing alcoholic liquor in an undercover operation under the
direction of the person's employer and with the prior approval of the local
prosecutor's office as part of an employer sponsored internal enforcement
action.
      (5)   An undercover operation in which the minor purchases or receives
alcoholic liquor under the direction of the state police, the commission, or a
local police agency as part of an enforcement action unless the initial or
contemporaneous purchase or receipt of alcoholic liquor by the minor was not
under the direction of the state police, the commission, or the local police
agency and was not part of the undercover operation.
   (C)   The penalty for a violation of this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation, a person shall be guilty of a civil
infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than $100. The court may also
order community service, participation in substance use disorder services as
defined in Section 6230 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6230
and designated by the administrator of the office of substance abuse services,
and substance abuse screening and assessment at his or her own expense as
described in division (C)(4) below. A person may be found responsible or admit
responsibility only once under this division.
      (2)   If a violation of division (A) occurs after one prior judgment, the
minor is guilty of a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor under this subsection is
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 30 days if the court finds that
the minor violated an order of probation, failed to successfully complete any
treatment, screening, or community service ordered by the court, or failed to
pay any fine for that conviction or juvenile adjudication, or by a fine of not
more than $200, or both. A court may order a minor under this subdivision to
participate in substance use disorder services as defined in Section 6230 of
the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6230, and designated by the
administrator of the Office of Substance Abuse Services, to perform community
service, to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at his or her own
expense as described in division (C)(4) below, and sanctions against his or her
operator's or chauffeur's license as provided in section §
132.06.
      (3)   If a violation of division (A) occurs after two or more prior
judgments, the minor is guilty of a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor under this
subdivision is punishable by imprisonment for not more than 60 days, if the
court finds that the minor violated an order of probation, failed to
successfully complete any treatment, screening, or community service ordered by
the court, or failed to pay any fine for that conviction or juvenile
adjudication, or by a fine of not more than $500, or both, as applicable. A
court may order a minor under this subsection to participate in substance use
disorder services as defined in Section 6230 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA
368, MCL 333.6230, and designated by the administrator of the Office of
Substance Abuse Services, to perform community service, to undergo substance
abuse screening and assessment at his or her own expense as described in
division (C)(4) below, and sanctions against his or her operator's or
chauffeur's license as provided in §
132.06.
      (4)   A court may order an individual found responsible for, or convicted
of, violating this section to undergo screening and assessment by a person or
agency as designated by the department-designated community mental health
entity as defined in Section 100A of the Mental Health Code, 1974 PA 258, MCL
330.1100a, to determine whether the individual is likely to benefit from
rehabilitative services, including alcohol or drug education and alcohol or
drug treatment programs. A court may order an individual subject to a
misdemeanor conviction or juvenile adjudication of, or placed on probation
regarding, a violation of this section to submit to a random or regular
preliminary chemical breath analysis. The parent, guardian, or custodian of a
minor who is less than 18 years of age and not emancipated under 1968 PA 293,
MCL 722.1 to 722.6, may request a random or regular preliminary chemical breath
analysis as part of the probation.
      (5)   An individual who pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (C)(2), or offers a plea of admission in a juvenile delinquency
proceeding for a misdemeanor violation of division (C)(2), the court, without
entering a judgment of guilt in a criminal proceeding or a determination in a
juvenile delinquency proceeding that the juvenile has committed the offense,
and with the consent of the accused, may defer further proceedings and place
the individual on probation. The terms and conditions of that probation
include, but are not limited to, the sanctions in division (C)(3), payment of
the costs including minimum state cost as provided for in Section 18m of
Chapter XIIA of the Probate Code of 1939, 1939 PA 288, MCL 712A.18m, and
section 1j of Chapter IX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1927 PA 175, MCL
769.1j, and the costs of probation as prescribed in Section 3 of Chapter XI of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1927 PA 175, MCL 771.3. If a court finds that
an individual violated a term or condition of probation or that the individual
is utilizing this subsection in another court, the court may enter an
adjudication of guilt, or a determination in a juvenile delinquency proceeding
that the individual has committed the offense, and proceed as otherwise
provided by law. If an individual fulfills the terms and conditions of
probation, the court shall discharge the individual and dismiss the
proceedings. Discharge and dismissal under this subsection shall be without
adjudication of guilt or without a determination in a juvenile delinquency
proceeding that the individual has committed the offense and is not a
conviction or juvenile adjudication for purposes of disqualifications or
disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime. An individual may
obtain only one discharge and dismissal under this subsection. The court shall
maintain a nonpublic record of the matter while proceedings are deferred and
the individual is on probation and if there is a discharge and dismissal under
this division. The secretary of state shall retain a nonpublic record of a plea
and of the discharge and dismissal under this subsection. These records shall
be furnished to any of the following:
         (a)   To a court, prosecutor, or police agency on request for the
purpose of determining if an individual has already utilized this division.
         (b)   To the department of corrections, a prosecutor, or a law
enforcement agency, on the department's, a prosecutor's, or a law enforcement
agency's request, subject to all of the following conditions:
            1.   At the time of the request, the individual is an employee of
the department of corrections, the prosecutor, or the law enforcement agency,
or an applicant for employment with the department of corrections, the
prosecutor, or the law enforcement agency.
            2.   The record is used by the department of corrections, the
prosecutor, or the law enforcement agency only to determine whether an employee
has violated his or her conditions of employment or whether an applicant meets
criteria for employment.
      (6)   A misdemeanor violation of division (C) successfully deferred,
discharged, and dismissed under division (C)(5) is considered a prior judgment
for the purposes of division (C)(3).
   (D)   The following individuals are not considered to be in violation of
division (A):
      (1)   A minor who has consumed alcoholic liquor and who voluntarily
presents himself or herself to a health facility or agency for treatment or for
observation including, but not limited to, medical examination and treatment
for any condition arising from a violation of Sections 520b to 520g of the
Michigan Penal Code, 1931 PA 328, MCL 750.520b to 750.520g, committed against a
minor.
      (2)   A minor who accompanies an individual who meets both of the
following criteria:
         (a)   Has consumed alcoholic liquor.
         (b)   Voluntarily presents himself or herself to a health facility or
agency for treatment or for observation including, but not limited to, medical
examination and treatment for any condition arising from a violation of
Sections 520b to 520g of the Michigan Penal Code, 1931 PA 328, MCL 750.520b to
750.520g, committed against a minor.
      (3)   A minor who initiates contact with a peace officer or emergency
medical services personnel for the purpose of obtaining medical assistance for
a legitimate health care concern.
   (E)   If a minor who is less than 18 years of age and who is not emancipated
under 1968 PA 293, MCL 722.1 to 722.6, voluntarily presents himself or herself
to a health facility or agency for treatment or for observation as provided
under division (D), the health facility or agency shall notify the parent or
parents, guardian, or custodian of the individual as to the nature of the
treatment or observation if the name of a parent, guardian, or custodian is
reasonably ascertainable by the health facility or agency.
   (F)   In a prosecution for the violation of division (A) concerning a minor
having any bodily alcohol content, it is an affirmative defense that the minor
consumed the alcoholic liquor in a venue or location where that consumption is
legal.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      (1)    ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirituous, vinous, malt, or fermented
liquor, powder, beer, wine, spirits, alcoholic liquids, and compounds, whether
or not medicated, proprietary, patented, and by whatever name called,
containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or more of alcohol by volume, which
are fit for use for food purposes or beverage purposes as defined and
classified by the liquor control commission according to alcoholic content as
belonging to one of the varieties defined in MCL Chapter 436.
      (2)   ANY BODILY ALCOHOL CONTENT. Either of the following:
         (a)   An alcohol content of 0.02 grams or more per 100 milliliters of
blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
         (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from
the consumption of alcoholic liquor, other than consumption of alcoholic liquor
as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. That term as defined in
Section 20904 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.20904.
      (4)   HEALTH FACILITY OR AGENCY. That term as defined in Section 20106 of
the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.20106.
      (5)   PRIOR JUDGMENT. A conviction, juvenile adjudication, finding of
responsibility, or admission of responsibility for any of the following,
whether under a law of this state, a local ordinance substantially
corresponding to a law of this state, a law of the United States substantially
corresponding to a law of this state, or a law of another state substantially
corresponding to a law of this state:
         (a)   This section or MCL 436.1701, 436.1703, or 436.1707.
         (b)   Section 624a, 624b, or 625 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA
300, MCL 257.624a, 257.624b, and 257.625.
         (c)   Section 80176, 81134, or 82127 of the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, MCL 324.80176, 324.81134, and
324.82127.
         (d)   Section 167a or 237 of the Michigan Penal Code, 1939 PA 328, MCL
750.167a and 750.237.
      (6)   SACRAMENTAL WINE. Wine containing not more than 24% percent of
alcohol by volume which is used for sacramental purposes.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96; Am. Ord. 964, passed 4-25-11; Am. Ord. 1018, passed
10-12-16; Am. Ord. 1032, passed 1-8-18)
§ 132.04 FURNISHING OR USING FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   A person who furnishes fraudulent identification to a person less than
21 years of age is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not
more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $100 or both.
   (B)    A person who uses fraudulent identification to purchase alcoholic
liquor, or to enter a business where alcoholic liquor is sold, is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not more than $100, or both.
   (C)   A person convicted of a violation of this section shall also be
subject to sanctions against his or her operator's or chauffeur's license as
provided in section §
132.06.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96; Am. Ord. 838, passed 2-28-00; Ord. 1018, passed 10-
12-16; Am. Ord. 1032, passed 1-8-18)
§ 132.05 AUTHORITY TO STOP VIOLATORS; APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   An officer or member of the Mount Pleasant Division of Public Safety who
witnesses a violation of §
132.03 may stop and detain the person for purposes of obtaining satisfactory
identification, seizing illegally possessed alcoholic liquor, and issuing an
appearance ticket.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96)
§ 132.06 LICENSE SANCTIONS.
   Upon the entry of a conviction or a probate court disposition for a second
or subsequent violation of §
132.03, or any state or local law substantially corresponding to §
132.03, or a violation of §
132.04, the court shall order that the Secretary of State suspend or deny the
operator's or chauffeur's license of such individual convicted of a second or
subsequent violation of §
132.03, or state or local law substantially corresponding to §
132.03, or violation of §
132.04, as provided in Section 319 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300,
MCL 257.319.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96; Am. Ord. 1032, passed 1-8-18)
§ 132.07 PRELIMINARY BREATH TEST.
   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe a person less than 21
years of age has consumed alcoholic liquor may require the person to submit to
a preliminary chemical breath analysis. A legal presumption shall be made by
the court that the person less than 21 years of age has consumed or possessed
alcoholic liquor if a preliminary chemical breath analysis or other acceptable
blood alcohol test indicates the person's blood contained .02% or more by
weight of alcohol. A person less than 21 years of age who refuses to submit to
a preliminary chemical breath test analysis as required in this section is
responsible for a civil infraction.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
§ 132.08 NOTICE TO PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.
   Upon determining that a person less than 18 years of age who is not
emancipated pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 772.1 - 772.6 allegedly consumed, possessed,
purchased or attempted to consume, possess, or purchase alcoholic liquor in
violation of § 132.03, the Mount Pleasant Division of Public Safety shall
notify the parent or parents, custodian, or guardian of the person as to the
nature of the violation if the name of a parent, guardian or custodian is
reasonably ascertainable. The notice shall be made within 48 hours of
determining that the person who allegedly violated §
132.03 is less than 18 years of age and not emancipated. The notice may be made
by any means reasonably calculated to give prompt actual notice including, but
not limited to, notice in person, by telephone, or by first class mail. If a
person less than 17 years of age is incarcerated for violating §
132.03, then his or her parents or legal guardian shall be notified
immediately.
(Ord. 789, passed 10-14-96)
CHAPTER 133: FIREWORKS
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Ignition, discharge and use of consumer fireworks
   
133.03   Possession of consumer fireworks by a minor
   
133.04   Prohibited conduct
   
133.05   Permit required for articles pyrotechnic, display fireworks
   
133.06   Manufacture of fireworks
   
133.07   Local state and federal law requirements
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. That term as defined in § 1 of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. § 57.1d, as amended.
   APA STANDARD 87-1. 2001 APA standard 87-1, standard for construction and
approval for transportation of fireworks, novelties, and theatrical
pyrotechnics, as published by the American Pyrotechnics Association of
Bethesda, Maryland.
   ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. Pyrotechnic devices for professional use that are
similar to consumer fireworks in chemical composition and construction but not
intended for consumer use, that meet the weight limits for consumer fireworks
but are not labeled as such, and that are classified as UN0431 or UN0432 under
49 CFR 172.101.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, as
amended, and that are listed in APA Standard 87-1: 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include low-impact fireworks.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. That term as defined in § 8b of the Michigan Vehicle
Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. § 257.8b, as amended.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, as provided in 27
CFR 555.11, 49 CFR 172, and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a flare
gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing visible or audible
effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation.
   HOMEMADE FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation that is not produced by a commercial manufacturer and does not
comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR parts 1500
and 1507.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined in APA standard 87-1: 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
   NFPA. The National Fire Protection Association headquartered at 1
Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts.
   NFPA 1123. The "Code of Fireworks Display," 2000 edition, as amended,
developed by NFPA.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19)
§ 133.02 IGNITION, DISCHARGE AND USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   A person may ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within the
city on the following dates at the following times:
      (1)   After 11:00 a.m. on December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
      (2)   After 11:00 a.m. on the Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding
Memorial Day until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
      (3)   After 11:00 a.m. from June 29 through July 4 and the day that the
City observes the Fourth of July until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
      (4)   After 11:00 a.m. on July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday,
until 11:45 p.m.
      (5)   After 11:00 a.m. on the Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding
Labor Day until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
   (B)   The ignition, discharge, and use of consumer fireworks within the city
are prohibited on all other days of the year.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 989, passed 8-25-14; Am. Ord. 1054, passed
11-11-19) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 POSSESSION OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS BY A MINOR.
   A minor shall not possess, ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks,
homemade fireworks, articles pyrotechnics or display fireworks on public
property, school property, church property, or the property of another person
without that organization's or person's express permission to use those
fireworks on those premises.
   (B)   A person shall not use consumer fireworks, homemade fireworks,
articles pyrotechnics, display fireworks or low-impact fireworks while under
the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination
thereof.
   (C)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks if the
environmental concerns based on the department of natural resources fire
division criteria are elevated to extreme fire conditions or if the
environmental concerns based on the department of natural resources fire
division criteria are elevated to very high for 72 consecutive hours. If a no
burning restriction is instituted under this subsection, the commanding officer
of the fire department enforcing the restriction will ensure that adequate
notice of the restriction is provided to the public.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC, DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use articles pyrotechnic or
display fireworks for a public or private display within the city, without a
permit issued by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the Director of Public Safety by the
person seeking the permit on forms provided by the Michigan Department of
Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, together with an application fee in an amount
set from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
   (C)   The Director of Public Safety shall not issue a permit unless he or
she is satisfied that the applicant has sufficient bond or insurance protection
as required in the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, 2011 PA 256, as amended,
M.C.L.A. § 28.466(2).
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 MANUFACTURE OF FIREWORKS.
   The manufacture of homemade fireworks, articles pyrotechnics, display
fireworks or low-impact fireworks is prohibited within the city limits.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19)
§ 133.07 LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAW REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing contained within this chapter shall be construed to relieve a person
of any duties and obligations imposed under any local, state or federal laws,
rules, regulations, license or permit requirements.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any section of this chapter shall be punishable with fines in
the amount of $1,000, $500 of which shall be remitted to the City of Mt.
Pleasant Police Department or other local law enforcement agency enforcing this
chapter.
(Ord. 975, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 1054, passed 11-11-19)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
   
152.   HOUSING LICENSING CODE
   
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
154.   ZONING ORDINANCES
   
155.   LAND DIVISION
   
156.   HISTORIC DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Street numbers on buildings
   
150.02   Private swimming pools
International Building Code
   
150.15   Adoption by reference
   
150.16   Building permit fees
   
150.17   Enforcement
   
150.18   Building Board of Appeals
Property Standards
   
150.30   Adoption of 2021 International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.31   Findings and purpose
   
150.32   Reserved
   
150.33   Blighted structures or buildings prohibited
   
150.34   Reserved
   
150.35   Enforcement
   
150.36   Appeals
   
150.37   Interpretation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STREET NUMBERS ON BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Display required. Every building or structure, both new and pre-
existing, shall havedisplayed the proper street address number, in accordance
with the following criteria:
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings.
         (a)   The digits used for street address numbers shall be at least
four inches in height and made of a durable and clearly visible material, which
shall contrast with the background. Two-family dwellings shall have each
individual unit clearly and permanently identified in numerical or alphabetical
order, without duplication.
         (b)   Digits shall be conspicuously placed, so that the street address
number is plainly visible from the street from which the address is derived.
Generally, digits shall be placed immediately above, on, or adjacent to, the
main entrance of each building.
         (c)   If the structure is located on the property so that the posted
numbers are not clearly readable from the roadway, due to distance or
intervening sight barriers such as, but not limited to, shrubbery, terrain
features or structures, the identification numbers shall also be posted
separate from the main structure in a fashion that is clearly readable from the
adjacent roadway. Such additional identification numbers shall be either
located centrally between the side boundaries of the property or located
immediately adjacent to the driveway providing ingress to the property, and
shall be located on the same side of the adjacent roadway as the property it
identifies.
      (2)   Multiple-family, commercial, and industrial buildings.
         (a)   All multiple-family, commercial, and industrial buildings shall
have each individual unit clearly and permanently identified in numerical or
alphabetical order, without duplication.
         (b)   If the structure is located more than 90 feet from the
centerline of the traveled portion of the adjacent roadway, the identifying
number shall be not less than six inches in height, but in any case such
numbers shall be of a size sufficiently large so that they are readable from
the centerline of the adjacent roadway by a person of normal vision. Size and
type of letters is subject to the review of the Fire Marshal and/or Building
Official and shall be submitted as a part of the building permit application.
In no case shall a certificate of occupancy be granted before letters meeting
the requirements of the Fire Marshal are in place on the buildings.
         (c)   If the structure is located on the property so that the posted
numbers are not clearly readable from the roadway, due to distance or
intervening sight barriers such as, but not limited to, shrubbery, terrain
features or structures, the identification numbers shall also be posted
separate from the main structure in a fashion that is clearly readable from the
adjacent roadway. Such additional identification numbers shall be either
located centrally between the side boundaries of the property or located
immediately adjacent to the driveway providing ingress to the property, and
shall be located on the same side of the adjacent roadway as the property it
identifies.
         (d)   Owners of buildings that are connected with or located so close
to other buildings as to prevent access between such buildings and which
require a different route of access to the rear than that to the front of the
building shall cause the correct business name and street numbers to be placed
on the rear entrance door or immediately adjacent thereto. Such names and
numbers shall be not less than four or more than six inches in height, and must
consist of standard manufactured letters and/or numerals in a color contrasting
to the background upon which they are placed. The name and number shall be
placed so as to be plainly visible and readable from the alley, service drive,
easement, parking lot or any other rear access. Generally, digits shall be
placed immediately above, on, or adjacent to, the rear entrance of each
building.
   (B)   Responsibility for compliance. If an owner, lessee or occupant of any
building or structure fails, refuses or neglects to comply with any provision
of this section, the Building Inspection Department, Fire Marshal, and/or other
department or enforcement officer(s) designated by the Commission to enforce
these provisions shall serve written notification on such person, either
personally or by mail, advising such person of the applicable provisions of the
section, the manner of noncompliance, the time to remedy the noncompliance, and
the penalty for violating this section.
(Ord. 794, passed 12-9-96) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools shall be equipped with filtration, circulation
and purification systems adequate to maintain the water in a clean and
healthful condition in accordance with the health requirements of the city, or
any other governmental body with jurisdiction.
   (B)   All discharge from private pools shall be as follows (in the order of
priority as set forth below):
      (1)   To the nearest sanitary sewer through either a temporary or
permanent connection established at the residence where the private pool is
located. If the quantity to be discharged is greater than 1,500 gallons
notification shall be given to the City of Mt Pleasant wastewater treatment
plant prior to proceeding with the discharge;
      (2)   To the surface of the ground at a rate no greater than that which
causes it to stay within the boundaries of private property on which the pool
is located, does not result in ponding, does not create a nuisance in the
right-of-way, or does not otherwise impinge on surrounding property holders; or
      (3)   If the city determines, in its sole discretion, that options (1)
and (2) are not possible and/or practical, pool water may be discharged to the
storm water sewer nearest the property on which the pool is located provided
the property owner has treated the pool water to meet federal and/or state
discharge parameters and obtained the necessary National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permits from the State of Michigan.
   (C)   Private swimming pools shall be completely enclosed with a permanent
fence with gate or gates, no less than four feet in height above the ground
level. Such fence or gate shall be designed and maintained so as to permit
access to the pool only with permission of the owner.
   (D)   The pool shall be located on its respective site in accordance with
Chapter 154.
   (E)   No lighting or electrical wiring shall overhang the surface of the
water or be located so as to present the possibility of falling into the water.
All lighting of the pool area shall be located so as not to reflect upon
adjacent property or buildings.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall apply to any basin or structure
on private property for the holding of water for swimming, diving and other
aquatic recreation; provided, however, that these regulations do not apply to
any plastic, canvas or rubber pool temporarily erected upon the ground, holding
less than 300 gallons of water.
(Ord. 1029, passed 10-23-17; Am. Ord. 1035, passed 3-12-18)
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the State Construction Code Act, Public Act 245 of 1999, the
state has adopted the International Building Code and the International
Residential Code, as amended, collectively hereinafter referred to as the
"Code."
(Ord. 779, passed 11-27-95; Am. Ord. 817, passed 11-9-98; Am. Ord. 862, passed
9-10-01; Am. Ord.864, passed 10-22-01)
§ 150.16 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Building permit fees shall be set by resolution of the Commission. The
determination of the value or valuation shall be made by the Building Official
and shall be used in computing the permit and plan checking fees and shall be
the total value of all construction work, including all finished work,
painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators,
fire extinguish systems, landscape, and other permanent work or equipment.
   (B)   Where work for which a permit is required by the Code is started or
proceeded with prior to obtaining a building permit, the building permit fees
specified above shall be doubled, but the payment of such doubled fee shall not
relieve any person from fully complying with the requirements of the Code in
the execution of the work nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-10-01)
§ 150.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of the Code. For such purposes, he or she shall have the powers of a
law enforcement officer and may issue appearance tickets in accordance with
Public Acts 366 of 1984, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c through 764.9g, or take any
other legal action necessary for enforcement of the Code.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-10-01)
§ 150.18 BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In order to determine the suitability of alternative materials and
methods of construction and to provide for reasonable interpretations of the
provisions of the Code, there shall be and hereby is created a Building Board
of Appeals consisting of six members who are qualified by experience and
training to pass upon matters pertaining to building construction. The Building
Official or his or her designee shall be an ex officio member and act as
secretary of the Building Board of Appeals. The Building Board of Appeals shall
be appointed by the Commission and shall hold office at its pleasure. The
Building Board of Appeals shall also have the right to interpret and hear
appeals of such other regulations as the Commission may determine by
resolution.
   (B)   The Building Board of Appeals shall adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for conducting its investigation and shall render all decisions and
findings in writing to the Building Official with a duplicate copy to the
appellant and may recommend to the Commission such new legislation as is
consistent therewith.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-10-01)
PROPERTY STANDARDS
§ 150.30 ADOPTION OF 2021 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the 2021 International Property
Maintenance Code issued by International Code Council, Inc., except those
sections otherwise deleted or amended by the City Code.
(Ord. 1062, passed 11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 150.31 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings. The city finds and declares that poorly maintained
properties may have a negative impact on the community, lower property values,
adversely impact the economy, increase crime, and damage residents’ well-being
and connection to their community.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for
the maintenance of properties in the city and prevent, reduce, or eliminate
blight or potential blight through regulation and enforcement.
(Ord. 1062, passed 11-23-20)
§ 150.32 RESERVED.
§ 150.33 BLIGHTED STRUCTURES OR BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted or
abandoned structure in the city.
(Ord. 1062, passed 11-23-20) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 RESERVED.
§ 150.35 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the Code Official finds a violation of this subchapter, the Code
Official shall, before issuing a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §
150.99, issue a notice and order directed to the responsible party stating the
date of the Code Official’s determination, the name of the Code Official, the
nature of the violation, and the time within which the correction shall be
completed.
   (B)   A violation, which is determined by the Code Official to constitute a
hazard to health to the occupants or the community as a whole, shall be ordered
corrected within the shortest reasonable time, and the responsible party shall
give notice of having begun compliance to the Code Official within 48 hours.
Inoperable vehicles shall have ten days to become compliant. Trash and rubbish
shall have six days to become complaint. All other violations shall be
corrected within 30 calendar days from the date of notice.
   (C)   At the end of the period of time the Code Official has allowed for the
correction of the violation notice as provided, the Code Official shall re-
inspect the premises and if the Code Official determines that the conditions
requiring corrections set forth in the notice have not been corrected, and if
the responsible party has not appealed the notice pursuant to §
150.36, the Code Official may issue a municipal civil infraction citation
pursuant to §
150.99. A municipal civil infraction citation may also be issued after an
unsuccessful appeal.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, notices shall be served in the same
manner prescribed in §
152.013.
(Ord. 1062, passed 11-23-20) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 APPEALS.
   Any person issued a notice or municipal civil infraction pursuant to this
subchapter may appeal to the Building, Fire, and Sanitary Sewer Board of
Appeals or its designee.
(Ord. 1062, passed 11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 150.37 INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit conduct or
conditions expressly permitted under the city’s zoning ordinance (
Chapter 154).
(Ord. 1062, passed 11-23-20)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. It is unlawful to disobey, neglect, or
refuse to comply with any provision of this chapter or the codes established in
this chapter. A violation of this chapter or the codes is a municipal civil
infraction. Each day the violation continues shall be a separate offense.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, violators
shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First violation = $50;
      (2)   Second violation = $100;
      (3)   Each subsequent violation = $250.
   (B)   Other remedies. The foregoing sanctions are in addition to the city’s
right to seek other appropriate and proper remedies, including actions in law
or equity.
(Ord. 794, passed 12-9-96; Am. Ord. 862, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 1062, passed
11-23-20)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal civil infractions, see
Chapter 36
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
151.01   Chapter in compliance with state and federal regulations
   
151.02   Flood-resistant construction
   
151.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
   
151.04   Disclaimer of liability
§ 151.01 CHAPTER IN COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is adopted in compliance with the National Flood Insurance Act
of 1968, 42 U.S.C. § 4001 et seq., and all related state and federal
regulations.
(Ord. 984, passed 1-13-14)
§ 151.02 FLOOD-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION.
   As part of its responsibilities under the Stille-Derossett-Hale-Single State
Construction Code, Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the city
will enforce the requirements pertaining to flood-resistant construction in
Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code as well as all other flood-related
provisions throughout the Michigan Building Code and Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 984, passed 1-13-14)
§ 151.03 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has produced a Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) dated February 5, 2014 and entitled “Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) Report and Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for Isabella County,
Michigan (All Jurisdictions).” FEMA has also produced (a) Flood Insurance Rate
Map(s) dated February 5, 2014, and marked as panel number(s) 26073C: 0193D,
0194D 0306D, 0307D, 0308D, 0309D and 0330D. These documents are adopted by
reference and are declared to be a part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan Building
Code and to provide content to the “food hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of
the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 984, passed 1-13-14)
§ 151.04 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   By taking on the responsibility of administering and enforcing the Michigan
Building Code and the Michigan Residential Code, the city is not in any way
ensuring or implying that a particular development will be free from flooding
or damage. Moreover, neither this chapter nor
Chapter 150 shall be construed as a waiver of governmental immunity.
(Ord. 984, passed 1-13-14)
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING LICENSING CODE
Section
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Scope
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Responsibilities of owners
   
152.006   Responsibilities of occupants
   
152.007   Referenced codes and standards
   
152.008   Housing license application; fee
   
152.009   Temporary license
   
152.010   Enforcement
   
152.011   Housing Board of Appeals
   
152.012   Determination and notice of violation
   
152.013   Notice
 
   
152.999   Penalty
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This code shall be known as the “Housing Licensing Code” and may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as “this Code.”
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum requirements for the health,
safety and welfare of the general public and the owners and occupants of
certain residential buildings.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07)
§ 152.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   Application. This Code shall apply to all rented or leased buildings,
including manufactured homes, or any portions thereof, that are used or
intended to be used for human habitation as a two-family dwelling, a multi-
family dwelling, a rooming dwelling, a boarding dwelling, a lodging dwelling,
or a hotel or motel. This Code shall also apply to single-family dwellings
which are leased or rented by the owner for more than 180 days during any 12-
month period. In addition, if a building that is licensed under this Code but
does not comply with all of the provisions of the Code is thereafter unlicensed
for one year or more, the building must thereafter comply with this Code before
it acquires a new license.
   (B)   Alterations. Existing licensed buildings that are subject to this
Code, but that do not comply with this Code shall, at the time of alteration or
repair, and with respect to this new work, be altered or repaired to conform to
this Code, the City Building Code (
Chapter 150 of the Code of Ordinances), and the laws of the state of Michigan.
   (C)   Relocation. Buildings which are moved or relocated shall be considered
new buildings and shall comply with all of the requirements of this Code.
   (D)   Exception. This Code shall not apply to a single-family dwelling that
is leased or rented for less than 180 days annually if the owner of the single-
family dwelling receives a principle home exemption from the city, and the
owner resides at least 180 days in the dwelling during the annual time period
in which the dwelling is leased or rented.
   (E)   Severability. If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or a violation of the
laws of the State of Michigan, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Code.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 966, passed 4-25-11)
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions in Chapter 2 of the 2021 Edition of the International
Property Maintenance Code are adopted as part of this Code. The following
definitions shall also apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   DESIGNATED AGENT. A person, firm or corporation acting on behalf of,
representing, or caring for the property on behalf of the owner.
   DWELLING. A building used in whole or part for human habitation. DWELLINGS
are divided into the following categories:
      (1)   DWELLING, BOARDING. A rooming dwelling where meals are provided.
      (2)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more
dwelling units.
      (3)   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building used exclusively or designed for
one-family occupancy.
      (4)   DWELLING, REGISTERED STUDENT ORGANIZATION. A building or rooming
dwelling used to house three or more unrelated individuals, which is owned,
rented, leased or purchased by or on behalf of a student organization
registered by the Central Michigan University Office of Student Life, in the
name of:
         (a)   The registered student organization;
         (b)   A housing corporation or partnership affiliated with the
registered organization; or
         (c)   One or more members of the registered student organizations
(RSO) when membership in the RSO is required to live at the rooming dwelling
and/or the rooming dwelling is identified by signs or other symbols as being
affiliated with the RSO.
      (5)   DWELLING, ROOMING. A building containing one or more dwelling units
that is approved for use by three or more persons, not meeting the definition
of a family, per dwelling unit. This is also known as a rooming house.
      (6)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used exclusively or designed for
the occupancy of two individual families living independently of each other.
   FAMILY or FUNCTIONAL FAMILY. As defined under the city’s Zoning Ordinance.
   FIRE OFFICIAL. The duly appointed city Fire Official or a regularly
authorized assistant.
   GUEST ROOM. Any room or rooms used, or intended to be used by a guest which
is a person sharing a rooming or dwelling unit in a non-permanent status for
not more than 72 hours, for sleeping purposes. Every 100 square feet of
superficial floor area in a dormitory is a guest room.
   HOTEL. An establishment where short-term lodging is offered for compensation
and lodging units are accessed from interior hallways.
   MOTEL. An establishment where short-term lodging is offered for compensation
and one or more lodging units are accessed by exterior doors opening directly
to the exterior parking areas, passageways, or the outdoors.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 986, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 1017, passed
10-12-16; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 152.005 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   Every owner shall comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   At the time a new tenant occupies a vacant dwelling unit, the new
tenant shall be provided with a clean, healthful and safe dwelling unit, free
of visible mold and mildew.
   (B)   Maintain the public or shared areas of a dwelling or the premises in a
clean, safe, and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Maintain in good repair every dwelling and premises and all parts
thereof, including, but not limited to, plumbing, heating, ventilating, and
electrical systems, and the interiors and exteriors of dwellings and dwelling
units.
   (D)   Maintain all fixtures, furniture, and furnishings that are furnished
by the owner in a safe condition and in good repair.
   (E)   Display in a conspicuous place in the common way of the dwelling or
dwelling unit a copy of the housing license or attach a copy of the then
current housing license to the lease at the time of execution of the lease, or
include the following provision in the lease:
      “The City of Mt. Pleasant regulates rental properties within the city.
Your Landlord will provide you a copy of the current housing license for your
property without charge upon your written request to the Landlord. You may also
acquire a copy of the current housing license for your property by contacting
the Mt. Pleasant Fire Department at 989-779-5100.”
   (F)   Include within the terms of every written lease the provisions set
forth in §
96.04.
   (G)   Cooperate with and assist the city in the enforcement of §
96.04.
   (H)   An owner or agent shall not allow a dwelling unit to be occupied by
more persons than such dwelling unit is licensed for or allow any portion of
the dwelling unit to be occupied in such a manner that any of the provisions of
this code are violated.
   (I)   Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations which are
caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be executed
and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's installation instructions.
   (J)   Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this code or a
previous regulation or code under which the building was constructed, altered
or repaired shall be maintained in good working order. No owner, operator or
occupant shall cause any service, facility, equipment or utility which is
required by applicable law to be removed from or shut off for any occupied
dwelling or dwelling unit, except for such temporary interruption as necessary
while repairs or alterations are in progress. The requirements of this code are
not intended to provide the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection
and safety systems and devices in existing buildings.
   (K)   All water leaks shall be properly repaired.
   (L)   All locations within the building for which the landlord is
responsible for under the lease shall be kept free of visible mold and mildew.
   (M)   Comply with other applicable provisions of this code.
   (N)   Owners shall provide tenants with all applicable city requirements for
vehicle parking.
   (O)   Pay all utilities, taxes, and special assessments, as applicable.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23; Am. Ord. 1100, passed
9-9-24) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.006 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   Every occupant shall cooperate with and assist the owner to keep and
maintain the building, dwelling unit and premises to meet the minimum
requirements of this Code. In addition:
   (A)   Every occupant shall notify the owner or his/her agent in writing of
any water leaks or of any condition believed to be in violation of this Code
which directly affects the dwelling unit within a reasonable time of discovery
of any leaks or condition.
   (B)   Every occupant may at any time notify the Fire Official of any
condition believed to be in violation of this Code.
   (C)   Every occupant shall properly use all facilities, including bathroom
and kitchen facilities, and shall maintain them in a manner that is
sufficiently clean and sanitary so as not to place other occupants within that
building at risk for safety or health reasons.
   (D)   An occupant shall not sublet or allow any portion of the dwelling unit
to be occupied in such a manner that any of the provisions of this Code are
violated.
   (E)   Every occupant shall properly use the designated parking area provided
by the applicable lease and shall not park across sidewalks or lawns.
   (F)   Occupants of any dwelling unit shall be responsible jointly and/ or
severally for any violation of this section of this Code.
   (G)   Every occupant shall assist the owner and cooperate with the city in
compliance with and enforcement of the §
96.04.
   (H)   Occupants shall not place any article of furniture and/or an appliance
manufactured for and intended primarily for indoor use out of doors, in yards,
on open porches, or patios.
   (I)   No occupant of any dwelling unit or building shall cause intentional
destruction nor allow the intentional destruction by others to the dwelling
unit or building or any part thereof.
   (J)   No occupant shall access, nor permit access by others, to the rooftop
of any structure. Exception: access by property maintenance personnel shall be
permitted for necessary repairs.
   (K)   Every occupant shall properly use all facilities and maintain them in
a clean and sanitary manner free of excessive accumulations of waste product or
clutter, unwashed clothing and unclean dishware or cookware. All areas for
which the tenant is responsible for under the lease, shall be kept free of
visible mold or mildew.
   (L)   No occupant of any dwelling unit or building shall allow any refuse,
debris or other substance to accumulate in the dwelling unit or building or any
other area, which said occupant has use or possession thereof, which puts other
occupants of that building at risk for health or safety reasons.
   (M)   Occupants shall comply with all applicable parking requirements of the
city including, but not limited to parking permit requirements.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.007 REFERENCED CODES AND STANDARDS.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the 2021 International Property
Maintenance Code issued by International Code Council, Inc., except those
sections otherwise deleted or amended below and otherwise in this Code:
   Add   301.5 New rental properties. Each dwelling added to the housing
licensing program after the adoption date of this Code, shall be considered as
new construction with respect to fire resistance rate construction, fire
protection systems and means of egress and shall comply with all sections of
this Code and all other applicable codes.
   Amend   302.4 Weeds. The regulation of noxious weeds shall be enforced in
accordance with Section 96.05 of the Mt. Pleasant Code of Ordinances, entitled
Lawn Maintenance; Height; Removal of Noxious Weeds.
   Amend   304.14 Insect screens. Every door, window and other outside opening
required for ventilation (see § 403.1) of habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas or any area where products to be included or utilized
in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored,
shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16
mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging screen or storm door shall
have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   Add    308.4 Garbage facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
compliance with the City of Mt. Pleasant zoning requirements and Chapter 50 of
the City Code of Ordinances.
   Add   308.5 Occupant responsibility. Occupants of all dwellings are required
to comply with Chapter 50 of the City Code of Ordinances.
   Amend   404.3 Minimum ceiling heights for rentals added to the housing
licensing program after the adoption date of this code. Habitable spaces,
hallways, corridors, laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable
basement areas may be approved to be less than 7 feet if the following
conditions are met:
            1.   Ceiling height shall not be less than 6 feet 8 inches and the
ceiling must be at least 3 feet 6 inches in width at that height across the
length of the room.   Add    404.3.1 Elevated sleeping surface. Lofts, bunk
beds or other elevated sleeping surfaces shall be installed not closer than 30
inches from the top of the sleeping surface to the ceiling of the room. Lofts,
bunk beds or other elevated sleeping surfaces shall not block any opening or
window that is a required means of egress by any applicable code.
   Add   702.5 Emergency escape and rescue openings for each dwelling added to
the housing licensing program after the adoption date of this Code shall be
provided and installed in accordance with the Michigan Residential Building
Code.
   Add   703.3 Under-stair protection. Enclosed accessible spaces under stairs
shall have the walls, under stair surface and any soffit protected on the
enclosed side with minimum 1/2 inch gypsum wallboard, taped and finished. Use
of under stair storage areas, which pose difficulty for compliance with this
Code, shall be discontinued and permanently sealed from future use. Under stair
mechanical areas, which pose difficulty for compliance with this Code, may be
protected by the installation of domestic water sprinkler head(s) to completely
protect the area.
   Add   703.4 Separation required. Each dwelling subject to this Code with
attached garage or storage areas shall have a fire separation extending the
full width and height of the common wall(s) with the living portion of the
structure. All separations shall be designed and installed in accordance with
the Michigan Residential Building Code. If the living space of the structure is
located above a garage space, the common floor/ceiling between the two spaces
shall be separated in accordance with the garage separation section of this and
all applicable codes. Fire resistance-rated floor-ceiling and wall assemblies
shall extend to and be tight against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies
shall extend tight to and be sealed to the underside of the roof sheathing.
   Add   704.5.3 Early detection with elevated sleeping surfaces. Sleeping
rooms or areas with elevated sleeping surfaces such as bunk beds or lofts shall
require the installation of a smoke detector in said sleeping room. It shall be
the responsibility of the provider of the loft or bunk to provide a smoke
detector that is sealed and has a non-removable, non-rechargeable battery that
is capable of operating the smoke alarm in the normal condition for a life of
at least 10 years. This smoke detector must be mounted on the ceiling surface
in accordance with manufacturers’ requirements.
   Amend   704.6 Smoke alarms. Each dwelling added to the housing licensing
program after the adoption date of this Code shall have smoke alarms installed
in accordance with the Michigan Residential Building Code. Dwellings licensed
on or before the adoption date of the Code shall comply with State of Michigan
law as amended for the Michigan Building Code (R408.30546), the Michigan
Residential Building Code (R408.30546) and the Michigan Rehabilitation Code
(R408.30566). In addition, existing buildings constructed after November 6,
1974, that do not comply with state law shall conform to state law when battery
operated smoke alarms expire. Finally, when any new smoke alarm is installed in
any dwelling licensed under this Code after this date, the smoke alarm shall
comply with the following provisions:
            704.6.2.3 A smoke alarm shall be sealed and have a non-removable,
non-rechargeable battery which will last ten (10) years.
            704.6.3 A smoke alarm shall receive its primary power from the
building wiring (provided that such wiring is served from a commercial source)
and shall be equipped with a back-up battery.(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am.
Ord. 1017, passed 10-12-16; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008 HOUSING LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall occupy a dwelling subject to this code unless a
current, unrevoked housing license has been issued by the Fire Official, or
designee, for the specific named dwelling.
   (B)   No person shall operate or permit occupancy of a dwelling subject to
this code unless a current, unrevoked housing license has been issued by the
Fire Official, or designee, for the specific dwelling in the name of the owner.
   (C)   No person who manages a property on behalf of an owner shall permit
occupancy of a dwelling subject to this code unless a current, unrevoked
housing license has been issued by the Fire Official, or designee, for the
specific dwelling in the name of the owner.
   (D)   The following shall apply to the issuance of any housing license:
      (1)   Application for a housing license or for renewal shall be made in
writing by the owner to the Fire Official, on forms furnished by the Fire
Official, and shall be accompanied by an inspection fee established pursuant to
division (E) below. The owner's signature is required on the form.
         (a)   If after inspection(s) by the Fire Official, or designee, the
dwelling is found to be in accordance with all provisions of this code, and all
applicable fees have been paid, a housing license will be issued.
         (b)   An initial housing license shall be valid for a period of one
year from the date of issuance (unless sooner revoked). Any successive renewal
of the housing license shall be valid for a one-year period from the date of
expiration of the initial or any successive license renewal, except the Fire
Official is authorized, for the initial housing license issued for a dwelling,
to issue the housing license for a period of up to one year and nine months for
the purpose of adjusting the time when such housing license expires.
      (2)   A violation of this code shall not prevent the issuance of a
housing license, unless the Fire Official determines existing conditions
constitute either:
         (a)   A hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of those who may
occupy the dwelling; or
         (b)   A hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of the community.
      (3)   Applicants shall designate in writing with each application or
renewal, an agent upon whom service or notice under this code and service or
process for violation of this code may be made in the absence of the owner. The
agent designated must reside in the county to receive such notice. This
designated agent must give written approval for the use of his/her name as the
designated agent. A violation of this section is a misdemeanor municipal civil
infraction.
      (4)   Every person holding a housing license shall provide in the written
lease a provision that the tenant or roomer will allow the Fire Official, or
his/her designee, access to the dwelling and/or dwelling unit for the purpose
of inspection required as a prerequisite to granting or renewal of a housing
license, or for the purpose of investigating a complaint.
      (5)   No housing license is transferable to another dwelling, and each
person issued a housing license shall give notice in writing to the Fire
Official within seven days after having conveyed title, or assigned,
transferred, or otherwise disposed of legal control of any licensed dwelling.
Such notice shall include the name and address of persons succeeding to the
ownership or control of such dwelling, and to whom the housing license is to be
transferred. Within ten days of any transfer of ownership, the assigned shall
comply with provision (D)(3) above.
      (6)   Application for the renewal of a housing license shall be made at
least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the existing housing license.
Late applications will be charged a late fee.
      (7)   A record of all housing licenses issued shall be kept on file in
the offices of the Fire Official, and copies will be furnished upon request.
The Commission shall set this fee by resolution from time to time.
   (E)   Housing license fees shall be set by resolution of the Commission.
   (F)   Failure, neglect, or refusal to pay fees, charges, taxes, assessments,
or other delinquent amounts required to be paid to the city may be grounds to
deny, suspend, or revoke a housing license.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 966, passed 4-25-11; Am. Ord. 1022, passed
3-27-17; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23; Am. Ord. 1100, passed 9-9-24) Penalty,
see §
152.999
§ 152.009 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   The Fire Official may issue a temporary housing license for all or part of a
dwelling in the process of erection or alteration if the dwelling or part
thereof to be occupied complies with the provisions of this Code. No temporary
housing license may be issued for longer than six months, and no temporary
housing license shall be effective more than five days after the erection or
alteration of the dwelling is completed.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 152.010 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Official shall enforce the provisions of this Code.(Ord. 927,
passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 152.011 HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation. A Housing Board of Appeals is hereby created to provide a
reasonable interpretation of the provisions of this Code and to give relief
where unnecessary hardship would result from carrying out the strict letter of
this Code. The duty of the Board shall be to consider appeals from decisions of
officials charged with the enforcement of this Code and to determine in
particular cases whether any deviation from the strict enforcement of this Code
will violate the intent of this Code or jeopardize the public health, safety
and welfare.
   (B)   Membership and appointment. The Building Fire and Sanitary Sewer Board
of Appeals shall perform the duties of the Housing Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Public meetings.
      (1)   The Housing Board of Appeals shall meet in a fixed place, and all
meetings shall be open to the public.
      (2)   When an appeal has been properly filed and is to be considered, the
Housing Board of Appeals shall give at least ten days' notice of the time and
place of the hearing in a daily newspaper of general circulation in the city.
The Housing Board of Appeals shall also give five days' notice by personal
service or by mail to the applicant, and Fire Official, and, when an appeal
applies to the condition or appearance of the outside of a building or to
conduct by an occupant which the Housing Board of Appeals reasonably believes
may adversely impact neighboring properties, to any person to whom real
property is assessed that is within 100 feet of the premises of the appeal, and
such notice will be addressed to the respective owners at the address given on
the last assessment roll. Any party may appear at such hearings in person or by
agent.
   (D)   Rules, minutes and records. The Housing Board of Appeals shall adopt
its owns rules or procedure and keep a record of its proceedings, showing the
action of the Board. Such records shall be considered public records.
   (E)   Appeal cases. Any person affected by any notice and order which has
been issued in connection with the enforcement of this Code who has not
otherwise been offered a hearing under this Code may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Housing Board of Appeals, provided
that such person shall file in the office of the Fire Official a written
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth the name, address, and phone
number of the petitioner and a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing.
Petition shall be filed within ten days after the day the notice of order is
served. Upon receipt of such a petition, the Fire Official shall set a time for
the hearing before the Housing Board of Appeals and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof.
   (F)   Fee for appeal cases. A fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer before
filing a petition as set forth in division (E) above. The Commission shall set
this fee by resolution.
   (G)   Stay of order. Any determination made by the Fire Official which is
appealed to the Housing Board of Appeals under division (E) above shall be
stayed until a disposition of the appeals is made by the Housing Board of
Appeals.
   (H)   Action of Board. After a hearing, the Housing Board of Appeals shall
sustain, modify, or withdraw the notice and order depending upon its findings.
If it clearly appears that, by reason of special conditions, undue hardship
would result from the strict application of any section of this Code, the
Housing Board of Appeals may permit a variance from the mandatory provisions
thereof in such a manner that the public safety shall be secured, substantial
justice done, and the spirit of the provisions of this Code upheld. All
decisions to permit a variance under this section shall be by a majority vote
of the total membership of the Board, excluding the alternate member.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 152.012 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If upon inspection the Fire Official finds a violation of this Code,
he/she shall issue a notice and order directed to the owner of record in
accordance with the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   A violation which is determined by the Fire Official to constitute a
hazard to health or the occupants or the community as a whole, shall be ordered
corrected within the shortest reasonable time, and notice of having begun
compliance shall be given to the Fire Official by the owner within 48 hours.
All other violations shall be corrected within 30 calendar days from the date
of notice.
   (C)   At the end of the period of time the Fire Official has allowed for the
correction of any violation notice as provided, the Fire Official shall
reinspect the licensed dwelling, and if he/she determines that the conditions
requiring corrections set forth in the notice sent have not been corrected, the
Fire Official may issue an order notifying the owner of the continuing
violation(s) and schedule a hearing to suspend the housing license under the
procedure as outlined in the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code.
   (D)   Any person whose housing license under this section has been suspended
shall be entitled to an appeal to the Housing Board of Appeals. If no appeal is
properly presented within 21 days following the issuance of the order of
suspension, the housing license shall be revoked except that if prior to the
revocation of the housing license any person whose housing license has been
ordered suspended may request reinspection, upon a showing that the violation
or violations cited in the notice have been corrected.
   (E)   If, upon reinspection pursuant to the request of the person whose
housing license has been ordered suspended but not yet revoked, the Fire
Official finds the dwelling in connection with which notice was issued is now
in compliance with this Code and with applicable rules and regulations issued
pursuant thereto, he/she shall reinstate the housing license. A request for
reinspection shall not extend the suspension period.
   (F)   If an appeal to the Housing Board of Appeals is taken, and if the
Housing Board of Appeals does not reverse the decision, the housing license
shall be revoked within ten days following the denial of the appeal by the
Housing Board of Appeals.
   (G)   If an owner or occupant fails to comply with an order of suspension
which has not been appealed, or which the Housing Board of Appeals has
sustained, the Fire Official or his/her agent may take action to abate or
enjoin the violation and enforce the provisions of this Code.
   (H)   When an uncorrected violation creates an imminent danger to the health
and safety of the occupants of the dwelling or premises, the city may file an
action seeking a preliminary injunction or other temporary relief appropriate
to remove such danger during the pendency of any action.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 152.013 NOTICE.
   (A)   Service and terms. All notices shall be in writing and shall be deemed
given when one of the following is done:
      (1)   Personal service.
      (2)   A copy of such notice is sent by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   If no address so appears nor is known to the Fire Official, a copy
of the notice shall be mailed to the owner at the address of the building or
structure and a copy of the notice and order shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the building or structure.
      (4)   Service by certified mail in the manner herein provided shall be
effective on the date of mailing; proof of service of the notices and the
manner of such service shall be made by affidavit sworn to by the person
affecting such service, declaring time, date, and the manner in which the
service was made. The affidavit, together with any receipt for mailing and any
receipt card returned in acknowledgment of receipt by certified mail, shall be
affixed to the copy of the notice retained by the Fire Official.
   (B)   Notice. The failure of any person to receive notice as provided for
above shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this Code.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in the sections above, any person violating a
provision of this Code shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
and subject to a fine set by the court.
   (B)   Fines for permitting occupancy of unlicensed dwellings, in violation
of divisions (B) and (C) of §
152.008, shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense   $50.
      (2)   Second offense, or offense by an individual who knew or should have
known about the city's housing licensing requirements. An individual who owns,
manages, or is an employee or principal of an entity that owns or manages a
licensed rental dwelling in the city is presumed to know about the city's
licensing requirements $2,500.
      (3)   Each subsequent offense $5,000.
(Ord. 927, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11; Am. Ord. 1022, passed
3-27-17; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 8-14-23)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Short title
   
153.02   Purposes
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Compliance required
   
153.05   Minimum requirements; greater restrictions
   
153.06   Review fees
   
153.07   Variance
Subdivision Procedure
   
153.20   Introduction
   
153.21   Initial plat investigation
   
153.22   Preliminary plat (stage 1)
   
153.23   Preliminary plat (stage 2)
   
153.24   Final plat
Design Layout Standards
   
153.35   Development guides
   
153.36   Streets
   
153.37   Blocks
   
153.38   Lots
   
153.39   Natural features
   
153.40   Flood plains
Improvements
   
153.50   General provisions
   
153.51   Streets
   
153.52   Utilities
   
153.53   Sidewalks, public ways and driveways
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the “City of Mount
Pleasant Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.”
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the orderly growth and
harmonious development of the community; to secure adequate traffic circulation
through coordinated street systems with relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions, and public facilities; to achieve individual property
lots of maximum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for water
supply, drainage and sanitary sewerage, and other health requirements; to
secure adequate provisions for recreational areas, school sites, and other
public facilities; and to provide logical procedures for the achievement of
these purposes.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   BLOCK. Property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and railroad
right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live  stream; or between any of
the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Mount Pleasant.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Mount Pleasant.
    DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS The staff engineer of the municipality.
   EASEMENT. A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege, or
advantage is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation, or some
particular person or part of the public for specific uses and purposes, and
which shall be designated a “public” or “private” easement, depending on the
nature of the user.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Commission of the City of Mount Pleasant, Isabella
County, Michigan.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
culverts, bridges, and other additions to the natural state of land which
increases its value, utility or habitability.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land which is described and
fixed in a recorded plat. (M.C.L.A. § 560.102)
   MAJOR STREETS or THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan which sets
forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive land use plan for the municipality, including
graphic and written proposals indicating the general locations recommended for
the streets, parks, schools, public buildings, zoning districts, and all
physical developments of the municipality, including any unit or part of such
plan separately adopted, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof
adopted by the Planning Commission.
   MUNICIPAL PLANNER or PLANNER. The City of Mount Pleasant.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or association.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)    PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 1). A map indicating the proposed layout
of the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate basis for review
and to meet the requirements and procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (2)    PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 2). A map showing all requisite details of
a proposed subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration, prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Act.
      (3)    FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the Preliminary Plat (Stage 2) of the subdivision
prepared in conformance with the requirements of the Subdivision Act and this
chapter and suitable for recording by the County Register of Deeds.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Act.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination of any of them, which may hold any ownership, or interest in land,
whether recorded or not.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for public
use and made available for public use and acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. All persons, firms, corporations, copartnerships, or
municipal or other public authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam,
telephone, sewer, or other services of a similar nature. (M.C.L.A. § 560.102)
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of a pedestrian
access through residential acres, and located so as to connect to two or more
streets, or a street and a public land parcel.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary to the Planning Commission.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway; or, a
street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved
by official action; or, a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds. A street includes the land between
the street right-of-way lines whether improved, or unimproved, and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
      (1)    MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street of great continuity which
is intended to serve as a large volume traffic way for both the immediate
municipality area and region beyond, and may be designated on the city's Major
Thoroughfare Plan, as a major thoroughfare, parkway, expressway, or equivalent
term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the street
plan.
      (2)    COLLECTOR STREET (SECONDARY THOROUGHFARE). A street used primarily
to carry traffic from minor streets to major thoroughfares.
      (3)    MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties.
      (4)    MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street paralleling and adjacent to
a major thoroughfare which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (5)    BOULEVARD STREET. A street developed to 2 two-lane, one-way
pavements, separated by a median.
      (6)    TURN-AROUND. A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turn-around.
      (7)    CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A minor street of short length, having one end
open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a
vehicular turn-around.
   SUBDIVISION ACT. The Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 238 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq, as amended.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose
of sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development, where the
act of division creates five or more parcels of land, each of which is ten
acres or less in area; or five or more parcels of land, each of which is ten
acres or less in area are created by successive divisions within a period of
ten years. SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION does not include a property transfer
between two or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken from one parcel is
added to an adjacent parcel; and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a
building site unless the parcel conforms to the requirements of the Subdivision
Act or the requirements of an applicable local ordinance. (M.C.L.A. § 560.102)
   SURVEYOR. Either a land surveyor who is registered in this state as a
registered land surveyor or a civil engineer who is registered in the state as
a registered professional engineer.
   ZONING ORDINANCES. The City of Mount Pleasant Zoning Ordinances.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.04 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All subdivision or project improvements within the municipality installed in
public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way or public easements, or
under the ultimate jurisdiction of the municipality, shall comply with all of
the provisions and requirements of this chapter or any other related ordinance.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.05 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety and general welfare of the city. These regulations are not intended to
repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any manner interfere with existing regulations
or laws of the city nor conflict with any statutes of the state or the county
except that these regulations shall prevail in cases where these regulations
impose a greater restriction than is provided by existing statutes, laws or
regulations.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.06 REVIEW FEES.
   Preliminary and final plat review fees, planning fees, engineering fees,
inspection fees, water and sewer connection charges and other applicable
development charges shall be paid by the proprietor as provided for by
ordinance or by resolution of the governing body. All fees shall be paid to the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.07 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Variance for hardship. The governing body may authorize a variance
from these regulations when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from
strict compliance and provided the variance does not pertain to requirements of
the Zoning Ordinances. In granting any variance, the governing body shall
prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the
public interest. In making its findings, as required herein below, the
governing body shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land
and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside
or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be
granted unless the governing body or Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his/her land.
      (2)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner.
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said
property is situated.
   (B)   Variance for complete community. The governing body may authorize a
variance from these regulations in case of a plat request for a planned unit
development where such development is permitted by the Zoning Ordinances.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE
§ 153.20 INTRODUCTION.
   The preparation of a subdivision for platting may be preceded by an initial
investigation and shall go through two phases: Preliminary Plat (Stages 1 and
2) and Final Plat, all in accordance with the procedure as follows in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.21 INITIAL PLAT INVESTIGATION.
   Prior to the preparation of preliminary plat, it is suggested that the
proprietor meet informally with the municipal departments concerned to
investigate the procedures and standards of the municipality with reference to
this Subdivision Regulations Ordinance and with the proposals of the master
plan as they affect the area in which the proposed subdivision is located. The
proprietor should concern himself/herself with the following factors:
   (A)   The proprietor should secure a copy of the Zoning Ordinances,
Subdivision Regulations, engineering specifications, and other similar
ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and improvement of land so
as to make himself/herself aware of the requirements of the municipality.
   (B)   The area for the proposed subdivision should be properly zoned for the
intended use.
   (C)   An investigation of adequacy of existing schools and the adequacy of
public open spaces including parks and playgrounds to serve the proposed
subdivision should be made by the proprietor.
   (D)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision with respect to major
thoroughfares and plans for widening of thoroughfares, should be investigated
by the proprietor.
   (E)   Standards for sewage disposal, water supply and drainage of the
municipality should be investigated by the proprietor and their availability to
the proposed subdivision determined.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.22 PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 1).
   The procedure, under this stage 1, for preparation and submittal of a
preliminary plat of the land area to be subdivided shall be as follows:
   (A)   Identification and description. The preliminary plat (stage 1) shall
include:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision.
      (2)   Location by section, town, and range, or by other legal
description.
      (3)   Names and addresses of the proprietor, owner proprietor, and the
planner, designer, engineer or surveyor who designed the subdivision layout.
The proprietor shall also indicate his/her ownership interest in the land.
      (4)   Scale of plat, 1 inch = 100 feet as minimum acceptable scale.
      (5)   Date, northpoint.
   (B)   Preparation. The preliminary plat (stage 1) should be drawn to scale
and show the arrangement of lots, blocks, and streets. Dimensions of all lots
shall be shown, but may be approximated. It is the intent of this chapter that
preliminary plat (stage 1) need not be done in precisely engineered plans but
be only in sufficient detail to permit planning review. At this stage, the
proprietor should expect that the Planning Commission may require major
alterations to be made in the plat if it is found necessary. It is not
necessary that the preliminary plat (stage 1) be prepared by and sealed by a
surveyor; provided, however, that the outside dimensions of the plat shall be
based upon an accurate boundary survey prepared by a surveyor or detailed by
existing available information from previous surveys acceptable by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Existing conditions. The preliminary plat (stage 1) shall include:
      (1)   An overall area map at a scale of not less than 1" = 1,000€ showing
the relationship of the subdivision to its surroundings within one-half mile
such as section lines or major streets or collector streets shall be provided.
      (2)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, section or corporation lines
within or adjacent to the tract and overall property dimensions.
      (3)   Property lines and owner's names of adjacent tracts of subdivided
and unsubdivided land shown in relation to the tract being proposed for
subdivision, including those of areas across abutting roads.
      (4)   Location, widths and names of existing or prior platted streets and
private streets and private or public easements within, on or adjacent to the
tract being proposed for subdivision, including those located across abutting
roads.
      (5)   Location of existing sewers, water mains, storm drains and other
underground facilities within or adjacent to the tract being proposed for
subdivision.
      (6)   Topography drawn as contours with an interval of two feet.
Topography to be based on U.S.G.S. datum.
   (D)   Proposed conditions. The preliminary plat (stage 1) shall include:
      (1)   Layout of streets indicating proposed street names, right-of-way
widths, and connections with adjoining platted streets and also the widths and
location of alleys, easements and public walkways.
      (2)   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots, including
building setback lines showing dimensions.
      (3)   Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside
for public use or for the use of property owners in the subdivision.
      (4)   An indication of the ownership, and existing and proposed use of
any parcels identified as “excepted” on the preliminary plat. If the proprietor
has an interest or owns any parcel so identified as “excepted”, the preliminary
plat shall indicate how this property could be developed in accordance with the
requirements of the existing zoning district in which it is located and with an
acceptable relationship to layout of the proposed preliminary plat.
      (5)   An indication of the system proposed for sewage by a method
approved by the Director of Public Works.
      (6)   An indication of system proposed for water supply by a method
approved by the Director of Public Works.
      (7)   An indication of storm drainage proposed by a method approved by
the Director of Public Works and, if involving county drains, the proposed
method of drainage shall be acceptable to the County Drain Commissioner.
      (8)   In the case where the proprietor wishes to subdivide a given area,
but wishes to begin with only a portion of the total area, the preliminary plat
shall include the proposed layout subdivided first shall be clearly
superimposed upon the overall plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of
development which the proprietor intends to follow. Each subsequent plat shall
follow the same procedure until the entire area controlled by the proprietor is
subdivided.
   (E)   Filing and review.
      (1)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat (stage 1) of the proposed
subdivision together with written application in triplicate, shall be submitted
to the Secretary of the Planning Commission. Application forms are available
from the secretary of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Submittal with the Secretary shall be at least 21 days prior to the
regular Commission meeting (which meeting shall be considered as the date of
filing) at which the proprietor will be scheduled to appear. Should any of the
data required in this section of this chapter be omitted, the secretary shall
notify the proprietor of the additional data required and Commission action
delayed until the required data is received. The Commission shall act on the
preliminary plat (stage 1) within 30 days after the date of filing unless the
proprietor agrees to an extension of time in writing.
      (3)   The Secretary shall transmit a copy of the preliminary plat to the
Director of Public Works and the Municipal Planner for their technical review
and recommendation and transmit a copy to the school board having jurisdiction
in the area where the plat is located for informational purposes.
      (4)   The Commission shall review all details of the proposed subdivision
within the framework of the Zoning Ordinances within the various elements of
the Master Plan and within the standards of this Subdivision Regulations
Ordinance.
      (5)   The Commission shall approve conditionally, disapprove, or approve
the preliminary plat.
         (a)   Should the approval be conditional approval, the Commission
shall record the reasons in the minutes of the regular meeting and said
conditions shall be satisfied by the proprietor within a time set by the
Commission or the plat shall be rejected.
         (b)   Should the Commission disapprove the preliminary plat, it should
record the reasons in the minutes of the regular meeting.
         (c)   Should the Commission find that all conditions have been
satisfactorily met, it may give approval to the preliminary plat and distribute
copies of same as follows:
            1.   Return one copy to the proprietor;
            2.   Retain one copy which shall become a matter of permanent
record in the Commission files;
            3.   Forward one copy to the school board having jurisdiction in
the area concerned; and
            4.   File the remaining copies with the City Clerk's office.
   (F)   Action of Commission. The action of the Commission shall become the
action of the governing body unless the governing body shall decide upon a
hearing or unless, within ten days after the approval or rejection of the
preliminary plat, the proprietor shall file with the City Clerk a written
request for hearing before the governing body.
   (G)   Hearing; rejection or approval. Such hearing, if requested, shall be
held by the governing body at its next regular meeting occurring not less than
ten days after filing of said request. Following said hearing, the governing
body shall approve or reject the preliminary plat in accordance with § 112 of
the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 560.112.
   (H)   Duration of approval. Approval of the preliminary plat (stage 1) shall
be effective for a period of nine months. Should a preliminary plat (stage 2)
not be submitted for tentative approval within this time limit, the preliminary
plat (stage 1) must again be submitted for approval unless an extension is
applied for by the proprietor and such request is granted in writing by the
Planning Commission or governing body; whichever body gave approval to the
preliminary plat (stage 1).
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.23 PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 2).
   The procedure for the preparation and review of a preliminary plat (stage 2)
requires tentative and final approval as follows:
   (A)   Preliminary plat (stage 2) tentative approval.
      (1)   Filing.
         (a)   The preliminary plat shall comply with the provisions of the
Subdivision Control Act.
         (b)   The preliminary plat (stage 2) shall conform substantially to
the preliminary plat (stage 1) as approved and it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which the proprietor proposes to
record and develop at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms
to this chapter. The preliminary plat (stage 2) shall show the actual
geometries and dimensions or show the approximate lot dimensions which shall
not be decreased on the final plat. This submission shall include profile
drawings drawn at a scale of not less than 1" = 100' horizontally and 1" = 5'
vertically showing the following:
            1.   Proposed street centerline profiles;
            2.   Proposed sanitary sewer profiles;
            3.   Proposed storm sewer profiles.
         (c)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
together with written application in triplicate including proposed deed
restrictions if any, shall be submitted to the Secretary at least ten days
prior to the regular Commission meeting (which meeting shall be considered as
the date of filing).
         (d)   The Secretary shall check the proposed plat for completeness.
Should any of the data required in the Subdivision Act be omitted, the
Secretary shall be directed to inform the proprietor of the data required, and
that the application will be delayed until the required data is received.
         (e)   The Secretary shall transmit a copy of the valid and complete
preliminary plat to the Director of Public Works for technical review and
recommendation.
      (2)   Planning Commission review - tentative approval.
         (a)   The Secretary shall place the preliminary plat on the next
agenda, at which meeting the proprietor will be scheduled to appear. The
Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plat within 30 days after the
date of filing unless the proprietor agrees to an extension, in writing, of the
time required for approval by the governing body and Planning Commission.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to send a notice by
registered or certified mail to the owners of land immediately adjoining the
property to be platted of the presentment of the preliminary plat and the time
and place of the meeting of the Commission to consider said preliminary plat;
said notice shall be sent not less than five days before the date fixed
therefor.
         (c)   The preliminary plat (stage 2) shall be reviewed by the Director
of Public Works as to conformity with the approved preliminary plat (stage 1)
as to plans for utilities and other improvements.
         (d)   The Director of Public Works shall notify the Commission of his/
her recommendation for either approval or rejection of the preliminary plat.
         (e)   The preliminary plat (stage 2) documents shall be reviewed by
the Commission as to conformity with the approved preliminary plat (stage 1)
and compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
         (f)   Should the Commission find that the preliminary plat (stage 2)
is in satisfactory conformance with the preliminary plat (stage 1) and with the
requirements of this chapter, it shall approve same and notify the governing
body of this action inits official minutes and forward the same, together with
all accompanying data, to the governing body for review.
         (g)   Should the Commission find that the preliminary plat (stage 2)
does not conform satisfactorily to the previously approved preliminary plat
(stage 1) or with the requirements of this chapter, and that it is not
acceptable, they shall record the reason in their official minutes and forward
same together with all accompanying data to the governing body; and recommend
that the governing body disapprove the preliminary plat until the objections
causing disapproval have been changed to meet the approval of the Commission.
      (3)   Governing body - tentative approval.
         (a)   The governing body will not review a preliminary plat (stage 2)
until it has received the review and recommendations of the Commission.
Following the receipt of such recommendations, the governing body shall
consider the preliminary plat at such meeting that the matter is placed on the
regularly scheduled agenda. The governing body shall take action on the
preliminary plat (stage 2) within 60 days of the date of initial filing of the
plat with the Secretary, as required in § 153.23(A)(1)(b) above.
         (b)   Should the governing body tentatively approve the preliminary
plat, they shall record their approval on the plat and return copy to the
proprietor.
         (c)   Tentative approval shall not constitute final approval of the
preliminary plat.
         (d)   Tentative approval of the governing body shall be effective for
a period of 12 months. Should the preliminary plat in whole or in part not be
submitted for final approval within this time limit, the preliminary plat must
again be submitted to the Commission and governing body for approval unless an
governing body for approval unless an extension is applied for by the
proprietor, and such request is granted in writing by the governing body.
   (B)   Preliminary plat (stage 2) review by governing body - final approval.
      (1)   The proprietor shall file a valid preliminary plat with the City
Clerk together with a certified list of all authorities required for approval
in Sections 112 to 119 of the Subdivision Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §
      (2)   The governing body shall take action on the preliminary plat within
20 days of the submission of all necessary approved plats.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat conforms substantially to the plat
tentatively approved by the governing body and meets all conditions laid down
for tentative approval, the governing body shall give final approval to the
preliminary plat.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall promptly notify the proprietor of approval or
rejection in writing; if rejected, reasons shall be given.
      (5)   Final approval shall be effective for a period of two years from
the date of final approval. The two-year period may be extended if applied for
by the proprietor and granted by the governing body in writing.
      (6)   No installation or construction of any improvements shall be made
before the preliminary plat has received final approval of the governing body,
engineering plans have been approved by the Director of Public Works, receipt
of the state health department permits and any deposits required under §§
153.50 through
153.53 of this chapter, have been received by the municipality.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.24 FINAL PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation and review of a final plat shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Preparation.
      (1)   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of the Subdivision
Act.
      (2)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat
as approved and it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which the proprietor proposed to record and develop at the time; provided,
however that such portion conforms to this Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.
      (3)   The proprietor shall submit as evidence of title, an abstract of
title certified to date with the written opinion of an attorney-at-law thereon,
or at the option of the proprietor, a policy of title insurance for examination
in order to ascertain as to whether or not the proper parties have signed the
plat.
      (4)   File statement regarding utilities required in §
153.37(D) of this chapter.
   (B)   Final plat review.
      (1)   Original copies of the plat as required by the State Department of
the Treasury and three paper prints of the final plat shall be filed by the
proprietor with the City Clerk and shall deposit such sums of money as the
governing body may require herein or by other ordinances or resolutions.
      (2)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the Director of Public Works as
to compliance with the approved preliminary plat (stage 2) as to plans for
utilities and other improvements.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works shall notify the governing body of
his/her recommendation for either approval or rejection of the final plat.
      (4)   The governing body shall review all recommendations and take action
on the final plat within 20 days of its date of filing.
      (5)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the governing body, the
subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Subdivision
Act. The three prints of the final plat shall be forwarded; one to the City
Clerk, one to the Planning Commission, and one to the Building Department. The
original copies shall be forwarded to the Clerk of the County Plat Board.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
DESIGN LAYOUT STANDARDS
§ 153.35 DEVELOPMENT GUIDES.
   The subdivision design layout standards set forth under this subchapter are
development guides for the assistance of the proprietor. All final plans must
be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
§ 153.36 STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-sections as set forth in this subchapter and
other conditions set forth by the governing body.
   (A)   Location and arrangement.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements of
the master plan and shall be considered in relation to the existing and planned
major thoroughfares and collector streets, and such part shall be platted in
the location and width indicated on such plan.
      (2)   The street layout shall provide for continuation of the collector
thoroughfares in the adjoining subdivisions or the proper projection of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Commission.
      (3)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
      (4)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare, the Commission may require marginal access
streets, reverse frontage, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
      (5)   Should a proposed subdivision border on a railroad, expressway or
other limited access highway right-of-way, the Commission may require the
location of a street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-
of-way at a distance suitable for the development of any use of the intervening
land. Such distances shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum
distance required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (6)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where absolutely essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Commission finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is developed. Wherever there exists adjacent to the tract to be
subdivided, a dedicated or platted and recorded half street, the other half
shall be platted.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths. Street right-of-way widths shall conform to at
least the following minimum requirements:
Street Type Right-of-Way Widths
Street Type                          Right-of-Way Widths
Major thoroughfare                   100', or in conformance with the Major
                                     Thoroughfare Plan of the Municipality
Collector streets                    86'
(secondary thoroughfares)
Industrial service streets           66'
Industrial collector streets         86'
Multiple-family residential streets  66'
(where platted)
Minor (single-family residential)    66'
streets
Alley                                20'
Cul-de-Sac streets - turn arounds
Industrial                           110'
Residential and others               110'
Length for cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 600 feet.
   (C)   Street geometrics. Standards for maximum and minimum street grades,
vertical and horizontal street curves and sight distances shall be approved by
the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   Street intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible to 90 degrees. Curved streets, intersecting with major
thoroughfares and collector thoroughfares, shall do so with a tangent section
of centerline 50 feet in length measured from the right-of-way line of the
major or collector thoroughfare.
   (E)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet
shall be avoided.
   (F)   Acceleration-deceleration lanes. Streets which intersect with major or
secondary thoroughfares shall be provided with paved acceleration and
deceleration lanes and passing lanes. Such lanes shall be provided in keeping
with the standards approved by the Director of Public Works for this type of
improvement.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75; Am. Ord. 669, passed 4-4-88)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.37 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Sizes.
      (1)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,400 feet in length, except where, in the
opinion of the Commission, conditions may justify a greater distance.
      (2)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the layout
and shall be suited to the intended layout.
   (B)   Public walkways.
      (1)   Location of public walkways or crosswalks may be required by the
Commission to obtain satisfactory pedestrian access to public or private
facilities or where blocks exceed 900 feet in length.
      (2)   Public walkways shall be in the nature of an easement for this
purpose.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided. Such
easements shall give access to every lot, park or public grounds. Such
easements shall be a total of not less than 15 feet wide, 7½ feet from each
parcel.
      (2)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone and electric
company easements should be sought from all of the utility companies serving
the area. It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to submit copies of
the preliminary plat (stage 2) to all appropriate public utility agencies.
      (3)   Easements three feet in width shall be provided where needed along
lot lines so as to provide for street light dropouts. Prior to the approval of
the final plat for a proposed subdivision, a statement shall be obtained from
the appropriate public utility indicating that easements have been provided
along specific lots. A notation shall be made on the final plat indicating:
“The lot lines between lots (indicating lot number) are subject to street light
dropouts rights granted to the (name of utility company.)”
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.38 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and widths shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the Zoning Ordinances for the district in which the subdivision
is proposed.
      (3)   Building setback lines shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the Zoning Ordinances.
      (4)   Corner lots in residential subdivisions shall be platted at least
ten feet wider than the minimum width permitted by the Zoning Ordinances.
      (5)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth-
to-width ratio of 3 to 1 shall normally be considered a maximum.
      (6)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, setbacks and other requirements in accordance with the
Zoning Ordinances.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a street.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
lines where possible.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or collector
thoroughfares, where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible to
attain, shall be platted with reverse frontage lots, or with side lot lines
parallel to the major traffic streets, or shall be platted with extra depth to
permit greater distances between building and such trafficway.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.39 NATURAL FEATURES.
   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, and similar community assets that will add
attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved. The preservation of
drainage and natural stream channels must be considered by the proprietor and
the dedication and provision of adequate barriers where appropriate, shall be
required.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.40 FLOOD PLAINS.
   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in part within the flood plain of a river, stream, creek or lake, or any other
areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by storm water shall require
specific compliance with the Subdivision Act and its review by the Water
Resources Commission of the Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.50 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The improvements set forth under this section are to be considered as
the minimum acceptable standard. All those improvements for which standards are
not specifically set forth shall have said standards set by ordinance or
published rules of the governing body. All improvements must meet the approval
of the governing body and all improvements must be provided for prior to final
plat approval by the governing body.
   (B)   Prior to the undertaking of any improvements, the proprietor shall
either petition for and receive conformation of a special assessment district
for completion of the improvements or deposit with the City Clerk cash, a
certified check or irrevocable bank letter of credit, whichever the proprietor
selects, or a surety bond acceptable to the governing body to insure faithful
completion of all improvements within the time specified. The amount of deposit
shall be set by the governing body based on an estimate by the Director of
Public Works. The governing body shall release funds for the payment of work as
it is completed and approved by the municipality.
   (C)   Construction of improvement may be staged in accordance with standards
set by the Director of Public Works, provided satisfactory financing of said
improvement is approved by the governing body.
   (D)   Improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance with
the standards and requirements established in this subchapter and/or any other
such standards and requirements which may from time to time be established by
ordinance, resolution or published rules of the municipality.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.51 STREETS.
   All streets and appurtenances thereto shall be constructed in accordance
with details and specifications approved by the governing body.
   (A)   Street pavement widths standards. In accordance with details and
specifications prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Curbs and gutters. In accordance with details and specifications
prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Roadway pavements. In accordance with details and specifications
prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.52 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Requirements for underground wiring. All lines for telephones,
electric, television and other similar service distributed by wire or cable to
be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area, except for major
thoroughfare right-of-way. Such conduits or cables shall be placed within
private easements provided to such service companies by the proprietor or
within dedicated public ways, provided only that overhead lines may be
permitted upon written recommendation of the Director of Public Works, Planner,
Commission, and the approval of the governing body at the time of final plat
approval where it is determined that safety, general welfare, plat design, and
character of the subdivision. All such facilities placed in dedicated public
ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground utilities.
All such facilities approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission. All
drainage and underground utility installations which traverse privately owned
property shall be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (B)   Storm drainage system and other drainage improvements. Per plans
approved by the Director of Public Works. Where county drains are involved, a
letter or document of approval from the County Commissioner must be submitted
by the proprietor.
   (C)   Sewerage system. Per plans approved by the Director of Public Works
and the requirements of the County Health Board or other appropriate public
health authority.
   (D)   Water supply. Water distribution system per plans approved by the
Director of Public Works and in conformance with the regulations of Michigan
Department of Health relating to municipal water supplies.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.53 SIDEWALKS, PUBLIC WAYS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided on all sides of road rights-of-
way adjacent to and within the subdivision being developed. In those instances
where no good purpose would be served, the governing body may waive this
requirement or may defer sidewalk construction on all or a portion of the lots
being developed until a building permit is issued therefore. No occupancy
permit shall be issued for any structure until sidewalks required by this
section are constructed. All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with
standards and specifications prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Public walkways. Walkways shall be at least 12 feet in width. Planting
pockets shall be provided in public walkways for tree and shrub planting. The
planting plan and surface treatment shall meet the approval of the Commission.
Fences or other improvements may also be required if the Commission or
governing body determines they are necessary to protect the adjacent property
owners.
   (C)   Driveways. Driveways between the street and property lines shall be
“hard surfaced” before occupancy permit for each structure will be issued.
Driveways shall be constructed with either asphalt or concrete in accordance
with standards and specifications prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, persons, firm or corporation or anyone acting in behalf of said
person, persons, firm or corporation, violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution or in default of
the payment thereof, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the
court. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. 492, passed 3-17-75; Am. Ord. 963, passed 3-24-11)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING ORDINANCES
Section
   
154.000   Adoption by reference
§ 154.000 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinances of the city, being Ordinance No. 1034, passed 1-22-18,
as amended, which is published as a separate document, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full
herein.
Reference:
   Zoning Ordinances and Zoning Map may be viewed at: http://www.mt-
pleasant.org/planning
CHAPTER 155: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Purpose
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Prior approval requirements for land divisions
   
155.05   Application for land division approval
   
155.06   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval
   
155.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
155.08   Consequences of compliance and consequences of noncompliance with land
division approval requirement
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “City of Mount Pleasant Land
Division Ordinance”.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (1967 PA 288, as amended, formerly known as the Subdivision
Control Act), to prevent the creation of parcels of property which do not
comply with applicable ordinances and said Act, to minimize potential boundary
disputes, to maintain orderly development of the community, and otherwise
provide for the health, safety and welfare of the residents and property owners
of the city by establishing reasonable standards for prior review and approval
of land divisions within the city.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
Cross reference:
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 153
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land whether
recorded or not.
   CITY LAND DIVISION BOARD. Members to be the City Assessor, the Director of
Planning and Community Development and the Director of Public Works.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results
in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of Sections 108 and 109 of the State Land Division
Act.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent; provided
that all resulting parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and utilities
from existing public roads through existing adequate roads or easements, or
through areas owned by the owner of the parcel that can provide such access.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a governmental lot containing not less
than 30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The City Commission of the City of Mount Pleasant.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
§ 155.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND DIVISIONS.
   Land in the city shall not be divided without prior review and approval of
the City Land Division Board in accordance with this chapter and the State Land
Division Act; provided that the following shall be exempted from this
requirement:
   (A)   A completed application form on such form as may be provided by the
city.
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
city's zoning ordinance and the State Land Division Act.
   (C)   An exempt split as defined in the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
§ 155.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the City Assessor for
review before making any division either by deed, land contract, lease for more
than one year, or for building development:
   (A)   A completed application form on such form as may be provided by the
city.
   (B)   A survey map of the land proposed to be divided, prepared pursuant to
the survey map requirements of 1970 PA 132, as amended (M.C.L.A.§ 54.211) by a
land surveyor licensed by the State of Michigan, and showing the dimensions and
legal descriptions of the existing parcel and the parcels proposed to be
created by the division(s), the location or all existing structures and other
land improvements, and accessibility of the parcels for vehicular traffic and
utilities from existing public roads.
      (1)   In lieu of such a survey map, at the applicant's option, the
applicant may waive the 30 day statutory requirement for a decision on the
application until such survey map and legal description are filed with the
city, and submit a tentative preliminary parcel map drawn to scale of not less
than that provided for on the application form including an accurate legal
description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary lines,
dimensions, and the accessibility of each division from existing or proposed
public roads for automobile traffic and public utilities, for preliminary
review, approval, and/or denial by the City of Mount Pleasant Land Division
Board prior to a final application under §
155.05.
      (2)   The City Land Division Board may waive the survey map requirement
where the foregoing tentative parcel map is deemed to contain adequate
information to approve a proposed land division considering the size, simple
divisions, and the undeveloped character of the territory within which the
proposed divisions are located. An accurate legal description of all the
proposed divisions, however, shall at all times be required.
   (C)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met. The City Land Division Board shall create and follow an
appropriate checklist.
   (D)   The history and specifications since March 31, 1997, of any previous
divisions of land proposed to be divided and its parent parcel or tract as
defined by Section 102 of the State Land Division Act.
   (E)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer.
   (F)   Unless a division creates a parcel which is acknowledged and declared
to be “not buildable” under §
155.05(G), all divisions must result in “buildable” parcels containing
sufficient “buildable” area outside of unbuildable wetlands, flood plains and
other areas where buildings are prohibited therefrom, and with sufficient area
to comply with all required setback provisions, minimum floor areas, off-street
parking spaces, on-site sewage disposal and water well locations (where public
water and sewer service is not available), and maximum allowed area coverage of
buildings and structures on the site.
   (G)   A statement showing all the parcels to be created by the proposed land
division(s) fully comply with the applicable lot (parcel), yard and area
requirements of the city zoning ordinance, including, but not limited to,
minimum lot (parcel) frontage/width, minimum road frontage, minimum lot
(parcel) area, minimum lot width to depth ratio, and maximum lot (parcel)
coverage and minimum set-backs for existing building(s)/structures.
      (1)   Notwithstanding disqualification from approval pursuant to this
chapter, a proposed land division which does not fully comply with the
applicable lot, yard, accessibility and area requirements of the city zoning
ordinance or this chapter may be approved in any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Where the applicant fails to provide a statement required by §
155.05(G), any such parcel shall be designated as “not buildable” in the city
records, and, to the extent permitted by law, shall not thereafter be the
subject of a request to the Zoning Board of Appeals for variance relief from
the applicable lot and/or area requirements, and shall not, by itself, be
developed with any building or above ground structure exceeding four feet in
height.
         (b)   The City Land Division Board shall have the right to waive this
requirement if it is persuaded that the substantive requirements to the city
zoning ordinance will be met by the proposed land division(s).
   (H)   The fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of the
City Commission for land division reviews pursuant to this chapter to cover the
costs of review of the application and administration of this chapter and the
State Land Division Act.
Cross reference:
   Zoning ordinances, see Chapter 154
§ 155.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed land division application package, the
City Assessor shall forthwith submit the same to the Land Division Board for
decision. The Land Division Board shall approve, approve with reasonable
conditions to assure compliance with applicable ordinances and the protection
of public health, safety and general welfare, or disapprove the land division
applied for within 30 days after receipt of the application package conforming
to this chapter's requirements, and shall promptly notify the applicant of the
Land Division Board's decision(s) and the reason(s) for any denial. If the
application package does not conform to this chapter's requirements and the
State Land Division Act, the Land Division Board shall return the same to the
applicant for completion and refiling in accordance with this chapter and the
State Land Division Act.
   (B)   A denial of a land division application shall be reviewed by the City
Commission upon a written request by the applicant filed with the City Clerk
within 30 days of the date of the notice of denial. The written request for
review shall contain a concise statement of the reasons the applicant believes
the denial was improper. The standards to be applied by the City Commission
shall be those listed in §
155.07. The City Land Division Board shall present to the City Commission a
concise written statement of the reasons for the denial at least ten days prior
to the Commission's review. A copy shall be mailed to the applicant. The
decision of the City Commission shall be final.
   (C)   A decision approving a land division is effective for one year, after
which it shall be considered revoked unless within such period a document is
recorded with the Isabella County Register of Deeds office and filed with the
City Assessor accomplishing the land division(s) or transfer.
   (D)   The City Land Division Board shall maintain an official record of all
approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
§ 155.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   A proposed land division shall be approved if the following criteria are
met:
   (A)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of the
State Land Division Act and this chapter.
   (B)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, to a public road for public
utilities and emergency and other vehicles not less than the requirements of
the applicable zoning ordinance, major thoroughfare plan, road ordinance, or
this chapter. In determining adequacy of accessibility, any ordinance standards
applicable to plats shall also apply as a minimum standard whenever a parcel or
tract is proposed to be divided to create four or more parcels.
   (C)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel, 10 acres or less, created
by the division does not exceed a four to one ratio exclusive of access roads,
easements, or non-buildable parcels created under §
155.05(G) of this chapter and parcels added to contiguous parcels that result
in all involved parcels complying with said ratio.
   (D)   The permissible depth of a parcel created by a land division shall be
measured within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-of-
way to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of
commencement of the measurement.
   (E)   The permissible minimum width shall be as defined in the applicable
zoning ordinance at the time the application is considered.
   (F)   (1)   If applicant fails to fulfill the requirements of §
155.05(G), the applicant must execute and record an affidavit in a form
acceptable to the city stating that the parcels created by this split are in
conformance with this chapter but are not necessarily in compliance with any
other city ordinances.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to record an affidavit with each
granting of a split that the parcels created by such division(s) are in
compliance with this chapter but are not necessarily in compliance with any
other city ordinances.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
§ 155.08 CONSEQUENCES OF COMPLIANCE AND CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH LAND
DIVISION APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The granting of a split under this chapter does not ensure compliance
with any other city ordinances or State of Michigan statutes.
   (B)   To the extent permitted by law, any parcel created in noncompliance
with this chapter shall not be eligible for any building permits, or zoning
approvals, such as special land use approval or site plan approval. In
addition, violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties
and enforcement action set forth in §
155.99, and as may otherwise be provided by law.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to civil action seeking invalidation of the land division and
appropriate injunctive or other relief.
(Ord. 848, passed 10-9-00)
CHAPTER 156: HISTORIC DISTRICTS
Section
   
156.01   Short title
   
156.02   Statement of purpose
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Establishing historic districts
   
156.05   Establishing additional, modifying, or eliminating historic districts
   
156.06   This Historic District Commission
   
156.07   Historic District Commission meetings, recordkeeping and rules of
procedure
   
156.08   Delegation of minor classes of work
   
156.09   Ordinary maintenance
   
156.10   Review by the Commission
   
156.11   Design review standards and guidelines
   
156.12   Permit applications
   
156.13   Denials
   
156.14   Notice to proceed
   
156.15   Appeal of a Historic District Commission decision
   
156.16   Work without a permit
   
156.17   Demolition by neglect
   
156.18   Review of work in proposed districts
   
156.19   Emergency moratorium
   
156.20   Acceptance of gifts or grants
   
156.21   Acquisition of historic resources
   
156.22   Civil action
§ 156.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Historic District Ordinance of the City
of Mt. Pleasant, Michigan.”
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving districts that
reflect elements of its history, architecture, archaeology, engineering, or
culture.
   (B)   Stabilize and improve property values in each district and surrounding
areas.
   (C)   Foster civic beauty.
   (D)   Strengthen the local economy.
   (E)   Promote the use of historic districts for the education, pleasure, and
welfare of the citizens of the city and of the state.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Historic Districts Act, 1970 PA 169, M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201a et
seq., as amended.
   ALTERATION. Work that changes the detail of a resource, but does not change
its basic size or shape.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The written approval of a permit application
for work that is appropriate and does not adversely affect a resource.
   COMMISSION. The Historic District Commission of the City of Mt. Pleasant.
   COMMITTEE. A historic district study committee appointed by the City
Commission under §
156.04.
   DEMOLITION.  The razing or destruction, whether entirely or in part, of a
resource, and includes, but is not limited to, demolition by neglect.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT. Maintaining, repairing, or securing a resource in an
inadequate manner that results in the deterioration of one of its exterior
features or in the loss of its structural integrity.
   DENIAL.  The written rejection of a permit application for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. The area, or group of areas, not necessarily having
contiguous boundaries, that contains one resource or a group of resources that
are related by history, architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION.  The identification, evaluation, establishment, and
protection of resources significant in history, architecture, archaeology,
engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE.  A publicly or privately owned building, structure, site,
object, feature or open space that is significant in the history, architecture,
archaeology, engineering, or culture of the city, state, or the United States.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED.  Written permission to issue a permit for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource, pursuant to a finding
under the Act.
   OMA. The Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., as
amended.
   OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land, a naturally landscaped area, or a formal or
man-made landscaped area that provides a connective link or buffer between
other resources.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Keeping a resource unimpaired and in good condition
through ongoing minor intervention, undertaken from time to time, in its
exterior condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not change the external
appearance of the resource, except through the elimination of the usual and
expected effects of weathering. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not constitute WORK
for the purposes of this chapter.
   PROPOSED HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, or group of areas, not necessarily
having contiguous boundaries, that has delineated boundaries and that is under
review by a committee or a standing committee for the purpose of making a
recommendation as to whether it should be established as a historic district or
added to an established historic district.
   REPAIR.  To restore a decayed or damaged resource to good or sound condition
by any process. A REPAIR that changes the external appearance of a resource
constitutes WORK for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESOURCE. One or more publicly or privately owned historic or non-historic
buildings, structures, sites, objects, features, or open spaces located within
a historic district.
   WORK. Construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation, or
demolition.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.04 ESTABLISHING HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city may by ordinance establish one or more historic districts,
and historic districts already created as of the date of this chapter pursuant
to now-repealed provisions of
Chapter 154 shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   Before establishing a historic district, the City Commission shall
appoint a Historic District Study Committee. A majority of the persons
appointed to the Committee shall have a clearly demonstrated interest in or
knowledge of historic preservation. The Committee shall contain representation
of at least one member appointed from one or more duly organized local historic
preservation organizations. The Committee shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Conduct a photographic inventory of resources within each proposed
historic district following procedures established by the State Historic
Preservation Office of the Michigan Historical Center.
      (2)   Conduct basic research of each proposed historic district and
historic resources located within that district.
      (3)   Determine the total number of historic and non-historic resources
within a proposed historic district and the percentage of historic resources of
that total. In evaluating the significance of historic resources, the Committee
shall be guided by the selection criteria for evaluation issued by the United
States Secretary of the Interior for inclusion of resources in the National
Register of Historic Places, as set forth in 36 C.F.R. part 60, and criteria
established or approved by the State Historic Preservation Office of the
Michigan Historical Center.
      (4)   Prepare a preliminary Committee report that addresses, at a
minimum, all of the following:
         (a)   The charge of the Committee.
         (b)   The composition of Committee membership.
         (c)   The historic district studied.
         (d)   The boundaries of each proposed historic district, in writing
and on maps.
         (e)   The history of each proposed historic district.
         (f)   The significance of each district as a whole, as well as a
sufficient number of its individual resources to fully represent the variety of
resources found within the district, relative to the evaluation criteria.
         (g)   Transmit copies of the preliminary report for review and
recommendations to the local planning body, the State Historic Preservation
Office of the Michigan Historical Center, the Michigan Historical Commission,
and the State Historic Preservation Review Board.
   (C)   Not less than 60 calendar days after the transmittal of the
preliminary report, the Committee shall hold a public hearing in compliance
with the OMA. Written notice shall be mailed by first class mail, not less than
14 calendar days prior to the hearing, to the owners of properties within the
proposed historic district, as listed on the most current tax rolls.
   (D)   After the date of the public hearing, the Committee and the City
Commission have not more than one year, unless otherwise authorized by the City
Commission, to take the following actions:
      (1)   The Committee shall prepare and submit a final report with its
recommendations and the recommendations, if any, of the local planning body to
the City Commission, as to the establishment of a historic district. If the
recommendation is to establish a historic district, the final report shall
include a draft of the proposed ordinance.
      (2)   After receiving a final report that recommends the establishment of
a historic district, the City Commission, at its discretion, may introduce and
pass or reject an ordinance. If the City Commission passes an ordinance
establishing one or more historic districts, the city shall file a copy of the
ordinance, including a legal description of the property or properties located
within the historic district, with the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.05 ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL, MODIFYING, OR ELIMINATING HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city may at any time establish by ordinance additional historic
districts, including proposed districts previously considered and rejected, may
modify boundaries of an existing historic district, or may eliminate an
existing historic district. Before establishing, modifying, or eliminating a
historic district, a committee appointed by the City Commission shall follow
the procedures as stated in the Act. To conduct these activities, the City
Commission may retain the initial committee, establish a standing committee, or
establish a committee to consider only specific proposed districts and then be
dissolved. The committee shall consider any previously written committee
reports pertinent to the proposed action.
   (B)   In considering elimination of a historic district, a committee shall
follow the procedures set forth in the Act for the issuance of a preliminary
report, holding a public hearing, and issuing a final report but with the
intent of showing one or more of the following:
      (1)   The historic district has lost those physical characteristics that
enabled the establishment of the district.
      (2)   The historic district was not significant in the way previously
defined.
      (3)   The historic district was established pursuant to defective
procedures.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.06 THE HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Commission may establish by ordinance a commission to be
called a Historic District Commission. The Historic District Commission may be
established at any time, but not later than the time the first historic
district is established. Each member of the Historic District Commission shall
reside within the city limits. The Historic District Commission shall consist
of seven members. Members shall be appointed by the City Commission. A majority
of the members shall have a clearly demonstrated interest in or knowledge of
historic preservation. Members shall be appointed for a term of three years,
except the initial appointments of three members for a term of two years, and
two members for a term of one year. Subsequent appointments shall be for three-
year terms. Members shall be eligible for reappointment. In the event of a
vacancy on the Historic District Commission, interim appointments shall be made
by the City Commission within 60 calendar days to complete the unexpired term
of such position. Two members shall be appointed from a list submitted by duly
organized local historic preservation organizations. If such a person is
available for appointment, one member shall be an architect who has two years
of architectural experience or who is duly registered in the state.
   (B)   The Historic District Commission shall administer the historic
districts established or existing pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The City Commission may prescribe powers and duties of the Historic
District Commission, in addition to those prescribed in this chapter, that
foster historic preservation activities, projects, and programs in the local
unit.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.07 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION MEETINGS, RECORDKEEPING AND RULES OF
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission shall meet at least biannually or
more frequently at the call of the Commission.
   (B)   The business that the Historic District Commission may perform shall
be conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the OMA. Public notice
of the date, time, and place of the meeting shall be given in the manner
required by the OMA. A meeting agenda shall be part of the notice and shall
include a listing of each permit application to be reviewed or considered by
the Historic District Commission.
   (C)   The Historic District Commission shall keep a record of its
resolutions, proceedings and actions.
   (D)   The Historic District Commission shall adopt its own rules of
procedure and shall adopt design review standards and guidelines to carry out
its duties under this act.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.08 DELEGATION OF MINOR CLASSES OF WORK.
   The Historic District Commission may delegate the issuance of Certificates
of Appropriateness for specified minor classes of work to its staff, or to
another delegated authority. The Historic District Commission shall provide to
its delegated authority specific written standards for issuing Certificates of
Appropriateness under this section. The Historic District Commission shall
review the Certificates of Appropriateness issued by the delegate, on at least
a quarterly basis, to determine whether or not the delegated responsibilities
should be continued.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.09 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance
or repair of a resource within a historic district or to prevent work on any
resource under a permit issued by the Building Official or other duly delegated
authority before the chapter was enacted.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.10 REVIEW BY THE COMMISSION.
   The Historic District Commission shall review and act upon only exterior
features of a resource, and shall not review and act upon interior
arrangements, unless specifically authorized to do so by the City Commission or
unless interior work will cause visible change to the exterior of the resource.
The Historic District Commission shall not disapprove an application due to
considerations not prescribed in the Act.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.11 DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In reviewing plans, the Historic District Commission shall follow the
U.S. Secretary of Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and guidelines for
rehabilitating historic buildings as set forth in 36 C.F.R. part 67. Design
review standards and guidelines that address special design characteristics of
historic districts administered by the Historic District Commission may be
followed if they are equivalent in guidance to the Secretary of Interior’s
Standards and guidelines, and are established or approved by the State Historic
Preservation Office of the Michigan Historical Center.
   (B)   In reviewing plans, the Historic District Commission shall also
consider all of the following:
      (1)   The historic or architectural value and significance of the
resource and its relationship to the historic value of the surrounding area.
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of the resource to
the rest of the resource and to the surrounding area.
      (3)   The general compatibility of the design, arrangement, texture, and
materials proposed to be used.
      (4)   Other factors, such as aesthetic value, that the Historic District
Commission finds relevant.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.12 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before any work affecting the exterior
appearance of a resource is performed within a historic district. The person,
individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization, institution, or
agency of government proposing to do that work shall file an application for a
permit with the Building Official. Upon receipt of a complete application, the
inspector of buildings shall immediately refer the application, along with all
required supporting materials that make the application complete, to the
Historic District Commission. A permit shall not be issued and proposed work
shall not proceed until the Historic District Commission has acted on the
application by issuing a Certificate of Appropriateness or a Notice to Proceed
as prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The Historic District Commission shall file Certificates of
Appropriateness, Notices to Proceed, and denials of applications for permits
with the Building Official. A permit shall not be issued until the Historic
District Commission has acted as prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   If an application is for work that will adversely affect the exterior
of a resource the Historic District Commission considers valuable to the city,
the state, or the nation, and the Historic District Commission determines that
the alteration or loss of that resource will adversely affect the public
purpose of the city, state, or nation, the Commission shall attempt to
establish with the owner of the resource an economically feasible plan for the
preservation of the resource.
   (D)   The failure of the Historic District Commission to act on an
application within 60 calendar days after the date a complete application is
filed with the Historic District Commission, unless an extension is agreed upon
in writing by the applicant and the Historic District Commission, shall be
considered to constitute approval.
   (E)   The Historic District Commission may charge a reasonable fee to
process a permit application as set by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.13 DENIALS.
   If a permit application is denied, the decision shall be binding on the
Building Official or other authority. A denial shall be accompanied by a
written explanation by the Historic District Commission of the reasons for
denial and, if appropriate, a notice that an application may be re-submitted
for Historic District Commission review when the suggested changes have been
made. The denial shall also include the notification of the applicant’s right
to appeal to the State Historic Preservation Review Board and to the circuit
court.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.14 NOTICE TO PROCEED.
   Work within a historic district shall be permitted through the issuance of a
Notice to Proceed by the Historic District Commission, if any of the following
conditions prevail and if the proposed work can be demonstrated by a finding of
the Historic District Commission to be necessary to substantially improve or
correct any of the following conditions:
   (A)   The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to
the structure’s occupants.
   (B)   The resource is a deterrent to a major improvement program that will
be of substantial benefit to the community, and the applicant proposing the
work has obtained all necessary planning and zoning approvals, financing, and
environmental clearances.
   (C)   Retaining the resource will cause undue financial hardship to the
owner when a governmental action, an act of God, or other events beyond the
owner’s control created the hardship, and all feasible alternatives to
eliminate the financial hardship, which may include offering the resource for
sale at its fair market value or moving the resource to a vacant site within
the historic district, have been attempted and exhausted by the owner.
   (D)   Retaining the resource is not in the interest of the majority of the
community.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.15 APPEAL OF A HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION DECISION.
   (A)   An applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Historic District
Commission concerning a permit application may file an appeal with the State
Historic Preservation Review Board. The appeal shall be filed within 60
calendar days after the decision is furnished to the applicant. The appellant
may submit all or part of the appellant’s evidence and arguments in written
form. The State Historic Preservation Review Board shall consider an appeal at
its first regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the appeal. A permit
applicant aggrieved by the decision of the State Historic Preservation Review
Board may appeal the decision to the circuit court having jurisdiction over the
historic district commission whose decision was appealed to the State Historic
Preservation Review Board.
   (B)   Any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in
the city, as well as resource property owners, jointly or severally aggrieved
by a decision of the Historic District Commission, may appeal the decision to
the circuit court, except that a permit applicant aggrieved by a decision
rendered under this chapter may not appeal to the court without first
exhausting the right to appeal to the State Historic Preservation Review Board.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.16 WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   When work has been done upon a resource without a permit, and the Historic
District Commission finds that the work does not qualify for a Certificate of
Appropriateness, the Historic District Commission may require an owner to
restore the resource to the condition that the resource was in before the
inappropriate work or to modify the work so that it qualifies for a Certificate
of Appropriateness. If the owner does not comply with the restoration or
modification requirement within a reasonable time, the Historic District
Commission may seek an order from the circuit court to require the owner to
restore the resource to its former condition or to modify the work so that it
qualifies for a Certificate of Appropriateness. If the owner does not comply or
cannot comply with the order of the court, the Historic District Commission or
its agents may, if authorized by court order, enter the property and conduct
work necessary to restore the resource to its former condition or modify the
work so that it qualifies for a Certificate of Appropriateness in accordance
with the court’s order. The costs of the work done shall be charged to the
owner, and may be levied by the city as a special assessment against the
property. When acting pursuant to an order of the circuit court, the Historic
District Commission or its agents may enter a property for purposes of this
section.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.17 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   Upon a finding by the Historic District Commission that a historic resource
within a historic district or a proposed historic district subject to its
review and approval is threatened with demolition by neglect, the Historic
District Commission may do either of the following:
   (A)   Require the owner of the resource to repair all conditions
contributing to demolition by neglect.
   (B)   If the owner does not make repairs within a reasonable time, the
Historic District Commission may seek an order from circuit court to require
the owner to make such repairs as necessary to prevent demolition by neglect.
If the owner does not comply or cannot comply with the order of the court, the
Historic District Commission, or its agents, if authorized by the court order,
may enter the property and conduct work necessary to prevent demolition by
neglect. The costs of the work shall be charged to the owner, and may be levied
by the city as a special assessment against the property. When acting pursuant
to an order of the circuit court, the Historic District Commission, or its
agents, may enter a property for purposes of this section.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.18 REVIEW OF WORK IN PROPOSED DISTRICTS.
   Upon receipt of substantial evidence showing the presence of historic,
architectural, archaeological, engineering, or cultural significance of a
proposed historic district, the City Commission may, at its discretion, adopt a
resolution requiring that all applications for permits within the proposed
historic district be referred to the Historic District Commission as prescribed
in §
156.12. The Historic District Commission shall review permit applications with
the same powers that would apply if the proposed historic district was an
established historic district. The review may continue in the proposed historic
district for not more than one year, or until such time as the City Commission
approves or rejects the establishment of the historic district by ordinance,
whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.19 EMERGENCY MORATORIUM.
   If the City Commission determines that pending work will cause irreparable
harm to resources located within an established or proposed historic district,
the City Commission may by resolution declare an emergency moratorium on all
such work for a period not to exceed six months. The City Commission may extend
the emergency moratorium for an additional period not to exceed six months,
upon finding that the threat of irreparable harm to resources is still present.
Any pending permit application concerning a resource subject to an emergency
moratorium may be summarily denied.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.20 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS OR GRANTS.
   The City Commission may accept state or federal grants for historic
preservation purposes; may participate in state and federal programs that
benefit historic preservation, and may accept public or private gifts for
historic preservation purposes. The City Commission may appoint the Historic
District Commission to accept and administer grants, gifts, and program
responsibilities.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.21 ACQUISITION OF HISTORIC RESOURCES.
   If all efforts by the Historic District Commission to preserve a resource
fail, or if it is determined by the City Commission that public ownership is
most suitable, the City Commission, if considered to be the public interest,
may acquire the resource using public funds, public or private gifts, grants or
proceeds from the issuance of revenue bonds. The acquisition shall be based
upon the recommendation of the Historic District Commission. The Historic
District Commission is responsible for maintaining publicly owned resources
using its own funds, if not specifically designated for other purposes, or
public funds committed for that use by the City Commission. Upon recommendation
of the Historic District Commission, the city may sell resources acquired under
this section with protective easements included in the property transfer
documents, if appropriate.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
§ 156.22 CIVIL ACTION.
   Notwithstanding any other provision, the Historic District Commission may
not commence a civil action without permission of the City Commission.
(Ord. 1030, passed 10-23-17)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   
FRANCHISES
   
II.   
TAX EXEMPTIONS
   
III.   
ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
IV.   
HISTORIC DISTRICTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Cross-reference:
   Franchises, see Charter
Art. XI
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Michigan Consolidated Gas Company the right,
                     power, and authority to lay, maintain, operate, and use
                     gas pipes, mains, conductors, service pipes, and other
                     necessary equipment in the highways, streets, alleys, and
746      3-22-93     other public places in the city, and a franchise is hereby
                     granted to the company, its successors and assigns, to
                     transact local business in said city for the purposes of
                     conveying gas into and through and supplying and selling
                     gas in said city and all other matters incidental thereto,
                     for a period of 30 years.
842      5-8-00      Granting a limited, non-exclusive electric franchise to
                     DTE Energy for a term of five years.
 
TABLE II: TAX EXEMPTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Withdrawing exemptions from taxation of portions of a housing development owned
     12-24- by Midwest Limited Dividend Housing Association, located in part of the West ½
477  73     of the Southwest ¼ of the Northwest ¼ of Section 23, T14N, R4W, and providing
            for payment in lieu of taxes of portions of the development determined to be
            exempt.
            Withdrawing exemptions from taxation of portions of a housing development owned
     12-24- by Oak Tree Village Limited Dividend Housing Association, located in part of
478  73     the East ½ of the Southwest ¼ of Section 15, T14N, R4W, and providing for
            payments in lieu of taxes of portions of the development determined to be
            exempt.
            Providing for a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple family
            dwelling project for persons of low income or elderly persons, such project
            identified as Winchester and commencing at a point on the North line of Section
549  7-3-78 26 that is South 88° 43' East, 732.47 feet from the Northwest corner of Section
            26, T14N, R4W, to be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions of the
            State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, being
            M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.).
            Providing for a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple family
            dwelling project for persons of low income, such project identified as
634  9-16-  Yorkshire Commons and being a part of the SE ¼ of the SW ¼ of Section 23, T14N,
     85     R4W, to be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions of the Sate Housing
            Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, being M.C.L.A. §§
            125.1401 et seq.).
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
            dwelling project for persons of low income, such project identified as Chase
796  12-16- Run Apartments, being a part of the E ½ of the SE ¼ of Section 23, T14N-R4W, to
     96     be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions of the State Housing
            Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, being M.C.L.A. §§
            125.1401 et seq.), as amended.
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
            dwelling project for elderly persons of low income, such project identified as
798  4-14-  Windham Woods Senior Apartments, being a part of the E ½ of the NE ¼ of Section
     97     28, T14N-R4W, to be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions of the
            State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, being
            M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.), as amended.
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
            dwelling project for elderly persons of low income, such project identified as
     6-23-  Dover Court, being a part of the SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 23, T14N-R4W and a
801  97     part of the SW ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 23, T14N-R4W, to be financed or
            assisted pursuant to the provisions of the State Housing Development Authority
            Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.), as
            amended.
812  2-23-  Ordinance Amending section 10, Duration of Tax Exemption Ordinance No. 801.
     98
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
831  1-24-  dwelling project for persons of low income, such project identified as Chase
     00     Run Apartments to be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions of the
            State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, as amended.
832  1-24-  Amending section 8, Payment of a Service Charge of Tax Exemption Ordinance No.
     00     796.
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
833  1-24-  dwelling project for persons of low income, such project identified as the
     00     Brownfield Development Corporation to be financed or assisted pursuant to the
            provisions of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, as amended.
     3-27-  Amending sections 1, 2 and 5 of Tax Exemption Ordinance 831, providing a
840  00     service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family dwelling project
            for persons of low income.
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
     9-25-  dwelling project for persons of low and moderate income, such project
847  00     identified as the Brownfield Development Corporation, to be financed or
            assisted pursuant to the provisions of the State Housing Development Authority
            Act of 1966, as amended.
851  3-12-  Amending Section 5 of Ordinance No. 847.
     01
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
856  6-25-  dwelling project for persons of low income, such project identified as the Mill
     01     II Limited Partnership, to be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions
            of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, as amended.
            Providing a service charge in lieu of taxes for a proposed multiple-family
897  4-12-  dwelling project for persons of low income, such project identified as the
     04     Rivers Bluff Town Homes L.L.C., to be financed or assisted pursuant to the
            provisions of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, as amended.
--   11-2-  Electorate rejected Ordinance 897, known as the Rivers Bluff Tax Exemption
     04     Ordinance.
     11-14- Providing for a service charge in lieu of taxes for a multiple family dwelling
914  05     project for elderly persons of low income to be financed or assisted pursuant
            to the provisions of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966.
     7-25-  Providing for a service charge in lieu of taxes for a housing project for low
1011 16     income persons and families to be financed or assisted pursuant to the
            provisions of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966.
1058 10-12- Providing for a service charge in lieu of taxes for the property located at
     20     1414 W. Broomfield St.
     10-23- Providing for a service charge in lieu of taxes for low income persons and
1092 23     families to be financed with a federally aided mortgage loan pursuant to the
            provisions of the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966.
           
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
750  2-14-  Rezoning Lynnwood Addition, Outlot E, to M-2, Multiple Family Residential
     94
751  4-25-  Rezoning the westerly 66 feet of Lots 3 and 4, Block 19, Kinney's Addition to P-
     94     1 Parking District
     4-25-  Rezoning the westerly 25 feet of Lots 12, 13, 14, and the westerly 25 feet of
752  94     the southerly 30.78 feet, Lot 15, Block 1, South Mission Heights to C-3 General
            Business District
     10-24- Rezoning a certain parcel of property commencing 25 rods south and 150 feet west
755  94     of the north quarter post of Section 15, thence west 180 feet, south 11 rods,
            east 180 feet, north 11 rods to the point of beginning, to I-1 Industrial
759  5-8-95 Rezoning part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 23, T14N-R4W
            to R-3 Single-Family Residential
777  10-23- Rezoning certain property located at the corner of Preston Street and Isabella
     95     Road to OS-1 Office Service District
787  5-28-  Rezoning several annexed parcels:
     96
          (1) R-2 Single Family Residential:
          - All of Smalley Subdivision and the adjacent 33 feet right-of-way of E.
            Broadway Street
          - All of Dimit's Subdivision and the adjacent 33 feet right-of-way of Isabella
            Road
          - All of Greenfield Acres Subdivision and the adjacent 33 feet right-of-way of
            E. Broadway Street
          - Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6, Stone's Outlots, and the adjacent 33 feet right-of-way of
            E. Broadway Street
          - The north 170 feet of the west 160 feet of Lot 11, Stone's Outlots, and the
            adjacent 33 feet right-of-way of E. Broadway Street
          - Cook Road as platted adjacent to Lots 3, 4, 5, and 6, Stone's Outlots
          (2) OS-1 Office Service District:
          - Lot 1 and 2, Stone's Outlots
          - Cook Road as platted adjacent to Lots 1 and 2, Stone's Outlots
          (3) R-3 Single-Family Residential:
          - Prospect Park, Lot 1, also known as 1902 and 1906 Lynnwood Drive
     2-10-  Rezoning certain property located on the southwest corner of Isabella Road and
797  97     Bellows Street from R-4 Single Family Residential to OS-1 Office Service
            District.
806  10-13- Rezoning certain property located on the southwest corner of Pickard and N. Main
     97     Street to OS-1 Office Service District.
807  10-27- Rezoning certain property located between Mission and Briarwood, Fairfield and
     97     Appian Way from C-3 Commercial to M-1 Multiple Family Residential.
808  11-10- Rezoning certain property located on the southwest corner of Bradley and
     97     Broadway from R-3 Residential to OS-1 Office Service District.
810  11-24- Correction to legal description in Ord. 678, passed 8-1-88.
     97
816  8-10-  Rezoning certain property located on the southeast corner of Pickard and Brown
     98     Streets from R-3 Single Family Residential to C-3 General Business.
     11-23- Rezone certain property located at the southwest corner of Lincoln and
821  98     University Streets from R-3 Single Family Residential to OS-1 Office Service
            District.
     7-26-  Rezone roughly 4 acres in the undeveloped area east of the newly formed
824  99     intersection of Abbey Lane and Sweeney Street from M-1 Multiple Family
            Residential to R-4 Single Family Residential.
825  7-26-  Rezone roughly 24 acres in the Rosewood East Condo area from R-2 and R-4 Single
     99     Family Residential to M-1 Multiple FamilyResidential.
826  9-13-  Rezone a portion of the former Honnegers site, at 411 W. Broadway Street, from
     99     C-2 Central Business District to OS-1 Office Service District.
834  2-14-  Rezoning certain property located at 301 S. Crapo, from R-2 Single Family
     00     Residential to P-1 Parking District.
835  2-14-  Rezoning certain property located at 903 E. High Street, from R-3 Single Family
     00     Residential to OS-2 Office Services District.
            Rezoning approximately six acres on the west side of Bradley Street, legally
843  6-12-  described as the south 396 feet of the east 660 feet of the north 660 feet of
     00     the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter, Township 14 north, Range 10
            west, from R-2 Single-Family Residential to M-1 Multiple-Family Residential.
846  8-28-  Rezoning the property at 904 E. High Street to OS-2 Office Services District.
     00
854  4-23-  Rezoning the property at 202 E. Pickard to OS-2 Office Service District.
     01
855  5-14-  Rezoning the property at 400 S. Crapo to OS-2 Office Service District.
     01
859  8-27-  Rezoning the property at 1210 E. Pickard from R-2 and R-3 Single-Family
     01     Residential to C-3 General Business.
867  11-26- Rezoning the property on the north side of Broomfield between Sweeney and
     01     Isabella Road in Project 2000, from M-1 Multiple-Family Residential as follows:
          1) westerly 3+ acres to OS-2 Office Services District;
          2) easterly 2+ acres to C-1 Local Business District; and
          3) the southerly 200+ feet of the remaining property between the two parcels to
            C-1 Local Business District.
872  4-8-02 Rezoning Lots 1-8, Block 22, Bentley's Addition, to OS-1 Office Service
            District.
873  4-8-02 Rezoning the south 40' of Lot 6, Block 27, Smith's Addition to C-2 Central
            Business District.
874  4-8-02 Rezoning the south 31 feet of Lot 95, Pleasant View #1 Addition, to OS-1 Office
            Service District.
     5-13-  Rezoning Lots 9 and 17 and the north ½ of Lots 8 and 18, Block 1, Poulos
875  02     Subdivision, including abandoned Kane Street, to R-3 Single Family Residential.
            (202 N. Brown Street).
876  5-13-  Rezoning the north ½ of Lots 6, 7 and 8, Block 10, Hopkins & Lyons Addition to
     02     R-4 Single Family Residential. (406 S. Adams).
877  5-13-  Rezoning the south 1,056' of the west 495' of the northeast ¼ of the southwest ¼
     02     of Section 14 (251 S. Brown) to R-2 Single Family Residential.
878  5-13-  Rezoning the following three parcels to R-1 Single Family Residential:1) 800
     02     Watson;2) 820 Watson; and3) 902 Watson.
            Rezoning 1234 E. Broomfield to M-1 Multiple Family Residential, as follows:The
            northerly 475' of the easterly 300' of the NE ¼ of the NW ¼ of Section 26, T14N-
            R4W, Isabella County, Michigan, described as beg. at a point on the North
     5-28-  section line which is N88D-43' W, 165.0' from the North ¼ corner of Section 26;
880  02     thence N88D-43' W, 980.26'; thence S1D-20'-30" W, 225.0' thence N88D-43' W,
            175.0'; thence S1D-20'-30" W, 1100.15' along the West, North and South line;
            thence S88D-19'-35" E, 1326.49' along the North, East and West, line; thence
            N1D-04'-30" E, 1020.70' along the North and South ¼ line; thence N88D-43' W,
            165.0'; thence N1D04'-30" E, 313.50' to the POB.
881  5-28-  Rezoning 1001 N. Harris, Lot 21 of Wards Heights, City of Mt. Pleasant, Isabella
     02     County, Michigan to P-1 Parking.
     10-14- Rezoning a parcel of land on the north side of Broomfield between Sweeney and
884  02     Isabella from C-3 General Business and M-1 Multiple Family to Multiple Family M-
            1.
887  1-27-  Rezoning a parcel of land at the northwest corner of Broomfield and Deming (906
     03     W. Broomfield) to C-1 Local Business.
891  7-14-  Rezoning a portion of the property located at 1422 and 1426 E. Pickard to C-
     03     3 General Business.
904  11-8-  Rezoning a portion of the property located at 1017 S. Mission to P-1 Parking
     04     District.
908  7-11-  Rezoning 1106, 110/1112 E. Broomfield from M-1 Multiple Family Residential to
     05     OS-1 Office Service.
909  8-8-05 Rezoning 802 E. Palmer from M-1 Multiple Family Residential to C-3 General
            Business District.
910  8-8-05 Rezoning 804 E. Palmer from Multiple Family Residential to OS-2 Office Service
            District.
915  11-28- Rezoning 1805 N. Fancher (lots 9-18), 503 N. Industrial, and abutting unplatted
     05     lot, from I-1 Industrial and C-3 General Business to OS-1 Office Service.
917  1-23-  Rezoning property abutting the west lot line of 1011 N. Harris from R-4 Single
     06     Family Residential to P-1 Parking (State Employees Credit Union).
918  2-13-  Rezoning property at 1637 E. Broomfield from C-1 Local Business District to C-
     06     3 General Business District.
926  4-9-07 Rezoning property abutting lots 11-18 of N. Fancher Street from OS Officer
            Service to OS-1 Office Service District.
933  11-26- Rezoning a portion of 1240 E. Broomfield from M-1 Multiple Family Residential to
     07     C-1 Local Business District.
     10-22- Rezoning 502 and 506 W. Broadway and adjacent vacant parcel from OS-1 Office
936  07     Service District to C-2 Central Business District, and a vacant parcel west of
            506 W. Broadway from OS-1 to R-4 Single Family Residential.
942  8-25-  Rezoning 803 Mosher Street and abutting vacant lot to the west from R-3 Single-
     08     Family Residential to C-3 General Business District, as follows:
             (1) Parcel #17-000-09657-00 is described as M Brown Addition, east 81 feet of
            Lot 19, Block 1; and
             (2) Parcel #17-000-09658-00 is described as M Brown Addition, west 48 feet of
            the east 129 feet of Lot 19, Block 1.
     7-13-  Conditional rezoning of a portion of 560 - 616 W. Pickard from I-1 Industrial to
949  09     C-3 General Business with self-imposed conditions to allow retail use accessory
            to a permitted industrial use.
            Rezoning from R-1 Residential to A Agricultural, for the purpose of constructing
950  7-13-  a cellular tower, part of the N ½ of the NE ¼ of Section 21, Township 14 North,
     09     Range 4 West, City of Mt. Pleasant, Isabella County, Michigan, containing 1.08
            acres more or less.
     8-25-  Rezoning property at 1400 S. Washington from R-1 Residential to M-2 Multiple
953  10     Family Residential to allow construction of a "Covenant Leadership Community"
            housing up to eight residents.
954  10-27- Rezoning properties located at 1116 and 1202 E. Pickard and 802 N. Brown from C-
     10     3 General Business and R-3 Residential to C-3 General Business.
962  1-24-  Rezoning the property located at 309 N. Main Street from OS-1 Office Service to
     11     C-3 General Business.
968  8-22-  Conditionally rezoning the property located at 560-616 W. Pickard Street from I-
     11     1 Industrial to C-3 General Business with the Conditional Rezoning Agreement.
     8-22-  Conditionally rezoning a portion of the property located at 210 W. Pickard
969  11     Street from I-1 Industrial to C-3 General Business with the Conditional Rezoning
            Agreement.
970  9-26-  Rezoning the property located at 617-701 E. Pickard Street from I-1 Industrial
     11     to C-3 General Business.
991  1-12-  Rezoning the property located at 1040 East Broomfield Road from C-3 General
     15     Business to M-2 Multiple Family with the Conditional Rezoning Agreement.
           
 
TABLE IV: HISTORIC DISTRICTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
923      11-13-06    Designating Historic District #1, to be known as the
                     Borden Creamery Historic District.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section      Code Section
15.231 to 15.246      113.04,
                      113.17
15.231                Charter, Art. II, § 11
15.231 et seq.        30.16
15.261                Charter, Art. II, § 11
15.261 et seq.        115.03,
                      156.03
28.466(2)             133.05
30.401 et seq.        Ch. 35
37.2101 et seq.       39.99
54.211                155.05
57.1d                 133.01
117.4i(k)             10.99
123.165               52.30
125.31 et seq.        Charter,
                      Art. XIII, § 3
125.402               96.01
125.651 et seq.       32.01
125.1401 et seq.      T.S.O. II
125.1651 - 125.1680   32.16
125.3801 et seq.      32.30
169.201 et seq.       31.02
211.2(2)              33.01
211.7s                39.06
211.18 - 211.20       33.50
211.21                33.51
211.24                33.02,
                      33.50
211.29                33.03
211.30                33.03
211.30(1)             33.03
211.30(4)             33.03
                      98.20,
247.651 et seq.       98.22,
                      98.23
247.651 - 247.675     113.13
257.1 - 257.923       70.08
257.1 et seq.         110.30
257.7b                110.30
257.8b                133.01
257.33                71.02
257.49a               71.02
257.212               70.04
257.227a              70.06
257.252d(1)(b)        116.04
257.319               132.06
257.320a, c           70.06
257.321a              70.04
257.618               110.30
257.622               110.30
257.625               110.30
257.625(6)            70.07
257.625a(6)           70.07
257.625c - f          70.07
257.625e(1)           70.07
257.719a              71.02
257.732               70.05,
                      70.06
257.904d              70.03
257.1571 - 257.1577   71.02
280.01 et seq.        54.02,
                      54.09
287.321 et seq.       91.03
289.1111              110.28
324.11103             50.01
324.11701 et seq.     51.027
324.20101(t)          38.02
330.1276              96.04
333.6107              132.03
333.7201 et seq.      96.04
333.7212              70.03
333.7214              70.03
333.12751 - 333.12758 51.060
333.26421 et seq.     96.04,
                      115.03
333.26424 et seq.     115.01
333.27102 et seq.     115.01
333.27951 et seq.     115.01
338.1051 et seq.      90.01
338.1083              90.04
357.3190              132.04
399.201a et seq.      156.03
436.33b(6)            132.06
436.34                132.01
436.1703              96.04
445.451 et seq.       110.26
446.201 et seq.       110.26
446.203               110.26
460.701 et seq.       111.06,
                      114.20
460.1301 et seq.      113.03
484.2102              113.03
484.2251              113.04
484.2361              111.06
484.3101 et seq.      111.02,
                      114.03
484.3106(1)           111.03
484.3106 (7), (8)     111.05
484.3115(3)           111.09
484.3301 et seq.      111.02
484.3303(1)           111.02
484.3305(2)           111.02
500.3101 - 500.3179   70.06
559.101               50.01
560.101 et seq.       153.03
560.102               153.03
560.112               153.22
560.112 - 560.119     153.23
600.101 et seq.       36.01
600.8396              36.01,
                      36.05
600.8701 et seq.      35.08,
                      Ch. 36
600.8705              36.03,
                      36.05
600.8707(6)           36.01
600.8709              36.05
712A.1 et seq.        10.99,
                      72.99
722.673               96.11
750.167               131.01
750.169               131.02
750.301 et seq.       131.05
750.335a              96.04
750.493d              131.06
750.552               131.10
750.552a              96.04
752.362               96.11
760.1 - 776.69        70.03
                      93.02,
764.9c - 764.9g       97.03,
                      150.17
772.1 - 772.6         132.08
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      - -         51.103
—      - -         91.06
                     92.01,
—      - -         92.02,
                     96.05,
                     96.12
—      - -         110.02
—      - -         110.11
—      - -         131.01,
                     131.04
394      5-23-66     32.01,
                     32.02
439      4-20-70     96.12
450      6-7-71      34.01 -
                     34.06
468      4-2-73      31.15 -
                     31.20
—      12-15-73    95.01,
                     95.02
477      12-24-73    T.S.O. II
478      12-24-73    T.S.O. II
483      6-3-74      97.30 -
                     97.35
—      7-25-74     91.06
                     153.01 -
                     153.07,
                     153.20 -
                     153.24,
492      3-17-75     153.35 -
                     153.40,
                     153.50 -
                     153.53,
                     153.99
512      12-20-76    33.15 -
                     33.37
                     30.01 -
513      12-20-76    30.15,
                     31.01
514      12-20-76    33.50,
                     33.51
522      5-2-77      33.28
523      5-16-77     70.01,
                     70.02
527      8-15-77     51.103
532      9-19-77     92.01,
                     92.02
                     99.01 -
                     99.12,
545      3-6-78      99.25 -
                     99.32,
                     99.99
546      5-15-78     31.01
549      7-3-78      T.S.O. II
558      4-16-79     51.103
568      4-17-80     70.02
577      7-21-80     131.01
593      4-5-82      92.01
602      3-21-83     96.12
603      5-2-83      70.02
611      1-14-84     96.05
613      3-6-84      154.000
                     90.01 -
618      9-17-84     90.08,
                     90.99
619      10-1-84     96.04
                     51.001,
                     51.002,
                     51.004 -
                     51.011,
                     51.025 -
                     51.027,
                     51.040 -
                     51.045,
                     51.060 -
                     51.066,
622      3-4-85      51.080 -
                     51.084,
                     51.086 -
                     51.089,
                     51.100 -
                     51.102,
                     51.104,
                     51.125 -
                     51.130,
                     51.997,
                     Ch. 51 Appendix
633      9-3-85      131.03
660      7-6-87      96.05
666      4-4-88      70.02
668      4-4-88      91.03,
                     91.04
669      4-4-88      153.36
689      4-10-89     51.128
711      10-22-90    32.15 -
                     32.23
                     51.080 -
                     51.084,
                     51.086 -
704      3-12-91     51.089,
                     51.100 -
                     51.102,
                     51.104
704      4-11-91     51.128
                     51.002,
                     51.080 -
                     51.084,
727      4-29-91     51.086 -
                     51.089,
                     51.128 -
                     51.130,
                     51.997
727      6-27-91     51.128
736      4-13-92     96.03
738      4-13-92     96.04
739      4-27-92     132.01
742      9-28-92     32.19
                     50.01 -
                     50.06,
745      2-8-93      50.09 -
                     50.14,
                     50.99
746      3-22-93     T.S.O. I
                     97.01 -
748      5-24-93     97.03,
                     97.15 -
                     97.20
750      2-14-94     T.S.O. III
751      4-25-94     T.S.O. III
752      4-25-94     T.S.O. III
                     110.02 -
                     110.06,
753      7-11-94     110.09 -
                     110.11,
                     110.27
754      8-22-94     131.08
755      10-24-94    T.S.O. III
759      5-8-95      T.S.O. III
761      7-24-95     131.04
762      8-14-95     91.05,
                     91.99
                     10.99,
763      8-14-95     36.01 -
                     36.07
768      8-14-95     110.99
769      8-14-95     97.99
770      8-14-95     50.99
771      8-14-95     99.99
                     98.01 -
772      8-28-95     98.14,
                     98.99
                     98.25 -
773      8-28-95     98.38,
                     98.99
                     52.01 -
                     52.11,
774      8-28-95     52.25 -
                     52.33,
                     52.99
776      10-9-95     96.99
778      10-9-95     51.103
777      10-23-95    T.S.O. III
779      11-27-95    150.15
783      3-11-96     96.11,
                     96.99
785      5-13-96     96.10,
                     96.99
787      5-28-96     T.S.O. III
789      10-14-96    132.02 -
                     132.08
793      10-14-96    98.37
794      12-9-96     150.01,
                     150.99
796      12-16-96    T.S.O. II
797      2-10-97     T.S.O. III
798      4-14-97     T.S.O. II
800      6-23-97     50.06
801      1-23-97     T.S.O. II
802      7-14-97     Adopting Ordinance
803      7-28-97     50.99
                     70.02,
804      8-25-97     131.01,
                     131.09
805      10-13-97    98.15,
                     98.16
806      10-13-97    T.S.O. III
807      10-27-97    T.S.O. III
808      11-10-97    T.S.O. III
809      11-24-97    50.06(B)(5)
810      11-24-97    T.S.O. III
812      2-23-98     T.S.O. II
                     92.01,
813      2-23-98     92.03,
                     92.99
816      8-10-98     T.S.O. III
821      11-23-98    T.S.O. III
822      3-22-99     Chapter 113
824      7-26-99     T.S.O III
825      7-26-99     T.S.O III
826      9-13-99     T.S.O III
827      10-25-99    70.03
828      10-25-99    131.10
829      10-25-99    131.11
831      1-24-00     T.S.O. II
832      1-24-00     T.S.O. II
833      1-24-00     T.S.O. II
834      2-14-00     T.S.O. III
835      2-14-00     T.S.O. III
837      2-28-00     131.12
838      2-28-00     132.04
839      2-28-00     70.04 -
                     70.07
840      3-27-00     T.S.O. II
842      5-8-00      T.S.O. I
843      6-12-00     T.S.O. III
846      8-28-00     T.S.O. III
847      9-25-00     T.S.O. II
                     155.01 -
848      10-9-00     155.08,
                     155.99
850      12-11-00    51.100 -
                     51.104
851      3-12-01     T.S.O. II
852      3-26-01     96.04
853      3-26-01     96.03
854      4-23-01     T.S.O. III
855      5-12-01     T.S.O. III
856      6-25-01     T.S.O. II
859      8-27-01     T.S.O. III
860      9-10-01     131.04
                     150.15 -
862      9-10-01     150.18,
                     150.99
863      10-22-01    131.04
864      10-22-01    150.15
                     52.05,
865      11-12-01    52.25,
                     52.27
866      11-26-01    51.101, Ch. 51 Appendix
867      11-26-01    T.S.O. III
869      2-25-02     96.03
870      3-11-02     50.06
872      4-8-02      T.S.O. III
873      4-8-02      T.S.O. III
874      4-8-02      T.S.O. III
875      5-13-02     T.S.O. III
876      5-13-02     T.S.O. III
877      5-13-02     T.S.O. III
878      5-13-02     T.S.O. III
880      5-28-02     T.S.O. III
881      5-28-02     T.S.O. III
884      10-14-02    T.S.O. III
                     113.01 -
885      10-28-02    113.20,
                     113.99
                     37.01 -
                     37.08,
886      11-11-02    37.20 -
                     37.36,
                     37.50 -
                     37.60
887      1-27-03     T.S.O. III
                     110.01 -
                     110.11,
888      2-24-03     110.25,
                     110.27,
                     110.99
889      4-14-03     131.13
                     30.04,
890      6-9-03      30.08,
                     30.11,
                     30.15
891      7-14-03     T.S.O. III
892      7-28-03     38.01 -
                     38.06
894      8-11-03     154.000
                     114.01 -
                     114.03,
                     114.15 -
895      10-13-03    114.26,
                     114.35 -
                     114.37,
                     114.99
896      2-9-04      70.03
897      4-12-04     T.S.O. II
898      6-14-04     96.03
                     52.01,
                     52.05,
                     52.08,
                     52.11,
899      7-26-04     52.12,
                     52.25 -
                     52.27,
                     52.30,
                     52.32,
                     52.34
900      9-13-04     131.02
902      9-13-04     96.13
—      11-2-04     T.S.O. II
—      11-4-04     52.34
904      11-8-04     T.S.O. III
                     50.01 -
                     50.06,
905      12-13-04    50.09 -
                     50.14,
                     50.99
906      2-14-05     110.26
908      7-11-05     T.S.O. III
909      8-8-05      T.S.O. III
910      8-8-05      T.S.O. III
911      9-12-05     70.01,
                     70.08
914      11-14-05    T.S.O. II
915      11-28-05    T.S.O. III
917      1-23-06     T.S.O. III
918      2-13-06     T.S.O. III
—      11-8-05     52.35
                     93.01 -
                     93.13,
919      4-24-06     93.15,
                     93.17 -
                     93.19,
                     93.99
923      11-13-06    T.S.O. IV
                     98.04,
925      3-12-07     98.13,
                     98.99
926      4-9-07      T.S.O. III
                     152.001 -
927      5-14-07     152.013,
                     152.999
933      11-26-07    T.S.O. III
936      10-22-07    T.S.O. III
941      2-25-08     30.04
942      8-25-08     T.S.O. III
943      9-22-08     93.01,
                     93.02
946      4-13-09     72.35
947      4-13-09     50.10
948      5-11-09     96.05
949      7-13-09     T.S.O. III
950      7-13-09     T.S.O. III
952      8-24-09     52.51
953      8-25-10     T.S.O. III
954      10-27-10    T.S.O. III
                     111.01 -
959      11-8-10     111.12,
                     111.99
                     114.01,
                     114.03,
960      11-8-10     114.15,
                     114.16,
                     114.20
                   114.21,
                     114.38
961      11-8-10     97.18
962      1-24-11     T.S.O. III
                     10.05,
                     10.99,
                     36.01,
963      3-24-11     36.04,
                     36.05,
                     152.999,
                     153.99,
                     154.000
964      4-25-11     131.09,
                     131.11
965      4-25-11     132.03
966      4-25-11     152.003,
                     152.008
968      8-22-11     T.S.O. III
969      8-22-11     T.S.O. III
970      9-26-11     T.S.O. III
972      6-11-12     70.03
                     39.01 -
973      7-9-12      39.10,
                     39.98,
                     39.99
                     133.01 -
975      8-13-12     133.07,
                     133.99
977      1-28-13     96.05,
                     96.99
                     51.100,
979      5-28-13     51.104,
                     52.25
981      7-22-13     96.04
                     110.11,
982      10-14-13    110.27,
                     110.28,
                     110.99
984      1-13-14     151.01 -
                     151.04
985      1-13-14     93.02,
                     93.12
986      1-13-14     152.004
987      4-28-14     93.08
988      6-23-14     93.08
989      8-25-14     133.02
990      10-13-14    110.27,
                     110.28
991      1-12-15     T.S.O. III
992      1-12-15     54.01 -
                     54.13
995      6-22-15     96.04
996      6-22-15     98.20 -
                     98.23
                     110.11,
999      7-13-15     110.29,
                     110.99
                     50.06,
1001     8-10-15     50.15,
                     50.99
1003     9-28-15     154.054, 154.095,
                     154.121
1004     11-9-15     154.021
1005     11-9-15     154.095
1006     11-9-15     154.162 - 154.166, 154.171
                     131.01,
1007     12-14-15    131.14,
                     131.15
                     93.01,
1008     4-11-16     93.02,
                     93.12
1009     4-25-16     98.13,
                     131.14
1010     5-23-16     54.09
1011     7-25-16     T.S.O. II
1017     10-12-16    152.004,
                     152.007
                     130.01,
1018     10-12-16    131.10,
                     132.03,
                     132.04
1019     11-14-16    51.126
1021     1-23-17     50.12,
                     50.99
1022     3-27-17     152.008,
                     152.999
1023     4-24-17     93.03
1026     9-11-17     131.04
                     54.02 -
1028     10-9-17     54.04,
                     54.09
1029     10-23-17    150.02
1030     10-23-17    156.01 -
                     156.22
1031     10-23-17    32.30
                     132.03,
1032     1-8-18      132.04,
                     132.06
1033     1-22-18     50.12,
                     50.99
1034     1-22-18     154.000
1035     3-12-18     150.02
1038     6-11-18     112.01 -
                     112.06
                     30.04 -
                     30.13,
1041     10-8-18     30.15,
                     30.16,
                     31.01
                     113.01 -
1042     4-8-19      113.20,
                     113.99
1045     8-26-19     30.04
1046     9-9-19      115.01 -
                     115.08
                     133.01 -
1054     11-11-19    133.07,
                     133.99
1055     2-10-20     112.03
                     50.01,
1056     7-27-20     50.06 -
                     50.08
1058     10-12-20    T.S.O. II
                     150.30,
                     150.31,
1062     11-23-20    150.33,
                     150.35 -
                     150.37
1063     11-23-20    50.02,
                     50.99
1064     3-8-21      52.12,
                     52.29
                     97.01 -
                     97.04,
                     97.15 -
1068     5-10-21     97.21,
                     97.30 -
                     97.35,
                     97.99
                     10.05,
1069     7-12-21     91.01 -
                     91.10,
                     91.99
1073     8-23-21     97.99
                     51.001 -
                     51.011,
                     51.025 -
                     51.027,
                     51.040 -
                     51.045,
                     51.060 -
                     51.066,
1074     9-27-21     51.080 -
                     51.090,
                     51.100 -
                     51.104,
                     51.125 -
                     51.130,
                     51.997 -
                     51.999,
                     Ch. 51 Appendix
1078     5-9-22      110.11,
                     110.30
1079     5-9-22      112.02 -
                     112.05
                     115.02 -
1080     5-9-22      115.05,
                     115.08
                     116.01 -
1085     10-10-22    116.05,
                     116.99
1086     2-13-23     116.03
                     39.01,
1088     5-22-23     39.02,
                     39.07
                     150.30,
                     150.36,
1089     8-14-23     152.004 -
                     152.013,
                     152.999
1090     10-9-23     98.37
1091     10-9-23     71.01 -
                     71.06
1092     10-23-23    T.S.O. II
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
1096     7-8-24      50.09,
                     50.11,
                     50.12,
                     50.14
1097     8-26-24     96.05
                     52.25,
1099     9-9-24      52.27,
                     52.30
1100     9-9-24      152.005,
                     152.008
1101     9-23-24     110.27
1102     9-23-24     110.28
                     72.01 -
                     72.03,
1103     7-28-25     72.15 -
                     72.24,
                     72.35,
                     72.99
                    
 
