MUSSEY TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 44, passed 2-9-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street Ste. 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE #38
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE MUSSEY TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPLILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF MUSSEY TOWNSHIP:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Mussey Township, Michigan.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   (SEE ATTACHED TABLE OF CONTENTS) Link_to_Table
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and preordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mussey Township Board of the Political Subdivision on
this 8th day of February, 2017.
EFFECTIVE DATE: Public Hearing having been held hereon, the provisions of this
Ordinance shall take effect upon the expiration of seven days after
publication, pursuant to the provision of Section 11, Act 184 of the Public
Acts of 1943, as amended.
ADOPTION: Made and passed by the Township Board of Trustees of the Township of
Mussey, St. Clair County, Michigan, on this 8th day of February, 2017 A.D.
1.   Date of Adoption by Township Board:   February 08, 2017
2.   Date of Publication:            February 15, 2017
3.   Date Ordinance shall take effect:      February 23, 2017
Certification:
   I, Sheila McDonald, Clerk of the Township of Mussey, do hereby certify that
Ordinance #38 was adopted by the Township Board at a regular meeting of the
Township Board held at the Township Fire Hall on the 8th day of February, 2017.
   Vote on this Ordinance, 5 members being present, was as follows:
AYES: Standel, Libkie, McDonald & Downey
NAYS: None
ABSENT: Lauwers
   I further certify that said Ordinance #38 adopted by the Township Board on
the 8th day of February, 2017 was published once in the Tri-City Times, a paper
published and circulated in the Township of Mussey, County of St. Clair, on the
15th day of February, 2017 this being the first and final day of publication of
this ordinance.
                                                               
                        Sheila McDonald, Clerk
                        Township of Mussey
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Mussey Township
Code.”
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the township, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE.  The Mussey Township Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of St. Clair, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. A person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Township of
Mussey, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the
township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the township and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP. the Township of Mussey, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township, any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the township;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the
township;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any township
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to re-zoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Township Comptroller’s office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoined, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Mussey Township
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Mussey Township Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become
obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that,
when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the
adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the township, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a township ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
31.   CIVIL INFRACTIONS
CHAPTER 30: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Run Charges
   
30.01   Purpose
   
30.02   Charges
   
30.03   Payment
   
30.04   Exemptions
   
30.05   Collection of charges
   
30.06   Non-exclusive charges
   
30.07   Multiple property protection
FIRE RUN CHARGES
§ 30.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of providing financial assistance
to the township in the operation of a Fire Department from those receiving
direct benefits from the fire protection service. It is the further purpose of
this subchapter to provide for full funding of the Fire Department operation
which remains, in part, an at-large governmental expense based upon the general
benefits derived by all property owners within the township from the existence
of a township Fire Department and its availability to extinguish fires within
the township and perform other emergency services.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 30.02 CHARGES.
   (A)   Resident per hour charges: $500.
   (B)   Nonresident first hour charge: $1,500.
   (C)   Fire alarm: $300.
   (D)    Apparatus charges. These charges will be utilized at any incident,
over four hours that the Chief deems necessary:
 
Apparatus       Charges for 1st Hour Plus Subsequent Hours Plus Personnel
                Personnel*
Engine          $500                      $400
Pumper Tanker   $500                      $400
Pumping Station $500                      $400
Rescue/Squad    $400                      $300
Utility/Grass   $300                      $200
* Cost Factor: Cost factor (asterisk) is the additional charge made on
the first hour to cover added costs such as administrative, and the like.
 
   (E)   Personnel: The cost of firefighters is to be commensurate with their
local hourly rate and fringe benefits, turn out gear and time and one half,
where applicable.
   (F)    Expandable Items: Replacement costs for reasonable and customary
items necessary in Firefighting, Haz-Mat incidents, and E.M.S. operations may
be recovered. Examples of such items that can be recovered are extinguishing
agents (A.F.F.F., AFFF/ATC) and absorbent materials, etc.
   (G)   Specialty Items: Owners of incidents are to pick up any and all
charges of additional equipment needed and not normally part of the fire
department. All items needed will be determined by the officer in charge.
   (H)   Non-retrievable: Items that are lost or destroyed will be billed at
replacement value.
   (I)   Note: Division (F) an d(G) items listed are examples and charges made
would not necessarily be limited to the above.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 30.03 PAYMENT.
    All of the foregoing charges shall be due and payable within 30 days from
the date of invoice. Default of payment shall be collectible through
proceedings in district court or in any other court of competent jurisdiction
as matured debt
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 30.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted:
   (A)   Tornado warnings.
   (B)   Fire service performed outside the jurisdiction of the township under
a mutual aid contract with another fire department.
   (C)   Medical emergencies.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 30.05 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The township may proceed in district court by suit to collect any monies
remaining unpaid and shall have any and all other remedies provided by law for
the collection of said charges.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 30.06 NON-EXCLUSIVE CHARGES.
   The foregoing rates and charges shall not be exclusive of the charges that
may be made by the township for the costs and expenses of maintaining a fire
department, but shall only be supplemental thereto. Charges may additionally be
collected by the township through general taxation after a vote of the
electorate approving the same or by a special assessment established under the
state statutes pertinent thereto. General Fund appropriations may also be made
to cover additional costs and expenses.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
§ 30.07 MULTIPLE PROPERTY PROTECTION.
   When a particular service rendered by the Fire Department directly benefits
more than one person or property, the owner of each property so benefited and
each person so benefited where property protection is not involved shall be
liable for the payment of the full charge for such service hereinbefore
outlined. The interpretation and application of the within section is hereby
delegated to the Fire Chief subject only to appeal, within the time limits for
payment, to the Township Board and shall be administered so that charges only
be collected from the recipients of the service.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-10-2004)
CHAPTER 31: CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Commencement of municipal civil infraction action
   
31.03   Issuance and service of municipal civil infraction citations
   
31.04   Contents of citations
   
31.05   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
31.06   Schedule of fines
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended.
   AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. A police officer or other personnel of the
township authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil
infraction notices. The following persons other than police officers are also
authorized township officials to issue a municipal civil infraction notice or
citation: the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the Chief Building Inspector or
authorized representative, the Fire Chief or authorized representative, the
Director of Planning and Zoning or authorized representative, the Director or
Public Works or authorized representative, the Electrical Inspector, the
Building Inspector and the Plumbing and Mechanical Inspector.
   BUREAU. The Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau as established by this
chapter.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized township official, directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by an
authorized township official, directing a person to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed
for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the township, as
authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 600.8396 and 600.8707(6).
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Mussey.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 31.02 COMMENCEMENT OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized township official of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 31.03 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized township officials as follows.
      (1)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
      (2)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the 72nd
Judicial District Court.
      (3)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a
form approved by the State Court Administrator. The original citation shall be
filed with the District Court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the
township and issued to the alleged violator as provided by § 8705 of Public Act
236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
      (4)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
township official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that
the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and
belief.”
      (5)   An authorized township official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction may prepare and prescribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (B)   An authorized township official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction or
if the Township Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (C)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
township official as follows.
      (1)   Except as provided by division (C)(2) below, an authorized township
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner
of the land, building or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 31.04 CONTENTS OF CITATIONS.
   (A)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and address of
the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the place where
the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court
and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail at or by the time specified for appearance or, in person
or by representation; or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the township;
or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   If the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility with
explanation in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation, within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   If the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the alleged
violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is specified on
the citation;
      (3)   A hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing is
requested by the alleged violator or the township;
      (4)   At an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being
represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   At a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in bold-faced type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on
the municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 31.05 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established. The township hereby establishes a Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau (Bureau) as authorized under § 8396 of Public Act
236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, to accept admissions of responsibility
for municipal civil infractions in response to municipal civil infraction
violation notices issued and served by authorized township officials, and to
collect and retain civil fines and costs as prescribed by this code or any
ordinance.
   (B)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations. The Bureau
shall be located at the Township Municipal Building, 135 N. Main Street, Capac,
Michigan 48014.
   (C)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice (as compared with a citation) has
been issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a particular violation
shall not entitle any person to dispose of the violation at the Bureau. Nothing
in this chapter shall prevent or restrict the township from issuing a municipal
civil infraction citation for any violation or from prosecuting any violation
in a court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall be required to dispose of
a municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau and may have the violation
processed before a court of appropriate jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any
person to dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person
or in any way diminish the person’s rights, privileges and protection accorded
by law.
   (D)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The scope of
the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
   (E)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. Municipal civil
infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized township
officials under the same circumstances and upon the same persons as provided
for citations as provided in §
31.03(B) and (C) of this chapter. In addition to any other information required
by this code or other ordinance, the notice of violation shall indicate the
time by which the alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by
which an appearance may be made, the address and telephone number of the
Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine
scheduled for the alleged violation and the consequences for failure to appear
and pay the required fine within the required time.
   (F)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and
pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in
the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by
mail, in person or by representation.
   (G)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized township official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may
be filed with the District Court and a copy of the citation may be served by
first-class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator’s last known
address. The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all
particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by §§ 8705 and 8709
of Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and 600.8709, but shall
consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal
ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to
respond to the citation.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 31.06 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by another section of the code of
ordinances, the fine payable to the Bureau for admission of responsibility
persons served with a municipal civil infraction notice is $50. This fine may
be amended from time to time by resolution of the Township Board and shall be
posted at the Bureau.
   (B)   The fines authorized under this section shall be in addition to any
other remedy provided for by law or ordinance and shall not diminish or impair
the ability of the township to seek violation of the provisions of the code of
ordinances, or this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-1998)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   (Reserved)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Truck Routes
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Purpose
   
70.03   Exemptions
   
70.04   Pick-ups, deliveries and service calls
   
70.05   Leaving or returning to home or place of business
   
70.06   Special permits
   
70.07   Signs
   
70.08   Administrative liability
   
70.09   Repeal
 
   
70.99   Penalty
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any word
or term not defined herein shall be considered to be defined in accordance with
its common or standard definition.
   PERSON. Includes an agency, company, organization, firm, association,
partnership, joint venture, corporation, trust or equivalent entity or a
combination of any of them as well as a natural person.
   ROAD. Any street, highway or route within the township.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rest upon or is
carried by some other vehicle.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property, except a pick-up truck, or a van designed so as to
carry loads of no more than one ton.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of vehicle and load so drawn.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.02 PURPOSE.
   Except as expressly permitted under this subchapter, no person shall operate
a truck or truck-tractor and semi-trailer or truck-tractor and trailer
combination, or truck and trailer combination in the township on Imlay City
Road between Capac Road and M-21.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The truck route limitations prescribed in this subchapter shall not apply
to:
   (A)   Fire trucks or other emergency vehicles or vehicles on emergency
business involved in the saving of life or property;
   (B)   Road repair, construction or maintenance vehicles while involved in
the repair, construction or maintenance of roads within the township; or
   (C)   Garbage service vehicles while involved in the provisions of service
to residents of the township.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.04 PICK-UPS, DELIVERIES AND SERVICE CALLS.
   A vehicle which would otherwise be restricted and which is being used to
make pick-ups, deliveries or service calls in the township on Imlay City Road
shall restrict its travel to a minimum. Said vehicle shall be driven in such a
manner as to proceed to its destination or destinations on Imlay City Road.
Upon completion of the pick-ups, deliveries or service calls, the vehicle shall
return to the nearest permitted truck route or leave the township by the most
direct route. This section shall not be interpreted as permitting a vehicle
otherwise restricted to a truck route from entering or leaving the township by
other than a truck route.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 LEAVING OR RETURNING TO HOME OR PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent a truck or truck-tractor and semi-
trailer, or truck-tractor and trailer combination, or returning to its
customary storage location at the owner or operator’s personal residence.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.06 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The Township Supervisor shall have the authority to grant a written permit
in special cases which would otherwise be in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter. Such permits, however, shall not be given for more than one
round trip and in no case shall a permit be valid for a longer period than ten
days from the date of issue. Said permit shall describe the vehicle, the time
and dates of travel and the route to be taken by the vehicle. The Township
Board shall, by resolution, set a fee for special permits.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.07 SIGNS.
   The Township Board shall procure and have posted appropriate signs along the
designated truck routes as required by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.08 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the township or member of the Township
Board shall render himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to any person as a result of any act, decision or other consequence or
occurrence arising out of the discharge of his or her duties and
responsibilities pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.09 REPEAL.
   All ordinances or parts thereof which are in conflict in whole or in part
with any of the provisions of this subchapter as of the effective date of this
subchapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict, except that the
terms defined herein for purposes of interpretation, administration and
enforcement of this subchapter only will in no way, manner or form repeal,
modify or otherwise change the definition of any such terms as used in other
ordinances of the township.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
civil infraction.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 4-13-2005)
Cross-reference:
   Civil infractions, see
Chapter 31
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   CLEAN COMMUNITY
      
94.   NOISE CONTROL
      
95.   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLIES
      
96.   KEY LOCK BOXES
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Use, ignition or discharge of consumer fireworks
   
90.04   Permit for public display; fee
Open Burning
   
90.15   Applicability
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Permit to burn required for open fires
   
90.18   Open fires limited to daylight hours
   
90.19   Proximity of fire to buildings
   
90.20   Fires in streets and public places
   
90.21   Danger of spreading
   
90.22   Attendance at fires
   
90.23   Foul odors
   
90.24   Contained burning
   
90.25   Emergency conditions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 90.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the fireworks subchapter, and it
shall be sufficient to any action for enforcement of the provisions hereof, to
define the same by such title and reference to the number hereof.
(Ord. 33, passed 5-8-2013)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Public Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq. and the
Fireworks Safety Act Emergency Rules, being Michigan Administrative Code Rules
29.2901 through 29.2926, drafted by the State Department of Licensing and
Regulatory Affairs and filed with the Secretary of State on March 9, 2012.
   APA. American Pyrotechnics Association of Bethesda, Maryland.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
that are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3 or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS
does not include low-impact fireworks. Examples of CONSUMER FIREWORKS include
bottle rockets and roman candles.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation, as provided in 27
C.F.R. part 555.11, 49 C.F.R. part 172 and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible
or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS consist
of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8 and 3.5.
   NATIONAL HOLIDAY. New Year’s Day (January 1), Birthday of Martin Luther
King, Jr. (the third Monday in January), Washington’s Birthday (the third
Monday in February), Memorial Day (the last Monday in May), Independence Day
(July 4), Labor Day (the first Monday in September), Columbus Day (the second
Monday in October), Veterans Day (November 11), Thanksgiving Day (the fourth
Thursday in November) and Christmas Day (December 25).
   PERSON. An individual, agent, association, charitable organization, company,
limited liability company, corporation, labor organization, legal
representative, partnership, unincorporated organization or any other legal or
commercial entity.
(Ord. 33, passed 5-8-2013)
§ 90.03 USE, IGNITION OR DISCHARGE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer or display
fireworks, except as permitted in this section.
   (B)   Except as prohibited in this section, a person is permitted to use
consumer fireworks on the day preceding, the day of or the day after a national
holiday.
   (C)   No person shall ignite, discharge, or use fireworks on public
property, school property, church property or the property of another person
without that organization’s or person’s express permission to use those
fireworks on those premises.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall not willfully cause, by way of ignition,
discharge, use or any other means, fireworks to enter upon the lands or
premises of another without the express permission of the owner or occupant, or
agent or servant of the owner or occupant of the lands or premises.
      (2)   A person who pleads or is found responsible for this civil
infraction shall be presumed responsible for any resulting property damage and
shall be required to pay full restitution to the property owner.
   (E)   An individual shall not use consumer fireworks or low-impact fireworks
while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled substance or a
combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
   (F)    No minor shall ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks at any
time.
   (G)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks on the
day preceding, the day of, or the day after a national holiday between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (H)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks when a
burn ban is in effect for the township.
(Ord. 33, passed 5-8-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 PERMIT FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY; FEE.
   (A)   The Township Board, upon application in writing, in accordance with
the provisions of Public Act 256 of 2011, M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., may grant
a permit for the use of fireworks otherwise prohibited by this section for
public display by organizations or groups of individuals approved by the
Township Board.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a permit under this section, the Township
Board shall rule on the competency and qualifications of operators seeking such
permit.
   (C)   The Township Board may charge a fee to issue a permit under this
section and shall retain the fee paid.
(Ord. 33, passed 5-8-2013)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.15 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety and is designed
to promote the general peace, health, safety and welfare of the township.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLAMMABLE MATERIAL. Any substance that will burn, including, but not limited
to, refuse, debris, waste forest material, brush, stumps, logs, rubbish, fallen
timber, grass, stubble, leaves, fallow land, slash, crops or crop residue.
   OPEN FIRE. Any fire of any flammable material upon any woodland, lot,
subdivision, grassland, field, public right-of-way or any other parcel of
ground within the township, which fire is not wholly contained within an
outside fireplace, grill, incinerator approved by the township, or other
receptacle used for the purpose of burning combustibles and approved by the
township.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association or any other
legal entity, or any officer, employee or agent of the foregoing.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997)
§ 90.17 PERMIT TO BURN REQUIRED FOR OPEN FIRES.
   No person shall set, cause to be set or maintain any open fire for any
purpose within the township, without first obtaining a permit to burn. A permit
to burn may be obtained from the Township Fire Chief, or from a duly authorized
representative of the Township Fire Department. A permit to burn shall state
the name and address of the applicant, the location of the land or premises
where such fire is to be set, the owner of the property if someone other than
the person setting the fire, the type of material to be burned, the time
contemplated for setting such fire, the approximate duration of such burning,
the person who is to be in charge of the fire and any other information deemed
to be pertinent by the Township Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized
representative.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 OPEN FIRES LIMITED TO DAYLIGHT HOURS.
   No person shall set, cause to be set or maintain any open fire for any
purpose except during daylight hours, unless by written authorization from the
Township Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized representative.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 PROXIMITY OF FIRE TO BUILDINGS.
   No person shall start or have any open fire within 25 feet of any structure.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 FIRES IN STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall set, cause to be set or maintain any open fire on any
sidewalk, parkway, street, highway, alley, park or other public way or place
except as specifically authorized by the Township Fire Chief or his or her duly
authorized representative.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 DANGER OF SPREADING.
   No person shall start or have any fire, open or contained, upon any
woodland, lot subdivision, grassland, field or public right-of-way within the
township whenever there is a danger of such fire spreading beyond the control
of the person starting or maintaining such fire so as to injure, damage or
endanger the life, limb or property of another.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 ATTENDANCE AT FIRES.
   No person who sets, causes to be set or maintains any open fire within the
township shall leave such open fire, unless attended by a person of mature
years, until such fire has been completely extinguished.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 FOUL ODORS.
   No person shall burn garbage, animal carcasses, refuse, trash, rubbish or
like material which shall give off noxious or foul odors at any time.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 CONTAINED BURNING.
   All other burning shall be done in a debris burner constructed of masonry or
metal with an approved spark arrestor with openings no larger than one-quarter
of an inch square. Such burners shall not be located within 15 feet from any
building or less than five feet from any adjoining property line. No permit is
required for burning under such containment.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   The Township Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized representative may
prohibit any and all outdoor burning, whether open or contained, within the
township if in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized
representative the weather conditions are such that outdoor burning may not be
done safely. It shall be unlawful for any person to set, cause to be set or
maintain any fire whatsoever, whether open or contained in an approved debris
burner, during any time that such emergency conditions are in effect.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall be found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.25 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
Should the fire necessitate calling the Township Fire Department or any other
fire department, the person violating the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.25 shall pay to the township all costs and charges incurred by said township
by reason of the calling of the Township Fire Department or any other fire
department, and the township may sue in any court of competent jurisdiction for
civil damages, and may recover such costs and expenses incurred by them from
such person.
(Ord. 16, passed 11-12-1997)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Private Roads
   
91.01   Intent
   
91.02   Prohibitions
   
91.03   Conveyance of interest of land abutting private road
   
91.04   New road construction
   
91.05   Relationship to other laws and ordinances
   
91.06   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
Address Numbering
   
91.20   Address number required
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Application
   
91.23   Posting
   
91.24   Numerals
   
91.25   New construction
   
91.26   Multiple address numbers
   
91.27   Private roads
   
91.28   Electrical service
   
91.29   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 91.01 INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter eliminates the new construction of private roads and
regulates the review, approval, design, inspection and maintenance of roads
within the township.
   (B)   No lot or parcel of property within the township may be sold that does
not front upon a public road, or an existing, approved private road, except if
combined with a parcel which shall front on any such public road or existing
private road.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §  91.99
§ 91.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of private roads prohibited. No private roads shall be
approved or constructed in the township after the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Sales of parcels of land. No person shall divide or sell any parcel of
land within the township unless said parcel of land fronts upon a public street
which is dedicated to the public or unless such parcel fronts upon an existing
private road, or unless said deed or other conveyance of sale contains the
following language:
“This parcel is not a buildable site for the reason that said parcel does not
front on an approved road with acceptable ingress and egress as required by the
zoning ordinance and private road ordinance of the township.”
   (C)   Building permits. No building permit shall be issued by the Township
Building Department or any other official for a structure unless said structure
fronts on a public street or highway dedicated to the public, or an existing
private road.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §  91.99
§ 91.03 CONVEYANCE OF INTEREST OF LAND ABUTTING PRIVATE ROAD.
   An offer to purchase any conveyance of land and the instrument of conveyance
for a parcel located on an existing private road shall include a provision that
the buyer and/or grantee acknowledges the maintenance, care and other
responsibilities concerning said private road rest with the abutting land
owners, and are not the responsibility of the township.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-10-2007)
§ 91.04 NEW ROAD CONSTRUCTION.
   New road construction shall not occur without prior approval of the Township
Planning Commission, and the County Road Commission. All new road construction
must meet the existing minimum requirements of the County Road Commission and
any conditions which may be imposed by the township after site plan review and
approval.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §  91.99
§ 91.05 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   Whenever regulations or restrictions imposed by this subchapter are either
more or less restrictive than regulations or restrictions imposed by
governmental authority through legislation, rule or regulation, the more
restrictive regulations or those which impose higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-10-2007) Penalty, see §  91.99
§ 91.06 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Any previous township private road ordinance is hereby repealed in its
entirety.
(Ord. 23, passed 1-10-2007)
ADDRESS NUMBERING
§ 91.20 ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIRED.
   Each dwelling and each principal building within the township shall obtain
and display an assigned address number. An address shall only be issued for a
public or a private road.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSIGNED ADDRESS NUMBER. An address number which has been designated for a
site by Detroit Edison prior to the effective date of this subchapter or by the
township agent after the effective date of this subchapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main building located on a parcel or lot. Garages,
pole barns and other buildings which are normally accessory to other structures
shall not be deemed to be PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS unless they are provided with a
separate electrical meter.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A non-public road which has been approved by the township in
compliance with the private road ordinance (§§
91.01 through
91.06 of this chapter). Easements and private drives shall not be deemed to be
PRIVATE ROADS.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.22 APPLICATION.
   All applicants for building permits for construction of a dwelling or other
principal building shall also apply for an address number for the structure
unless a number was previously assigned. The number shall be issued by the
designated agent of the township as soon as all required information is
provided by the applicant.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.23 POSTING.
   Each dwelling or other principal building on a parcel of land within the
township shall post the assigned address number. The number must be visible
from the road. Whenever a dwelling or principal building is located more than
100 feet from the center of a public or private road, or is otherwise difficult
to see from the road, the owner shall post the address number at the point at
which the driveway enters the public or private road.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 NUMERALS.
   Each posted address number shall consist of numerals at least three inches
in height and of a contrasting color to the attached surface.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever a new dwelling or other principal building is constructed, the
address number shall be posted in compliance with this subchapter at the time
construction is commenced. However, if the address number shall be posted
within 24 hours after being issued, . . . (missing material) . . .
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.26 MULTIPLE ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   Developments which need individual address numbers for locations with the
site shall comply as follows.
   (A)   Mobile home parks. The mobile home park shall be assigned a single
address number for the public road on which the park is located. Individual
home sites within the park shall be designated by that address number plus the
lot number of the site. Lots shall be consecutively numbered. Each internal
street shall have a continuously maintained sign indicating the range of lot
numbers on that street.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings. Each individual building shall receive an
address number. Each unit within that building shall receive a number which
includes the building address number plus a number indicating the floor and the
unit.
   (C)   Multiple unit building. All other principal buildings containing more
than one unit shall receive an address number. The individual unit number shall
be determined by the enforcement agent based upon the layout and location of
the structure.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 PRIVATE ROADS.
   In the event that the dwelling or principal building is located on a private
road, there shall also be erected a road sign identifying the name of the
private road, in conformity with county road signage requirements, where the
private road enters the public road. The name of the private road shall be
reviewed and approved by the designated agency for registry of private road
names within the county. In the event that a private drive or easement is
upgraded to a private road, any existing numbers shall be replaced with address
numbers based on the private road location.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   No address number or permit for a dwelling or principal building shall be
issued unless an application has been filed with Detroit Edison to acquire
access to electrical service. In lieu of a Detroit Edison service application,
an applicant may sign a waiver to the effect that electrical service has not
been verified.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.29 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Township Board shall designate a specific entity or official to serve as
the agent to administer and enforce this subchapter and shall establish a fee
to defray the administrative cost of issuing address numbers.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.99    PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or other organization, which violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or resists the enforcement
of any provision of §§
91.20 through
91.29, shall be fined upon conviction not more than $500 together with the
costs of prosecution, or shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail
for not more than 30 days for each offense, or may be both fined and imprisoned
at the discretion of the court. Each and every day during which such violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. The imposition of any sentence
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.29.
(Ord. 12, passed 3-9-1994)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Sale of lots or burial spaces
   
92.04   Purchase price and transfer fees
   
92.05   Grave opening charges
   
92.06   Markers or memorials
   
92.07   Interment regulations
   
92.08   Ground maintenance
   
92.09   Forfeiture of vacant cemetery lots or burial spaces
   
92.10   Repurchase of lots or burial spaces
   
92.11   Records
   
92.12   Vault
   
92.13   Cemetery hours
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the township cemetery chapter.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BURIAL SPACE. A land area 40 inches wide and nine feet in length.
   CREMATION BURIAL SPACES. A land area 40 inches wide by 60 inches long.
   INFANT OR STILLBORN BURIAL SPACE. A land area two feet wide and four feet in
length in areas set aside specifically for such burials.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 92.03 SALE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   Hereafter, cemetery lots or burial spaces shall be sold to residents
and nonresidents of the township for the purpose of the burial of such a
purchaser or his or her heirs at law or next of kin.
   (B)   Lots shall be sold by the Sexton or Township Clerk only.
   (C)   All such sales shall be made on a form approved by the Township Board,
which grants a right of burial only and does not convey any other title to the
lot or burial space sold. Such form shall be executed by the Township Clerk.
   (D)   Burial rights may only be transferred to those persons eligible to be
original purchasers of cemetery lots or burial spaces within the township and
may be effected only by endorsement of an assignment of such burial permit upon
the original burial permit form issued by the Township Clerk, approved by said
Clerk, and entered upon the official records of said Clerk. Upon such
assignment, approval and record, said Clerk shall issue a new burial permit to
the assignee and shall cancel and terminate upon such records, the original
permit thus assigned.
   (E)   No lot shall be used for any purpose other than the burial of human
remains.
   (F)   (1)   An entire lot shall be purchased at one time to be considered a
family plot.
      (2)   Family plots will be located in designated areas of the cemeteries.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 PURCHASE PRICE AND TRANSFER FEES.
   (A)   The Township Board will periodically alter cemetery fees to
accommodate increased costs and needed reserve funds for cemetery maintenance
and acquisition.
   (B)   All grave and perpetual care charges must be paid before burial takes
place.
   (C)   Any transfer of one or more burial spaces from an original purchaser
to a qualified assignee must pay perpetual care, if owed.
   (D)   All perpetual care henceforth must be paid when a lot is purchased.
   (E)   For pauper graves, the proper authorities will be contacted to help
pay for grave (Social Security, veterans, and state).
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 92.05 GRAVE OPENING CHARGES.
   (A)   The opening and closing of any burial space, prior to and following a
burial therein, and including the interment of ashes, shall be at a cost to be
determined from time to time by the Township Board.
   (B)   No burial spaces shall be opened and closed except under the direction
and control of the Cemetery Sexton. This provision shall not apply to
proceedings for the removal and reinterment of bodies and remains, which
matters are under the supervision of the local Health Department.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 MARKERS OR MEMORIALS.
   (A)   All markers or memorials must be of granite or marble. A temporary
marker may be placed for a period not to exceed 12 months.
   (B)   Any large upright marker must be located upon a suitable solid
foundation to maintain the same in an erect position.
   (C)   Only one marker or memorial shall be permitted per burial, with the
exception of a veteran stone.
   (D)   The footing or foundation upon which any marker or memorial must be
placed shall be constructed by the township at cost to the owner of the burial
right.
   (E)   Marker or memorials size shall not exceed 32 inches in height and 40
inches in width per grave.
   (F)   Bench style markers shall not exceed 36 inches in height, 40 inches in
width and 18 inches in depth. A bench style marker shall only be allowed on a
single grave site.
   (G)   Family plot markers must be approved by the Township Board. These
markers must conform to the uniformity of the cemetery.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 INTERMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only one person may be buried in a burial space except for a mother
and infant or two children buried at the same time.
   (B)   Not less than 36-hours’ notice shall be given in advance of any time
of any funeral to allow for the opening of the burial space.
   (C)   The appropriate permit for the burial space involved, together with
appropriate identification of the person to be buried therein, where necessary,
shall be presented to either the Cemetery Sexton or the Township Clerk prior to
interment. Where such permit has been lost or destroyed, the Township Clerk
shall be satisfied, from his or her records, that the person to be buried in
the burial space is an authorized and appropriate one before any interment is
commenced or completed.
   (D)   All graves shall be located in an orderly and neat appearing manner
within the confines of the burial space involved.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 GROUND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   To prevent injury to adjoining lots and to preserve the beauty of the
grounds, trees or shrubs shall not be planted, cut down, removed or trimmed.
Such work shall be done by the cemetery employees.
   (B)   The township reserves the right and responsibility of care to every
tree, shrub or vine growing within the cemetery enclosure, whether planted by
the lot owner or otherwise. The township also has the right of removal of the
same, when it considers such removal advisable. Trees will not be removed to
make additional burial space.
   (C)   Planting of borders around a lot or on each corner of a lot is
prohibited.
   (D)   Hedges, fences or enclosures of any kind will not be permitted on or
around lots. Wooden boxes, glass containers, bottles, toys, cans and other
unsightly objects will not be permitted and when used may be removed by the
township cemetery employees.
   (E)   U.S. flags will be permitted year round. They are to be cloth and not
to exceed eight inches by 11 inches. Flags must be placed in a brass flag
holder or permanent marker on headstone. When flags become torn or worn, they
will be removed by cemetery employees.
   (F)   Artificial flowers will be permitted all year round in a permanent
vase attached to the headstone or in a metal or plastic container with a
securing ground spike. Only two vases per grave are permitted. If they become
worn or unsightly, they will be removed by cemetery employees.
   (G)   Artificial wreaths and grave blankets will be permitted from November
15 until April 1. Such decorations will be removed by cemetery employees after
April 1.
   (H)   The placing of items inconsistent with the proper appearance of the
grounds will not be permitted. The township will not be responsible for loss or
damage to any portable articles left on any lot or grave.
   (I)   Shepard hooks with single hooks will be allowed, one on each grave.
They are to be placed near the headstone. No other metal designs will be
allowed.
   (J)   Vigil lights will be permitted, one on each grave, and must be placed
within 12 inches of the headstone.
   (K)   All headstones must be set by a township cemetery employee - no
exceptions.
   (L)   Only ground level edging within 12 inches of marker or memorial is
allowed.
   (M)   No decorative stones are allowed.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 FORFEITURE OF VACANT CEMETERY LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   Cemetery lots or burial spaces sold and remaining vacant 40 years after June
24, 1998 (original cemetery ordinance) shall automatically revert to the
township upon occurrence of the following events:
   (A)   Notice shall be sent by the Township Clerk by first class mail to the
last known address of the last owner of record informing him or her of the
expiration of the 40-year period and that all rights with respect to said lots
or spaces will be forfeited if he or she does not affirmatively indicate in
writing to the Township Clerk within 60 days from the date of mailing of the
written notice his or her desire to retain said burial rights; and
   (B)   No written response to said notice indicating a desire to retain the
cemetery lots or burial spaces in question is received by the Township Clerk
from the last owner of record of said lots or spaces or his heirs or legal
representative within 60 days from the date of mailing of said notice.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 92.10 REPURCHASE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   The township will repurchase any cemetery lot or burial space from the owner
for the original price paid the township upon written request of said owner or
his or her legal heirs or representatives.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 92.11 RECORDS.
   The Township Clerk shall maintain records concerning all burials, issuance
of burial permits, and any perpetual care fund, separate and apart from any
other records of the township and the same shall be open to public inspection
at reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005)
§ 92.12 VAULT.
   All burials shall be within a standard concrete vault installed or
constructed in each burial space before interment. Cremation remains must be in
an approved burial container (standard cremation urn, cremation vault or crush
resistant plastic). No wood containers are allowed.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 CEMETERY HOURS.
   (A)   The cemetery shall be open to the general public from the hours of
dawn to dusk of each day.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted in the township cemeteries at any time
other than the foregoing hours, except upon permission of the Township Board or
the Sexton.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-9-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: CLEAN COMMUNITY
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Uses prohibited
   
93.04   Enforcement; violations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   Blight, potential blight, certain environmental causes of blight or
blighting factors which exist or may in the fixture exist shall be prevented,
reduced or eliminated, as defined hereunder with penalties imposed as provided
for and allowed by the authority granted and vested in the township.
(Ord. 22, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIALS.  Includes but is not limited to lumber, bricks, concrete
or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating
ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws or any
other materials used in constructing any structures.
   JUNK.  Includes but is not limited to parts of motor vehicles, unused
household appliances, scrap metal or any other used materials of any kind.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.  Includes but is not limited to any motor vehicle which
is not licensed for use upon the highways of the state or which is inoperative.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type structure, primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either
has its own motor power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle which is
self powered. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE includes the following.
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER.  A vehicular portable structure mounted on wheels
and constructed with collapsible partial sidewalls of fabric, plastic, or other
pliable material which fold for towing by another vehicle and unfold at the
campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or
travel use.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular structure built on a self-propelled motor
vehicle chassis, primarily designed to provide temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use.
      (3)   SINGLE SECTIONAL MOBILE HOME. Used only to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use. Recreational unit which does
not include a mobile home used as a permanent dwelling, residence or living
quarters.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure, mounted on wheels,
of such a size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits
when drawn by a vehicle, primarily designed and constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use.
      (5)   TRUCK CAMPER.  A portable structure designed to be loaded onto, or
affixed to, the bed or chassis of a truck, constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use. TRUCK CAMPERS are of
two basic types:
         (a)   CHASSIS-MOUNT CAMPER. A portable structure designed to be
affixed to a truck chassis, and constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use; and
         (b)    SLIDE-IN CAMPER. A portable structure designed to be loaded
onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup truck, constructed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use.
   STRUCTURE. House trailers and any mobile living unit in the conditions
described below in § 93.03(G) or (H).
(Ord. 22, passed 1-14-1998)
§ 93.03 USES PROHIBITED.
   On and after the effective date of this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation of any kind shall maintain or permit to be maintained the following
uses, structures and activities upon any leased, owned or occupied property,
since they are causes of blight or blighting factors which if allowed to exist
will tend to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods, unless such
uses, structures and activities are otherwise allowed by township ordinances.
   (A)   Junk motor vehicles. The storage upon any property of junk motor
vehicle which is not in a completely enclosed building is prohibited.
   (B)   Abandoned vehicles. The abandonment or placement of any vehicle on
private property for a period of 24 continuous hours or more without consent of
the owner or occupant of the property, or for a period of 24 continuous hours
or more after the consent of the owner or occupant of property has been
revoked.
   (C)   Building materials.
      (1)   Structures requiring permit. The storage upon any property of
building materials unless there is in force a valid building permit issued by
the township for construction upon said property and said materials are
intended for use in connection with such construction.
      (2)   Structures not requiring permit. Materials used in constructing any
structure not requiring a permit shall be stored in a neat and orderly pile out
of public view from the roadway and shall be used for such construction within
one year or otherwise removed or stored in a completely enclosed building.
   (D)   Junk. The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish or refuse of
any kind without a landfill permit is illegal, except that domestic refuse
stored for a period not to exceed seven days in an enclosed container, building
or structure in such manner so as not to create a nuisance.
   (E)   Machinery and/or equipment. Machinery and/or equipment for outdoor
use, which is in good working order, must be housed or stored in an orderly
manner that is out of public view from the roadway and does not violate any
other township ordinance. Notwithstanding the above, however, operative
machinery that is in current use on the premises in relationship to a farming
or construction activity, is exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Vacant buildings. The existence of a vacant dwelling, garage, or other
out building, unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept
glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent casual entry
thereto by unauthorized persons.
   (G)   Inhabitable structures. The existence of any structure or part of any
structure which, because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable or is a dangerous structure or building as
defined under Public Act 61 of 1969, M.C.L.A. § 125.539, as amended, the
purpose thereby being to avoid injury to the children and others attracted to
such structures or mobile living units, the devaluation of property values and
the psychological ill effect of the presence of such upon adjoining residents
and property owners.
   (H)   Partially completed structure. The existence of any partially
completed structure unless such structure is in the course of construction in
accordance with a valid and existing building permit issued by the township,
and unless such construction is completed within a reasonable time, is
prohibited.
   (I)   Recreational vehicle. Locating and/or parking any recreational vehicle
within the township is prohibited except for one or more of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A person referred to in §
93.04 of this chapter may issue a temporary permit or visitor’s permit to park
a recreational unit to the owner of the property for a period not to exceed two
weeks; or
      (2)   All recreational vehicles owned by residents of the township and
stored on their individual lots shall be stored adjacent to a permanent
residence and shall be subject to all yard setback requirements of the
district, said recreational units shall not be connected to sanitary facilities
and shall not be permanently occupied.
(Ord. 22, passed 1-14-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by such persons who shall be so
designated by the Township Board.
   (B)   (1)   In the case where a violation of this chapter is found to exist
by the township's designated enforcement person, the owner of the property and
the occupant, if different than the owner, shall be given written notice of the
violation.
      (2)   The notice shall provide the following:
         (a)   The date of the notice.
         (b)   The address of the property where the blight conditions exist.
         (c)   The name and contact information for the Township enforcement
person issuing the notice.
         (d)   A description of the nature and location of the blight
conditions on the property.
         (e)   A statement that the blight conditions need to be removed within
ten days after the date of the notice.
         (f)   A statement that the failure to comply with the notice will
constitute a municipal civil infraction that will result in fines, the removal
of the items that result in the blight conditions, a lien against the property,
and/or other action consistent with this chapter and applicable law.
      (3)   The notice may be served 1) personally; 2) by U.S. Certified Mail
with return receipt requested; or 3) by posting the notice in a conspicuous
place on the property and sending it U.S. First Class Mail to the property
address and the address of the owner on file with the Township's Assessment
office if different than the property address.
   (C)   Additional time may be granted by the enforcement officer where
bonafide efforts to remove or eliminate such causes of blight or blighting
facts are in progress.
(Ord. 22, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2015)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties for failure of a person to comply with a notice of a violation
of this chapter shall result in the following penalties:
   (A)   The failure to comply will constitute a municipal civil infraction
under this chapter and result in a citation and fine, as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   In the case where the alleged violator admits responsibility, a
default is entered against the alleged violator, or the alleged violator is
found responsible for the municipal civil infraction by the presiding judge or
magistrate, the township may remove the blight conditions from the property and
dispose of any items removed from the property, or the township may employ a
contractor to perform this activity on its behalf. Upon the completion of this
activity, the township may charge the alleged violator for any cost and expense
associated with removing the blight conditions from the property and enforcing
the terms of this chapter, including the township's legal costs and attorney
fees.
   (C)   In the event the alleged violator fails to pay the amount charged
pursuant to division (B), above, within 30 days after the township provides an
invoice to the owner and the occupant, if different than the owner, in a manner
acceptable for service of a notice under §
93.04, the township may file an assessment lien against the property for the
amount of the invoice and enforce the lien in the same manner as unpaid real
property taxes or as otherwise permitted by law.
   (D)   A judge or magistrate presiding over a municipal civil infraction
issued under this chapter may make any other and further rulings determined by
the judge or magistrate to be appropriate.
(Ord. 22, passed 1-14-1998; Ord. 22, passed 7-8-2015)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Short title
   
94.02   Purpose
   
94.03   General prohibited noise
   
94.04   Specific noises prohibited; standards
   
94.05   Exceptions
   
94.06   Waiver
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Noise Ordinance of
Mussey Township.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the general public health, safety,
and welfare by prohibiting excessive, unnecessary, unnatural, or unusual loud
noise, or such noise which is prolonged, unusual, and unnatural in time, place,
and use, and which disturbs the peace, comfort or repose of the general public
or is otherwise detrimental to the public health, comfort, convenience, safety,
welfare, peace or prosperity.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 94.03 GENERAL PROHIBITED NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to make, maintain, or
continue, or cause to be made, maintained or continued, any excessive,
unnecessary, unnatural, repeated, prolonged or unusual loud noise, or any such
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, irritates or unreasonably impairs the
comfort, repose, health, or peace of another person or entity within the limits
of Mussey Township.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises within the
township, and for the occupant or person in possession or control of any
premises within the township, whether individual, corporate, or otherwise, to
knowingly make, allow, or permit to be made upon such premises so owned,
occupied, or possessed, any excessive, unnecessary, unnatural, repeated,
prolonged or unusual loud noise, or any such noise which annoys, disturbs,
injures, irritates, or unreasonably impairs the comfort, repose, health, or
peace of another person or entity within the limits of the township.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 94.04 SPECIFIC NOISES PROHIBITED; STANDARDS.
   The following noises and acts are hereby declared to be excessive,
unnecessary, unnatural, or unusually loud which annoy, disturb, injure, or
unreasonably impair the comfort, repose, health, or peace of others in
violation of this chapter, but such specification shall not to be construed to
exclude other noises prohibited by this chapter which are not specifically
enumerated:
   (A)   Horns and other signaling devices. The use and sounding of any hand-
held horn or signaling device or on any automobile, boat, bus, truck, or other
vehicle, except as a danger warning, in such a manner as to be continuous or
for an extended period of time such that it disturbs the quiet, peace, comfort
or repose of any person.
   (B)   Radios televisions and musical instruments. The playing of any radio,
television, or other electronic or mechanical sound-producing devise, including
any musical instrument, in such a manner or with such volume as to unreasonably
upset or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons. The operation
of any said radio, television, phonograph, musical instrument, or other such
sound-producing device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such
manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building,
structure, or vehicle in which it is located, or which is plainly audible in a
dwelling unit other than that in which it is located, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (C)   Yelling, shouting and verbal noise. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, singing or other verbal noise upon any premises, or upon the public
streets, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any other time or
place, in such a manner so as to unreasonably annoy or disturb peace, comfort,
or repose of persons in any office, dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence
or business, or of any persons in the vicinity where such noise is plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from its point of origin shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (D)   Animals birds or pets. The keeping of any animal, bird or pet which,
by frequent or extended noise, does unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of any person in the vicinity. Permitting any dog to bark repeatedly in
an area where such barking can be clearly heard from nearby residential
property or which is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from its point of
origin, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (E)   Exhaust noises. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, internal combustion engine, or any other form of engine, whether
in a boat, motor vehicle, motorcycle, off-road vehicle, or tractor, except
through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents or reduces loud or
explosive noises.
   (F)   Construction or repairing buildings. The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building or structure
other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. where such activity
results in the creation of unusually loud noise or noise which annoys,
disturbs, injures, or unreasonably impairs the comfort, repose, health, peace
or safety of others; except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety for the duration of such emergency.
   (G)   Business operation and other premises activities. The carrying on of
any business operations, or any other activities upon any premises in such a
manner so as to create any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise,
which disturbs, injures, or unreasonably impairs the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others.
   (H)   Pile drivers and other heavy equipment. The operation between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic
hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, or other form of heavy equipment the
use of which is attended by or repeated or continuous use.
   (I)   The operation of any race track, proving ground, testing area, or
obstacle course for vehicles, motorcycles, boat, racers, automobiles,
snowmobiles, off-road vehicles, or vehicles of any kind or nature in a
residential area of the township, or adjacent to a residential area of the
township where such noise emanating from the identified vehicles would be
unusually loud or continuous, or unreasonably disturbing, or upsetting to
persons in that vicinity.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 94.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The noise prohibitions set out hereinbefore shall not apply to the
following:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine, or other emergency vehicle
while engaged in necessary emergency activities.
   (B)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets, or highways, or other
property by or on behalf of the State of Michigan, Mussey Township, or St.
Clair County, between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, health,
safety or convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during other
hours.
   (C)   Noises emitted from warning devices for the purpose of notifying
individuals or the public at large as authorized by law.
   (D)   All railroad operations meeting the maximum permissible noise levels
allowed or permitted by law.
   (E)   Noise emanating from the discharge of firearms providing that such
discharge is otherwise authorized under Michigan law or local ordinance.
   (F)   Farm or business operations which are carried on in an area properly
zoned for that activity, providing that the activity causing the noise is
necessary to the farm or business operation.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 94.06 WAIVER.
   Permission to waive the provisions of this chapter may be granted by the
Township Board for specific events or social occasions.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, violation of this chapter
shall be deemed to be a municipal civil infraction, and any person, firm, or
entity who is issued a citation and found responsible therefore shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense. A violator of this
chapter may be subject to additional sanctions, remedies, injunctions or
judicial orders as authorized under Michigan Law. Each day a violation of this
chapter continues to exist constitutes a separate violation.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or entity who violates this chapter after being
issued a notice of violation or citation under division (A) above, such that an
authorized enforcement official or officer responds to the subsequent violation
at the same location within 48 hours of the prior incident, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than $500 and/or not more than
90 days in jail.
(Ord. 40, passed 12-12-2018)
CHAPTER 95: OUTDOOR ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   License required
   
95.03   Application; contents; fee; explanation of provision of services and
facilities
   
95.04   Application to be forwarded to certain township officials   
   
95.05   Denial of license
   
95.06   License conditions
   
95.07   Minimum requirements to be met
   
95.08   Revocation of license
   
95.09   Violations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDEE.  Any person who obtains admission to an outdoor assembly.
   LICENSEE.  Any person to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY.  Any event, attended by more than 250 attendees, all or
any part of which includes a theatrical exhibition, public show, display,
entertainment, musical festival or other exhibition. It shall not include any
event held entirely within the confines of a permanently enclosed and covered
structure, or an event which is conducted or sponsored by a governmental unit
or agency.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, partnership, corporation, association or
organization.
   SPONSOR.  Any person who organizes, promotes, conducts or causes to be
conducted an outdoor assembly.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sponsor, operate, maintain, conduct or promote an outdoor
assembly in the township unless the same shall first have obtained a license
for such assembly.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 APPLICATION; CONTENTS AND FEE; EXPLANATION OF PROVISION OF SERVICES AND
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application for a license to conduct an outdoor assembly must be made
in writing on such forms and in such manner as prescribed by the Township Clerk
and shall be made at least 15 days prior to date of the proposed assembly.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $100
and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, age, residence and mailing address of the person making
the application. Where the person making the application is a partnership,
corporation or association, this information shall be provided for all
partners, officers and directors;
      (2)   A statement of the kind, character and type of assembly;
      (3)   The address, legal description and proof of ownership or lease of
the site at which the proposed assembly is to be conducted;
      (4)   The date or dates and hours during which the proposed assembly is
to be conducted; and
      (5)   An estimate of the maximum number of attendees expected at the
assembly for each day it is conducted and a detailed explanation of the
evidence of admission which will be used and of the sequential numbering or
other method which will be used for accounting purposes.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation,
including drawings and diagrams where applicable, of the prospective licensee’s
plans to provide for the following:
      (1)   Police and fire protection;
      (2)   Food and water supply and facilities;
      (3)   Health and sanitation facilities;
      (4)   Medical facilities and services including emergency vehicles and
equipment;
      (5)   Vehicle access and parking facilities;
      (6)   Camping and trailer facilities;
      (7)   Illumination facilities;
      (8)   Communications facilities;
      (9)   Noise control and abatement;
      (10)   Facilities for clean up and waste disposal;
      (11)   Insurance and bonding arrangements; and
      (12)   In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a map of the
overall site, of the proposed assembly.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.04 APPLICATION TO BE FORWARDED TO CERTAIN TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS.
   On receipt by the Clerk, copies of the application shall be forwarded to the
Chief Law Enforcement, Fire and Health Officers for the township.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.05 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A license may be denied if the applicant fails to comply with any
requirements of this section, with any conditions imposed pursuant hereto, or
with any other applicable provision of state or local law.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.06 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   A license shall specify the name and address of the licensee, the kind and
location of the assembly, the maximum number of attendees permissible, the
duration of the license and any other conditions imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.07 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET.
   The following minimum requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Security personnel. The licensee shall employ at his or her own
expense such security personnel as are necessary and sufficient to provide for
the adequate security and protection of the maximum number of attendees at the
assembly and for the preservation of order and protection of property in and
around the site of the assembly.
   (B)   Restroom facilities. The licensee shall provide lavatory and drinking
water facilities constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with
applicable state and local law. All lavatories shall be provided with hot and
cold water and soap and paper towels. The number and type of facilities
required shall be determined, on the basis of the number of attendees, in the
following manner:
 
Facilities         Male  Female
Toilets            1:300 1:200
Urinals            1:100
Lavatories         1:200 1:200
Drinking Fountains    1:500
 
   (C)   Food service. If food service is made available on the premises, it
shall be delivered only through concessions licensed and operated in accordance
with the provisions of Act 269 of Public Acts of 1968, and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any other
applicable state or local law.
   (D)   Liquid waste disposal. The licensee shall provide for liquid waste
disposal in accordance with all rules and regulations pertaining thereto
established by the Thumb District Health Department.
   (E)   Solid waste disposal. The licensee shall provide for solid waste
storage on, and removal from, the premises. Storage shall be in approved,
covered, fly-tight and rodent-proof containers, provided in sufficient quantity
to accommodate the number of attendants.
   (F)   Access and traffic control. The licensee shall provide for ingress to
and egress from the premises so as to insure the orderly flow of traffic onto
and off of the premises. Access to the premises shall be from a highway or road
which is a part of the county system of highways or which is a highway
maintained by the State of Michigan. Traffic lanes and other space shall be
provided, designated, and kept open for access by ambulance, fire equipment,
and other emergency vehicles.
   (G)   Parking. The licensee shall provide a parking area sufficient to
accomodate all motor vehicles, but in no case shall he or she provide less than
one automobile space for every two attendees.
   (H)   Camping and trailer parking. A licensee who permits attendants to
remain on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m, and 6:00 a.m. shall
provide for camping and trailer parking and facilities in accordance with
applicable provision of state law.
   (I)   Illumination. The licensee shall provide electrical illumination of
all occupied areas sufficient to insure the safety and comfort of all
attendants. The licensee’s lighting plan shall be approved by the Township
Building Inspector.
   (J)   Insurance. Before the issuance of a license, the licensee shall obtain
public liability insurance of not less than $300,000 and property damage
insurance of not less than $25,000.
   (K)   Bonding. Before the issuance of a license, the licensee shall obtain a
surety bond in an amount set by the Township Board, not in excess of $50,000,
conditioned upon the licensee’s faithful compliance with all of the provisions
of this chapter and all applicable provisions of state or local law, and which
shall indemnify the township, its agents, officers, and employees and the
township against any loss, injury, or damage whatever arising out of the
assembly and which shall indemnify the owners of property adjoining the
assembly site for any costs attributable to cleaning up and/or removing debris,
trash, or other waste resultant from the assembly.
   (L)   Fire protection. The licensee shall, at his or her own expense, take
adequate steps as determined by the Fire Chief, to insure fire protection.
   (M)   Sound producing equipment, including but not limited to, public
address systems, radios, phonographs, musical instruments and other recording
devices, shall not be operated on the premises of the assembly so as to be
unreasonably loud or raucous, or so as to be a nuisance or disturbance to the
peace and tranquility of the citizens of the township.
   (N)   Any program at an outdoor assembly shall terminate no later than 2:00
a.m.
   (O)   Miscellaneous. Prior to the issuance of a license, the Township Board
may impose any other conditions reasonably calculated to protect the health,
safety, welfare and property of attendants or of citizens of the township.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Township Board may revoke a license whenever the licensee, his or her
employee or agent fails, neglects or refuses to fully comply with any
requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, his or her employee, or agent, to
knowingly:
      (1)   Advertise, promote, sell tickets to, conduct, or operate an outdoor
assembly without first obtaining a license as herein provided;
      (2)   Conduct or operate an assembly in such a manner as to create a
public or private nuisance;
      (3)   Permit any person on the premises to cause or create a disturbance
in, around, or near the assembly by obscene or disorderly conduct;
      (4)   Permit any person to unlawfully consume, sell, or possess,
intoxicating liquor while on the premises; or
      (5)   Permit any person to unlawfully use, sell, or possess any
narcotics, drugs or other substances defined in Act 343, Public Acts of 1952.
   (B)   Any of the above enumerated violations is a separate offense, is a
nuisance per se immediately enjoinable in the circuit courts.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of §
95.09 is punishable by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90
days or by a fine of not more than $500, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 2, passed 6-13-1979)
CHAPTER 96: KEY LOCK BOXES
Section
   
96.01   Intent
   
96.02   Key lock box system
   
96.03   Installation and location
   
96.04   Enforcement
   
96.05   Fines
   
96.06   Applicability
   
96.07   Optional applicability
   
96.08   Security
   
96.09   Compliance
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The township recognizes the importance and need of providing the Fire
Department rapid entry into locked buildings/structures. Delays in the Fire
Department gaining rapid entry reduces the occupants chance for survival in a
fire, the chances for substantial property damage increases because of delays,
and for fire fighter safety and survival may be compromised because of said
entry delays. Additionally, delays in providing prompt pre-hospital care to the
sick and injured as a result of locked/secured structures may/will have a
negative outcome on patient recovery.
   (B)   To assist the Fire Department in gaining rapid entry into locked/
secured buildings/structures, the township Hereby adopts a rapid entry system
ordinance utilizing the " Box" rapid entry key box system.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
§ 96.02 KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   As per § 506, “Key Boxes”, 506.1 through 506.2, 2015 International
Fire Code and Chapter 18, “Fire Department Access and Water Supply”, 18.2.2
through 18.2.2.1, 2015 NFPA 1 National Fire Code, the following buildings/
structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or near the main entrance
or such other location required by the Township Fire Chief, his or her designee
or authority having jurisdiction, AHJ. The required key lock box shall become
effective as stated upon ordinance acceptance.
      (1)   All commercial and industrial buildings. All commercial and
industrial buildings/structures shall mean buildings where industry, trade, or
business is carried on or where any process or operation, directly or
indirectly related to any industry, trade or business, is carried on and where
any person in employed by another for direct or indirect gain or profit.
      (2)   All multi-family residential buildings. All multi-family
residential structures comprised of four or more units in which access to the
buildings or common areas or mechanical or electrical rooms within the building
are denied through locked doors.
      (3)   Any buildings or facilities with hazardous materials. Any
buildings/structures or facility which handles, uses, or stores hazardous
materials and/or is required to prepare the emergency services, material safety
data sheets (MSDS) or hazardous chemical inventory forms under the Superfund
Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA Title III). This includes any
facility, firm or corporation operating structures that handle, use or store
hazardous materials.
      (4)   Governmental structures.
      (5)   Municipal structures.
      (6)   Nursing care facilities.
      (7)   Educational facilities.
      (8)   All places of assembly, including churches.
      (9)   All buildings/structures which are protected with an automatic fire
suppression or standpipe system and is not manned during a 24-hour, seven-day-
a-week operation, shall be equipped with a key lock box.
      (10)   All buildings/structures which are protected by an automatic fire
alarm system (auto dialer, central station, external audible alarm) shall be
equipped with a key lock box.
   (B)   All newly constructed buildings/structures subject to this chapter
shall have the key lock box installed and operational prior to the final
inspection and final occupancy. The Building Code Official shall not issue
final occupancy permit for said building/structure until it has final written
approval for key lock box from the Township Fire Department.
   (C)   All existing buildings/structures subject to this ordinance shall have
the key lock box installed and operational as stated in §
96.09, compliance, below.
   (D)   The Township Fire Chief, his or her designee, or the authority having
jurisdiction, AHJ, shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented with the township and shall have authority to require all
structures to use the designated rapid entry system.
   (E)   The owner operator of a building/structure required to have a key lock
box shall, at all times, keep keys and information in the key lock box that
will allow for access to the following:
      (1)   Keys to locked points of egress, whether on the interior or
exterior of such building/structures;
      (2)   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
      (3)   Keys to lock electrical rooms;
      (4)   Keys to elevator controls, elevator machine rooms;
      (5)   Keys to other areas as required by the Township Fire Chief after
written notice;
      (6)   Keys to any fenced or secured exterior areas;
      (7)    A card containing the emergency contact people and phone numbers
for such building/structure;
      (8)   Keys to areas of the building/structure where fire alarm panels and
fire protection systems are located;
      (9)   An inventory of keys is to be posed inside all key lock boxes;
      (10)   In lieu of having the interior building/structure keys in the
exterior key lock box, a second key lock box may be located within the main
lobby of the building/structure to hold these keys.
   (F)   The Township Fire Chief, his or her designee, or the authority having
jurisdiction, AHJ, shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations for
the use of the key lock box system.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
§ 96.03 INSTALLATION AND LOCATION.
   (A)   All “Knox Boxes” (and/or Knox Locking Vaults) shall be recessed or
surfaced mounted into/onto the building/structure at a height or not less than
six feet above finish surface grade. All Knox Boxes (and/or Knox Locking
Vaults) shall be located directly or as close as reasonably possible to the
main entrance to the building/structure.
   (B)   A permit/registration with the Township Fire Department is required
prior to installation of a Knox Box in order to verify the proper mounting
location and installation of said Knox Box. If a permit/registration fee is
required, the fee will be set in a corresponding resolution as periodically
amended.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be accomplished through citations issued
by the Township Fire Chief, his or her designee, or by the authority having
jurisdiction, AHJ, or by the Township Building Official.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
§ 96.05 FINES.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$50, plus costs of enforcement, including reasonable attorney fees and court
costs.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
§ 96.06 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to owner occupied one- and two-family
dwellings and individual townhouse units. For the purpose of this chapter
individual townhouse units are to be considered single-family units.
   (B)   This chapter includes any commercial and industrial buildings/
structures, multi-family residential and apartment complexes, building/
structures that have restricted access through locked doors, governmental and
municipal buildings/structures, nursing care facilities, educational buildings/
structures, and places of assembly including churches and other at risk
properties.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
§ 96.07 OPTIONAL APPLICABILITY.
   Owners or occupants of one- and two-family dwellings and townhouse units may
utilize the key lock box system upon consultation and with issuance of a proper
permit/registration by the Township Fire Department Chief, his or her designee,
or the authority having jurisdiction, AHJ. The key lock box shall be a Knox
brand of a type and size for a residential structure.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
§ 96.08 SECURITY.
   No steps, displays, signs, fixtures, plantings, or structure protrusions
shall be located under the key lock box which would allow intruders to access/
vandalize the key lock box without assistance.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09 COMPLIANCE.
   All newly constructed buildings/structures not yet occupied or buildings/
structures currently under construction and all buildings/structures or
businesses applying for final certificate of occupancy, shall comply
immediately approval of this chapter.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to install the key lock box after 30 days according to the written
direction of the Township Fire Department shall enable the Township Fire
Department to purchase and install said key lock box at the owner's expense.
The owner of a building/structure so designated to install a key lock box can
appeal the Township Fire Department written direction to the Township Appeals
Board within 30 days after notification to do so.
(Ord. 35, passed 3-9-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
110.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   Authority
   
110.04   Effective date
   
110.05   Consistency and repeal
   
110.06   Geographic area
   
110.07   Construction and severability
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter is known as the Mussey Township Prohibition of Marihuana
Establishments Ordinance.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, Initiated
law 1 of 2018, Mussey Township elects to prohibit recreational marihuana
establishments within its boundaries.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.03 AUTHORITY.
   The chapter is adopted under Mussey Township’s authority to preserve the
public peace, health, safety and welfare pursuant to Public Act 246 of 1945,
Township Ordinances, M.C.L.A. 41.181 et seq. and the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marihuana Act, Initiated law 1 of 2018.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective the day after its publication as
authorized by law.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.05 CONSISTENCY AND REPEAL.
   All existing ordinances or part of ordinances are to be interpreted as
consistent with this chapter and the laws of the State of Michigan. Any
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed. Nothing in this chapter results in any
prohibitions otherwise allowed under the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act, Initiated law 1 of 2018 or the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act,
Initiated law 1 of 2008.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.06 GEOGRAPHIC AREA.
   This chapter shall have the regulatory effect to prohibit marihuana
establishments in all geographic areas of Mussey Township to the fullest extent
allowed by law.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.07 CONSTRUCTION AND SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to protect and preserve the peace,
health, safety and welfare of the people of Mussey Township, and should any
provision of this chapter be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed
as affecting the validity of any of the remaining provisions, it being the
intent of the Township Board that each and every provision of this chapter is
important regardless of the invalidity of any one or more other provisions.
Except as provided herein, the remainder of this chapter shall remain in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates this chapter is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and a fine not to exceed $500. Nothing in this
chapter prohibits enforcement for injunctive and declaratory relief in a court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-12-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Use of alcohol and drugs at open house parties
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 USE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS AT OPEN HOUSE PARTIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT. A person 17 years of age or older.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% of alcohol by
weight. The percentage of alcohol by weight shall be determined in accordance
with the provisions of Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A. § 436.1105, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
      CONTROL. Any form of regulation or dominion including a possessory right.
      DRUG. A controlled substance as defined now or hereafter by the Public
Acts of the State of Michigan. Currently, such controlled substances are
defined by Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 333.7105.
      MINOR. A person not legally permitted by reason of age to possess
alcoholic beverages pursuant to Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A. § 436.1109, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
      OPEN HOUSE PARTY. A social gathering of persons at a residence other than
the owner or those with rights of possession or their immediate family members.
      RESIDENCE. A home, apartment, condominium or other dwelling unit and
includes the curtilage of such dwelling unit.
   (B)   Responsibility of adult having control of residence. No adult having
control of any residence shall allow an open house party to take place at said
residence if any alcoholic beverage or drug is possessed or consumed at said
residence by any minor where the adult knew or reasonably should have known
that an alcoholic beverage or drug was in the possession of or being consumed
by a minor at said residence, and where the adult failed to take reasonable
steps to prevent the possession or consumption of the alcoholic beverage or
drug at said residence.
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to legally
protected religious observances or legally protected educational activities.
(Ord. 7, passed 1-13-1988) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalties for violation of §
130.01 shall be as follows.
      (1)   For the first violation, a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment
in the county jail for a term not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   For subsequent violations, a fine not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed 90 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 7, passed 1-13-1988)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GEOTHERMAL DRAINAGE
      
151.   PROPERTY DIVISION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GEOTHERMAL DRAINAGE
Section
   
150.01   Intent
   
150.02   Sub-surface drainage system (closed systems)
   
150.03   Applications, submittal and review procedures
   
150.04   Liability
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 INTENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that certain structures in the township are being
equipped with geothermal heat pumps. It is further recognized that geothermal
heat pumps use groundwater which, if not properly drained, can cause excess
wetness or flooding, resulting in undesirable conditions.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate the design, installation
and operation of these systems and provide standards for the location and
management of water drainage caused by their operation.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-12-1997)
§ 150.02 SUB-SURFACE DRAINAGE SYSTEM (CLOSED SYSTEMS).
   (A)   Owners of structures within the township equipped with geothermal heat
pumps must have a closed system to properly maintain the water occasioned by
the operation of the heat pumps.
   (B)   A CLOSED SYSTEM is defined as a system which relies on the contained
circulation of fluids through an underground pipe circuit.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-12-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 APPLICATIONS, SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All proposed geothermal heat pump systems shall be reviewed and
approved in conformance with this chapter and all applicable codes.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall review all plans for geothermal heat pump
systems in conjunction with the review and approval of building permits. All
geothermal heat pump systems require a building permit.
   (C)   Applications for sub-surface (closed loop) geothermal systems shall be
accompanied by a site plan which details the design and location of the
proposed system, including anticipated flow rates and infiltration rates.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-12-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 LIABILITY.
   Owners of geothermal heat pump systems shall be liable for any damage caused
by drainage of water from their systems.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-12-1997) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor which shall be punished
upon conviction thereof by a fine not to exceed $500 and/or imprisonment not to
exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 15, passed 3-12-1997)
CHAPTER 151: PROPERTY DIVISION
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Division of lots and acreage parcels
   
151.05   Application requirements and procedures
   
151.06   Review process
   
151.07   Divisions not approved by township
   
151.08   Standards for review
   
151.09   Time frame for review and approval
   
151.10   Application for building permits
   
151.11   Applications involving private roads
   
151.12   (Reserved)
   
151.13   (Reserved)
   
151.14   Relationship to other laws and ordinances
   
Appendix A: Application for Land Division
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Township Property Division
Chapter.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority and purposes conferred by Public Act 591 of 1996,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., the Land Division Act, as amended, this
chapter provides standards, procedures, rules and regulations related to the
division of properties within the township, provides for the relationship of
this chapter to other laws and ordinances and provides for the penalties for
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
defined shall have the meaning as set forth in the township zoning ordinance
and Public Act 591 of 1996, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., the Land
Division Act.
   ACREAGE PARCEL. Any parcel of land which is not within an approved and
recorded plat or condominium development.
   DIVIDE or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of an acreage parcel or
tract into two or more parcels for purposes of sale, lease or building
development.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land which is described and
fixed in a recorded plat.
   PARENT PARCEL or PARENT TRACT. An acreage parcel or tract, respectively,
lawfully in existence on March 31, 1997.
   RESULTING PARCEL. The acreage parcel(s) which result from an approved
division.
   TRACT. Two or more acreage parcels that share a common property line and are
under the same ownership.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.04 DIVISION OF LOTS AND ACREAGE PARCELS.
   Any lot, acreage parcel or tract which is divided or proposed to be divided
after the effective date of this chapter, shall be reviewed and approved in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application to divide a lot, acreage parcel or tract shall be made on
forms provided by the township.
   (B)   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Township Clerk
for review and approval of a proposed land division before making any division
either by deed, land contract, lease or for building development:
      (1)   Names, addresses and phone numbers of all owners of record,
including all parties to a land contract or purchase agreement, and their
signatures. Separate written consent to the proposed division by fee simple
owners may be accepted by the township in lieu of signatures on the application
form;
      (2)   The applicant’s name, address, phone number and signature;
      (3)   The parcel identification number(s) of the parent parcel or parent
tract;
      (4)   A true and accurate survey, including both a drawing to scale and
full legal description, of the parent parcel or tract and of all parcels which
would result from the proposed division of the parent parcel or tract. The
survey shall include the following:
         (a)   All dimensions of existing and proposed property lines and
easements;
         (b)   Location of all existing buildings, wetlands, lakes, streams,
ponds, drives, public and private roads, easements, wells and septic fields,
including setbacks from all property lines;
         (c)   The size (in square feet and acres) of each resulting parcel;
         (d)   The proposed location and type of access to each resulting
parcel. (Where a private road is proposed separate application and conformance
with §§
91.01 through
91.06 is required); and
         (e)   Setbacks from property lines to all proposed buildings, drives,
easements, wells and septic systems.
      (5)   Written verification and proof of ownership, by warranty deed, quit
claim deed, land contract or other legal document of conveyance, which
identifies the owner(s) of the parent parcel or parent tract;
      (6)   A written statement, signed and attached to the application form by
the applicant and all owners of record, stating whether the right to make
further divisions exempt from the platting process requirements of Public Act
591 of 1996, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., the Land Division Act, has been
transferred or otherwise conveyed;
      (7)   A written statement, signed and attached to the application form by
the applicant and all owners of record, stating that: “The deeds for all
resulting parcels that are the subject of this application shall contain the
following statement: This property may be located within the vicinity of
farmland or a farm operation. Generally accepted agricultural and management
practices which may generate noise, dust, odors and other associated conditions
may be used and are protected by the State Right To Farm Act”, Public Act 93 of
1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 et seq.;
      (8)   Additional information may be required by the township to verify
application information, geographic site data or to clarify status of other
governmental reviews and approvals; and
      (9)   All applicable review fees as established by resolution of the
Township Board.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.06 REVIEW PROCESS.
   All applications for proposed divisions of lots or acreage parcels shall be
reviewed in conformance with the following process.
   (A)   Two resulting parcels or lots. If the proposed division will create
two resulting parcels, or involves a division and recombination with another
adjoining property, the following procedure will be followed.
      (1)   Applicant submits three copies of the information required in §
151.05 to the Township Clerk.
      (2)   The Township Clerk forwards copies of all application materials to
the Township Assessor, and to the Planner and Engineer, if requested by the
Clerk or Assessor.
      (3)   The Township Clerk and Assessor review the application package for
completeness, accuracy and conformance with zoning requirements for lot area,
width, frontage and width-to-depth ratio within 45 days.
      (4)   Any division that does not comply with township zoning requirements
for lot area, width, frontage or width-to-depth ratio shall not be approved.
Variances from these requirements shall only be granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals (ZBA), which requires a separate application and review fee.
      (5)   If all required information has been submitted in accordance with §
151.05, and all information and the proposed divisions demonstrate conformance
with this chapter, the Clerk and Assessor shall grant approval of the division
(s). If the proposed application and division do not comply with this chapter,
the application shall be denied. All approvals and denials shall be in writing.
      (6)   Where a private road is proposed as a part of any division
application, review and approval of the private road(s) shall be in accordance
with §§
91.01 through
91.06. The review and approval of proposed private roads shall occur prior to
final approval of the proposed division(s).
   (B)   More than two parcels/lots; or if any road is proposed. If the
proposed division will create more than two resulting parcels, or requires
construction of a road, review and approval by the Planning Commission is
required in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Applicant submits ten copies of the information required in §
151.05 to the Township Clerk at least 21 days prior to the next regular
Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   Township Clerk forwards copies of application materials to Planning
Commission, Township Assessor, Planner and engineer for their review.
      (3)   Planning Commission, Township Assessor and Planner review
application package for completeness, accuracy, conformance with zoning
requirements for lot area, width, frontage and width-to-depth ratio.
      (4)   Divisions that do not comply with township zoning requirements for
lot area, width, frontage or width-to-depth ratio shall not be approved.
Variances from these requirements shall only be granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals (ZBA), which requires a separate application and review fee.
      (5)   Upon finding that the proposed divisions meet all applicable
ordinance requirements, the Township Planning Commission shall recommend
approval of the split. If the proposed application and division does not comply
with this chapter, the Planning Commission shall recommend conditional approval
or denial. All recommendations for approvals, conditional approvals, and
denials shall be in writing.
      (6)   Following Planning Commission review and recommendation, the
Township Clerk and Assessor shall:
         (a)   Verify that all conditions of Planning Commission approval have
been met (if applicable); and
         (b)   Verify Planning Commission and Township Board approval of any
private road(s) proposed in conjunction with the proposed division(s).
      (7)   The Township Clerk and Assessor shall grant final approval of the
proposed division(s) upon verification of the information in division (B)(1)
above.
      (8)   After final approval, the Assessor shall process the proposed
division(s), Lands and Graphics will assign and issue new parcel identification
number(s), and update taxation and assessment records accordingly.
      (9)   Where a public road is proposed as a part of any division
application, review and approval of the private road(s) shall be in accordance
with §§
91.01 through
91.06. The review and approval of proposed private roads shall occur prior to
final approval of the proposed division(s).
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Private roads, see §§
91.01 through
91.06
§ 151.07 DIVISIONS NOT APPROVED BY TOWNSHIP.
   Divisions that have not been approved by the township shall not constitute
valid divisions under the terms of this chapter, shall not be placed on the tax
roles and shall not be eligible for any development or activity requiring a
building permit from the township.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.08 STANDARDS FOR REVIEW.
   Applications for all land divisions shall meet the following standards prior
to approval.
   (A)   All resulting parcels created by a division, including the remainder
of the parent parcel, shall comply with Township zoning ordinance requirements
for minimum lot area, width, frontage and width to depth ratio.
   (B)   Public or private road rights-of-way and/or easements shall not be
included in calculations for determining lot area or width.
   (C)   The layout and design of land divisions and lot splits shall
demonstrate that any future divisions will be logical and promote sound
community planning and design.
   (D)   Divisions shall be designed to facilitate provision of emergency
services and logical extensions of future public utilities.
   (E)   Divisions shall be designed to reduce the need for excessive numbers
of driveways onto adjacent roads.
   (F)   Minimum lot width shall be measured from the edge of the existing
right-of-way or easement of the public or private road.
   (G)   Corner parcels shall be least 20% wider than the minimum lot width
required in the zoning ordinance.
   (H)   No parcel shall require driveway lengths in excess of 600 feet.
   (I)   Adjoining lots shall not have a front yard to rear yard relationship,
where houses on the same side of the same street are situated behind one
another.
   (J)   The proposed division is in compliance with Public Act 591 of 1996,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., the Land Division Act, as amended.
   (K)   Where a private road is proposed, said road is in conformance with §§
91.01 through
91.06 and has been approved by the Township Board after recommendation by the
Planning Commission.
   (L)   Adequate easements for public utilities from the parcel to existing
public utility facilities are provided.
   (M)   The parent parcel and resulting parcels do not include any parcels or
lots within a condominium development approved by the township.
   (N)   If the proposed division creates resulting parcels that are less than
the minimum lot area or size required by Public Act 591 of 1996, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 560.101 et seq., the Land Division Act, as amended, or the township zoning
ordinance, the applicant shall also file with the township a duly executed
affidavit, suitable in form for recording with the County Register of Deeds,
signed by all persons having a legal or equitable interest in the resulting
parcel(s), stating that the resulting parcel(s) will not thereafter be
developed or used separately, but only in conjunction with adjoining parcels
which, when joined together, shall satisfy the minimum lot area and size
requirements of Public Act 591 of 1996, as amended, and the township zoning
ordinance.
   (O)   Payment of all taxes due on the parent parcel or parent tract is
required.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.09 TIME FRAME FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The township shall have at least 45 days from the date of submittal of
a complete application to review the proposed division to verify that it
complies with Public Act 591 of 1996, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., the
Land Division Act, as amended, other applicable statutes of the state, and all
ordinances of the township. Applications requiring Planning Commission review
must be received by the Township Clerk at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
   (B)   Where a private road is proposed in conjunction with any proposed
division, review and approval of said road in conformance with §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall occur concurrently with application for property division. An
application for property division may not be considered complete until approval
of the private road in conformance with §§
91.01 through
91.06.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Private roads, see §§
91.01 through
91.06
§ 151.10 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   After the effective date of this chapter, prior to the issuance of any
building permit for construction upon a resulting parcel, the applicant for the
building permit shall provide the following to the Township Building Inspector.
   (A)   Written verification and evidence of approval of the division of the
subject parcel by the township.
   (B)   A copy of the survey, with legal description and drawing of said
parcel(s) of property.
   (C)   A recorded copy of the legal document which establishes the
applicant’s ownership interest in the property.
   (D)   The parcel identification (tax) number which has been assigned to the
subject property.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.11 APPLICATIONS INVOLVING PRIVATE ROADS.
   An application for approval of a division that involves the construction of
a private road must comply with the following requirements before the division
will be approved:
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
§ 151.12 (RESERVED).
§ 151.13 (RESERVED).
§ 151.14 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   Whenever regulations or restrictions imposed by this chapter are either more
or less restrictive than regulations or restrictions imposed by governmental
authority through legislation, rule or regulation, the more restrictive
regulations or those which impose the higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION
1.   Applicant
      Name_________________________________________   Telephone_____________________
      Address______________________________   City___________________   Zip_________
2.   Submissions Attached Are:
      3 copies of proof of ownership of parent parcel (recorded legal document
of conveyance) including legal description
      3 copies of legal description * of proposed split(s) and remaining parent
parcel
      3 copies of all required County review
      9 copies of current survey* of proposed split(s) and remaining parent
parcel (only 3 copies are needed if making 2 splits)
      9 copies of this Application Form (only 3 copies are needed if making 2
splits)
* - Prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor or Licensed Civil Engineer. Survey
must show existing structures, wetlands, lakes, streams, ponds, drives, public
and private roads, easements, wells and septic fields on all parcels related to
application.
3.   Application
      A.   Original Parent Parcel Size                            Acres
      B.   Size of Lot(s) to be split from parent parcel
                     Acres
      C.   Remaining Parent Parcel Size                         Acres
      D.   Location of Proposed Land Division:
            Section #      Nearest Cross Road:_____________________
      E.   Parent Parcel ID#__________________________________________
Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting parcels comply
with other ordinances or regulations.
_______________________________________       Name Printed:
___________________________
Applicant (owner’s) Signature
We hereby certify that the above was   Approved or   Denied for the reason
that:
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________   _________________________   __________________________
Township Assessor         Township Clerk         Planning Commission
(Ord. 19, passed 12-10-1997)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Definitions
Plat Processing
   
152.15   Review procedure
   
152.16   Tentative preliminary plat subdivision requirements
   
152.17   Final preliminary plat subdivision requirements
   
152.18   Final plat submission and approval requirements
   
152.19   Assessor’s plat
   
152.20   Review and approval criteria
Design Standards and Public Improvements
   
152.35   Plats to meet approval of township
   
152.36   Streets
   
152.37   Blocks
   
152.38   Lots
   
152.39   Credits for public dedications
   
152.40   Trees and natural features
   
152.41   Greenbelts
   
152.42   Flood hazard areas
   
152.43   Topsoil
   
152.44   Required conditions
   
152.45   Utility improvements
   
152.46   Other improvements
Administrative Provisions
   
152.60   Review fees
   
152.61   Variance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Subdivision Review Processing Requirements
   
Appendix B: Application for Subdivision Approval
   
Appendix C: Schedule of Subdivision Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the township
subdivision regulations chapter.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority and purposes conferred by the Public Acts of the
state, this chapter is designed to provide standards, procedures, rules and
regulations related to the making and filing of plats, to provide standards for
layout and design and to provide a method for preliminary and final approval or
rejection thereof and to provide for the penalties for violation of the
provisions thereof.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All terms
as defined in the State Subdivision Control Act of 1967, Public Act 288 of
1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., and the township’s adopted zoning
ordinance shall control unless specifically defined hereinafter.
   BLOCK. Property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and railroad
right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, lake, river, or live stream; or between any
of the foregoing and any other similar physical barrier to the continuity of
development.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of the use of land by the public, a
corporation or persons, for specific uses and purposes, to be designated as a
public or private easement depending on the nature of the use.
   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision substantially in
conformance with the preliminary plat of the subdivision prepared as required
by the State Subdivision Control Act and this chapter, suitable for recording
by the County Register of Deeds and State Treasurer’s Office.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains and lines, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, culverts,
bridges, utilities and other additions to the natural condition of the land.
   MASTER PLAN, GENERAL PLAN or BASIC PLAN. The township Master Plan, including
graphics and written text, adopted by the Planning Commission on August 2,
1982, including all subsequent amendments or additions thereto.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security including performance bonds, escrow
agreements, cash deposits, irrevocable bank letters of credit, and other
similar collateral or surety agreements, which may be accepted by the Township
Board as a guarantee that required subdivision improvements will be made by the
subdivider.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of preliminary
consideration prepared in conformance with the State Subdivision Control Act
and this chapter.
   SHALL and MAY. The word SHALL is mandatory and the word MAY is permissive.
   SUBDIVIDER. The same as PROPRIETOR.
   WETLANDS. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances does
support, wetland vegetation or aquatic life and is commonly referred to as a
bog, swamp or marsh and is shown on the National Wetlands Inventory Maps for
the Capac or Allenton quadrangles, as published by the U.S. Department of the
Interior.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
PLAT PROCESSING
§ 152.15 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The accompanying chart in Appendix A entitled Subdivision Review Processing
Requirements is hereby made part of this chapter and shall be followed as the
procedure for the review of all submitted plats.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Identification and description. The following items are required:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, town and range, or by other legal description;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner and the planner,
landscape architect, designer, engineer or surveyor who designed the
subdivision layout. The subdivider shall also indicate his or her interest in
the land; and
      (4)   Date, northpoint and scale of plat, one inch equals 100 feet is the
minimum acceptable scale.
   (B)   Existing conditions. The following are required:
      (1)   An overall area location map at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 400 feet;
      (2)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, section or municipal limits
within or adjacent to the tract and overall property dimensions;
      (3)   Property lines of contiguous adjacent tracts of subdivided and
unsubdivided land within 200 feet from the proposed plat;
      (4)   Location, widths and names of existing or prior platted streets and
private streets, public areas and public easements within or adjacent to the
tract being proposed for subdivision, including those located across abutting
roads;
      (5)   Location of existing utilities, storm drains and other underground
facilities within or adjacent to the tract being proposed for subdivision;
      (6)   Drainage patterns;
      (7)   Topography based on United States Geological Survey Datum, at a
minimum contour interval of two feet; and
      (8)   Vegetation on the site carefully inventoried and sketched as to
type and location on a map at the same scale as the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Proposed conditions. A refined illustration showing the information
indicated below shall be submitted as the preliminary plat drawing.
      (1)   Layout of streets indicating proposed street names, right-of-way
widths and connections with adjoining platted streets and also the width and
location of alleys, existing easements and public walkways.
      (2)   Layout, number and dimensions of lots, including building setback
lines showing the width of each lot at the front setback line.
      (3)   Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside
for public use and/or for the use of property owners in the subdivision and any
lands to be preserved in their natural state.
      (4)   A statement of the status of the petitioner’s ownership, and
existing and proposed use of any parcels identified as “excepted” on the
preliminary plat shall indicate how this property could be developed in
accordance with the requirements of the existing zoning district in which it is
located.
      (5)   Statement of intended use of the proposed plat such as residential
single-family, industrial, commercial and the like.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 FINAL PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   Within one year after having received tentative preliminary plat approval as
described in §
152.16, the subdivider shall submit the preliminary plat for final approval as
follows:
   (A)   Submit to the Township Clerk ten copies of the preliminary plat and
other required data at the time he or she files copies with the authorities as
required in Public Act 288 of 1967, §§ 113 through 119 of the Subdivision
Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.113 through 560.119. At this filing he or
she shall include a certified list of all authorities to which he or she has
submitted preliminary plats for review;
   (B)   Submit as proof of ownership a policy of title insurance, or a legal
opinion with reference to ownership, for examination, so that the township can
determine whether or not the proper names appear on the plat;
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with § 120 of the
Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 560.120, and
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
   (D)   Identification and description shall be the same as in §
152.16(A);
   (E)   Proposed conditions shall be the same as in §
152.16(C);
   (F)   An indication of the required underground utilities;
   (G)   An indication of system proposed for sewage by a method approved by
the township;
   (H)   An indication of system proposed for water supply by a method approved
by the township and the County Health Department;
   (I)   An indication of proposed storm drainage system; and point of outlet
at the subdivision line, by a method approved by the township and the Drain
Commissioner;
   (J)   In the case where the subdivider wishes to subdivide only part of the
property in question, the preliminary plat shall include the proposed general
layout for the entire area. The part which is proposed to be subdivided first
shall be clearly superimposed upon the overall plan in order to illustrate
clearly the method of development which the subdivider intends to follow. Each
subsequent plat shall follow the same procedure until the entire area
controlled by the subdivider is subdivided;
   (K)   Subsoil drainage. Whenever there is reason to expect that any part of
the tract has a high water table or unstable subsoil conditions, the
preliminary plat submittal shall include a tabulated record and a keyed map of
soil borings made by and certified by a registered civil engineer or registered
land surveyor;
   (L)   A plan shall be submitted of any proposed water areas indicating
depths, normal water levels, slopes and type of bank retention, method of
controlling insects, water growths and vegetation; and
   (M)   Proposed topography. Superimposed on the preliminary plat shall be the
proposed contours, at a minimum interval of two feet, for the area including
the area at least 100 feet outside of the project boundary.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of the State
Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et
seq., and be submitted within two years after final preliminary plat approval
was granted.
   (B)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved and it may constitute only the portion of the approved preliminary
plat which the proprietor proposed to record and develop at the time; provided,
however, that such portion conforms to this subdivision chapter.
   (C)   Two copies of the proposed subdivision deed restrictions or protective
covenants or a statement in writing that none are proposed shall be furnished
to the township to be filed with the township’s copy of the final plat.
   (D)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Township Board, the subsequent
approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Subdivision Act. The
three prints of the final plat shall be forwarded: one to the Township Clerk,
one to the Planning Commission and one to the Building Inspector (Zoning
Administrator). Five Mylar copies shall be forwarded to the County Plat
Committee.
   (E)   (1)   Placing of required monument and lot corner markers may be
waived by the Township Board for a period of one year from the date of approval
of the final plat by the Township Board provided:
         (a)   That monuments or other markers adequately witnessed, shall be
in place at all angles and at all ends of curves in the boundaries of the
subdivision; and
         (b)   That the subdivider shall have delivered to the Township Clerk
cash or a certified check or irrevocable bank letter of credit running to the
township, whichever the Township Board determines is appropriate, in amount
equal to $50 per monument remaining to be placed; plus $20 per lot corner
marker remaining to be placed; however, that a minimum deposit of $200 shall be
necessary regardless of the number of monuments and/or markers to be placed.
      (2)   Such cash, certified check or irrevocable bank letter of credit
shall be returned to the subdivider upon receipt of a certificate by a surveyor
that the monuments and markers have been placed as required within the time
specified. If the subdivider defaults, the Township Clerk shall engage a
surveyor to locate the monuments and markers called for on the plat and on
completion of the work shall return any unexpended balance of the deposit to
the party from whom it was received.
   (F)   The township shall require of the subdivider as a condition of final
plat approval, a deposit in the form of cash, certified check or irrevocable
bank letter of credit running to the township for the full cost, as estimated
by the Township Engineer, of the public improvements under township
jurisdiction to ensure the completion of said improvements and facilities
within a length of time agreed upon from the date of approval of the final plat
by the Township Board. The township shall rebate to the subdivider as work
progresses, amounts of any cash deposits equal to the ratio of the work
completed to the entire project provided, however, that no amount shall be
reimbursed until the Township Engineer approves the same and at least 10% shall
be retained pro-rata from the entire project for each payment until one year
after completion of the improvements to ensure against any repairs that may be
necessary.
   (G)   One complete set of as built Mylar drawings shall be provided by the
proprietor to the Township Board at the time of final acceptance of the public
improvements.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 ASSESSOR’S PLAT.
   If it is established that conditions exist whereby an assessor’s plat is
necessary, said assessor’s plat shall comply with §§ 201 to 213 of the State
Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.201
through 560.213.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 REVIEW AND APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall act upon the proposed plat within the
time limits outlined in §
152.15, unless the subdivider agrees to an extension in writing. The Township
Board action shall be within the time limits established in the State
Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et
seq. Review, approval or denial of a proposed plat shall be based on the
following considerations:
      (1)   Township, county and state regulations and ordinances;
      (2)   The availability and adequacy of sewer, water and other utilities;
      (3)   Open space preservation and natural resource protection;
      (4)   Availability of recreation and public service facilities;
      (5)   Master Plan proposals; and
      (6)   The standards of this chapter and the health, safety and welfare
concerns of the township.
   (B)   Tentative plat approval is irrevocable for a maximum of one year,
unless an extension is applied for in writing by the subdivider and granted by
the Township Board. Tentative plat approval establishes the layout and design
of streets/lots and open spaces. Final preliminary approval is good for two
years with the same conditions for extension as mentioned above. Final
preliminary plat is usually granted once preliminary engineering is completed,
and deals with the plat remaining substantially the same as approved at the
tentative stage. Final plat approval involves only the approval of the Township
Board and deals with the plat preparation with recording pursuant to the sale
of lots.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.35 PLATS TO MEET APPROVAL OF TOWNSHIP.
   The subdivision design standards set forth herein are development guides and
all plats must be reviewed and meet the approval of the township.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 152.36 STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to all minimum requirements, general specifications,
typical cross-sections and other conditions set forth in this chapter and any
other requirements of the County Road Commission.
   (A)   Location and arrangement.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements of
the Master Plan and shall be considered in relation to existing and planned
major thoroughfare and collector streets, and streets shall be platted in the
location and the width indicated on the master plan.
      (2)   The street layout shall provide for continuation of collector
streets in the adjoining subdivisions or of the proper projections of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided.
      (3)   The street layout shall include local streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require a side lot
relationship to the major thoroughfare with an approved screen planting
contained in a dedicated nonaccess reservation along the side property lines
having a minimum width of 12 feet, or such other treatment as may be necessary
for adequate separation of the residential properties from the major
thoroughfare.
   (B)   Street layouts. The following design standards shall be used:
      (1)   Major and secondary thoroughfare minimum right-of-way width: 120
feet;
      (2)   Collector streets minimum right-of-way: 86 feet;
      (3)   Local street minimum right-of-way width: 66 feet;
      (4)   Cul-de-sac streets minimum right-of-way: 66 feet, with a vehicular
turn-around with a minimum diameter of 150 feet and with a paved roadway of not
less than 112 feet in diameter;
      (5)   Cul-de-sac street maximum length: 660 feet measured to the center
of the turn-around; and
      (6)   Half streets and alleys are prohibited.
   (C)   Grade standards and horizontal alignment. Grade standards and
horizontal alignment shall be to County Road Commission specifications.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Sizes.
      (1)   The maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 1,500 feet in
length, except where in the opinion of the Planning Commission, with the advice
of the Township Planner and the Township Engineer, conditions may justify a
greater distance.
      (2)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the conditions of the
layout and shall be suited to the intended design of the subdivision.
   (B)   Public walkways.
      (1)   Public walkways or crosswalks or easements for same shall be
required by the Planning Commission to obtain satisfactory pedestrian
circulation within the subdivision and the periphery to public or private
facilities.
      (2)   Right-of-way widths of public walkways when not adjacent to or a
part of street rights-of-way shall be at least 15 feet and shall be dedicated
to the use of the public.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided in a uniform
location approved by the Planning Commission. Every lot, park or public grounds
shall have access of not less than 15 feet wide.
      (2)   Recommendations on the proposed layout for telephone, electric and
gas utility easements shall be obtained from the utility companies serving the
township.
      (3)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm easement or drainage right-
of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse and such
further width or construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose. Such
easements shall meet the approval of the township and the county.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.38 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas, widths and setbacks shall conform to at least the
minimum requirements of the zoning chapter for the district in which the
subdivision is proposed.
      (3)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth-
to-width ratio of not more than four to one may be required.
      (4)   Corner lots in subdivisions shall be platted at least 20 feet wider
that the minimum width permitted by the zoning chapter.
      (5)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provisions for
off-street parking setbacks, and other requirements in accordance with the
zoning chapter.
   (B)   Arrangement. The Planning Commission may alter requirements of
divisions (B)(2), (B)(3) and (B)(4) below upon a finding that topographic or
other practical difficulties result from the strict application of these
standards.
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut upon an approved street.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
lines.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or collector streets
shall be platted with side lot lines parallel to the major traffic streets, or
shall be platted with extra depth to permit generous distance between buildings
and such trafficway.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
      (5)   Wetlands, lands subject to flooding or lands otherwise deemed by
the Planning Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential purposes, or for uses that may in the judgement of the Planning
Commission diminish a natural resource or tend to endanger health, life or
property or increase the flood hazard. Such land within a subdivision shall be
set aside for other uses, such as open space or parks.
      (6)   Where parcels of land are subdivided into unusually large lots the
parcels may be divided where feasible, so as to allow for resubdividing into
smaller parcels in a logical fashion. Lot arrangements shall allow for the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.39 CREDITS FOR PUBLIC DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   In supplying sites for schools and parks, the subdivider may reduce
the minimum lot frontage and lot area requirements of the township’s zoning
ordinance in direct proportion to the land dedicated for public purpose
according to the following formula:
      Total Park and School Area Dedication   =   Percentage of Minimum Lot
Frontage
      Gross Area of Plat                & Area Reduction (Not to exceed 10%)
   (B)   When multiplying the percentage reduction allowable to the minimum lot
frontage, the product may be rounded to the nearest lower whole number. When
multiplying the percentage reduction allowable to the minimum lot area, the
product may be rounded to the nearest lower even 100 square feet.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.40 TREES AND NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
practical.
   (B)   Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large trees,
natural groves and similar community assets that will add attractiveness and
value to the property if preserved. Existing trees shall be preserved wherever
possible, removal must be justified to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Areas identified as wetlands on the National Wetlands Inventory Maps
shall not be filled, drained, developed or otherwise altered in any way. This
chapter intends to protect and preserve all wetlands. Protection of such areas
shall not be used for density credits or bonuses.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 GREENBELTS.
   Greenbelts acceptable to the Planning Commission may be required to be
placed next to incompatible features such as highways, commercial or industrial
uses to screen the view from residential properties. Such screens or greenbelts
shall be a minimum of 15 feet wide and shall not be a part of the normal
roadway right-of-way or utility easement.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in part within the floodway of a stream, creek or drain, or any other areas
which are subject to flooding or inundation by stormwater shall require
specific compliance with the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., and applicable state law.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 TOPSOIL.
   Removal of topsoil from areas to be subdivided shall be prohibited except in
those areas to be occupied by buildings, roads or parking areas. A plan for
storage or stockpiling of topsoil shall be submitted by the proprietor with the
final plat and shall be approved prior to receiving approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.44 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   The improvements set forth under the provisions of this chapter shall be
obtained prior to the installation of any subdivision or project improvements
within the township in public streets, public rights-of-way and public
easements, and/or under the ultimate jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.45 UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   A set of engineering plans shall be prepared by a professional
engineer showing all utility improvements.
   (B)   The plan shall show and conform to all standards and chapter
requirements and the following.
      (1)   Surface drainage - building permit.  No building permit shall be
issued in any subdivision in the township unless the application for such
permit is accompanied by evidence, in the form of plat diagrams, showing
topography of such building site and the proposed surface drainage thereof
approved by the township. It shall be unlawful for any person to impede, block,
change or alter the flow of surface drainage in any manner, or maintain any
such impediment or blockage in any manner in any subdivision, without the prior
express written approval of the township.
      (2)   Surface drainage - occupancy permit. No final occupancy permit
shall be issued for a new building until satisfactory evidence is furnished
that the yard grading is complete for the lot or parcel of land on which the
building is located. SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE may at the discretion of the
Township Clerk be in the form of a certificate prepared by and certified by a
registered land surveyor or registered professional engineer, showing the
required grading to be done, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued
by the Building Inspector upon the filing with the Township Clerk of a cash
bond, in an amount to be determined by the township, to guarantee that said
grading will be completed as soon as weather permits. Upon the filing of
satisfactory evidence that the grading has been completed as herein provided,
said bond shall be refunded.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Street signs. An appropriate street sign shall be erected at each
street intersection within the subdivision. The type of sign and location
thereof shall be subject to the approval and direction of the County Road
Commission. Temporary signs shall be installed by the developer before
construction in the subdivision is begun to facilitate the location of given
lots by emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Pedestrian walkways, open spaces and trees. Pedestrian walkways, open
spaces and trees shall be installed and preserved in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988) Penalty, see §
152.99
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 152.60 REVIEW FEES.
   Fees for examination and inspection of plats and the land proposed to be
subdivided and related expenses shall be paid to the township by the
subdividers, and such fees shall include the township administrative fee, the
planner’s fee, the engineer’s fee and the Township Attorney’s fee, based upon
his or her arrangement with the township in effect at said time. The Township
Board shall adopt by ordinance the appropriate schedule of fees.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 152.61 VARIANCE.
   The Township Board may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in
its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In granting any
variance, the Board shall obtain a Planning Commission recommendation and
prescribe such conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the
public interest.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to a fine not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCESSING REQUIREMENTS
 
TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT
(Planning Commission recommendation within 60 days of filing and Township Board
action within 90 days of filing.)
                                 Planning
Subdivider      Placed on agenda Commission      Planning
files*          of next Planning reviews:        Commission
preliminary     Commission       - Lot sizes     recommends:   Township Board
plat for        meeting. Submit  - Lot layout    - Approval    grants tentative
tentative       copies to        - Street layout - Conditional approval or
approval. Clerk Engineer and     - Utilities     Approval; or  rejects plat
collects fees.  Planner for      - Land use      - Denial
                review.          - Design
                                 standards
 
 
FINAL PRELIMINARY PLAT
                                                                                              Township
                                                                                              Board at
                                                                                  Planning    next
                                                                                  Commission  meeting
                                                                                  reviews and or
                                                                                  recommends  within
Subdivider files* preliminary plat for final approval, list of authorities in     approval,   20 days
Public Act 288 of 1967, §§ 111 through 119, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.111 through conditional after
560.119, and pays fees                                                            approval or receipt
                                                                                  denial      of
                                                                                  within 30   approved
                                                                                  days of     plats:
                                                                                  filing      approve
                                                                                              or
                                                                                              reject
 
 
FINAL PLAT
                                        Township Board within 20 days or next
Subdivider submits* final plat and pays meeting
fees                                    - approves or
                                        - rejects
 
* Each submission must be on proper application forms furnished by the
township.
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
Date Received_________________   Filing Fee_________________   Rec.
#________________
PLAT
NAME_______________________________________________________________________
   Tentative Preliminary         Final Preliminary               Final Plat
The submission with this application must satisfy all of the township
subdivision and zoning ordinance requirements for the stage of approval being
requested. Supplemental verbal statements changed or corrected copies will not
be accepted at any meeting. Any changes in the original submission shall
require a new application and reprocessing. Ten copies of this form together
with same number of drawings must be filed with the Township Clerk together
with the appropriate fee.
Applicant’s
Name____________________________________________________________________
Address_____________________________________________________________________________
If you are not the legal owner, state your basis of representation (Engineer,
Attorney, site planner, landscape architect, option purchaser, or the like)
____________________________________________
Legal Description of
Property__________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Existing Zoning_________________________ Zoning of Surrounding
Property__________________
Drawings Prepared by Name________________________________ Phone
_____________________
Address_____________________________________________________________________________
TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY - Application for Tentative Approval will be informally
reviewed at the Commission’s first meeting after the date of filing and acted
upon the Planning Commission within 60 days after date of filing at one of its
regular meetings.
FINAL PRELIMINARY - The Planning Commission shall take action on the proposed
plat within 30 days of filing with the township, and the Township Board shall
follow the procedures set forth in Public Act 288 of 1967.
FINAL PLAT - Shall be reviewed only by the Township Board after all necessary
approvals have been obtained, as set forth in Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
                                    _________________________________
                                    Applicant’s Signature
________________                              _________________________________
Date                                    Legal Owner’s Signature
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
APPENDIX C: SCHEDULE OF SUBDIVISION FEES
AN ORDINANCE TO ESTABLISH A SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR EXAMINATION AND INSPECTION OF
SUBDIVISION PLATS IN THE TOWNSHIP OF MUSSEY.
THE TOWNSHIP OF MUSSEY ORDAINS:
The following Schedule of Fees shall be paid by an applicant for subdivision
plat examination and inspection, as required by the Township Subdivision
Regulations chapter, as amended and the Subdivision Control Act 288 of 1967, as
amended:
TOWNSHIP ADMINISTRATIVE FEE            $__________   /lot
PLANNER’S REVIEW FEES
   Tentative Preliminary Plat ($100 minimum)          $2.50/lot
   Final Preliminary Plat ($100 minimum)          $1.50/lot
   Final Plat ($50 minimum)                $1.00/lot
ENGINEER’S REVIEW FEES
   Tentative Preliminary Plat ($100 minimum)          $1.50/lot
   Final Preliminary Plat ($100 minimum)          $2.50/lot
   Final Plat ($100 minimum)               $2.00/lot
ATTORNEY’S REVIEW FEES
   All Reviews                     $_______ /hour
(Ord. 9b, passed 6-8-1988)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Definitions
Zoning Districts and Map
   
153.015   Districts
   
153.016   Boundaries
   
153.017   Zoning of vacated areas
   
153.018   District requirements
AG Agricultural District
   
153.030   Intent
   
153.031   Principal permitted uses
   
153.032   Special land uses
   
153.033   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.034   Development regulations
SF Single-Family Rural Residential District
   
153.045   Intent
   
153.046   Principal permitted uses
   
153.047   Special land uses
   
153.048   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.049   Development regulations
R-1 Single-Family Rural Residential District
   
153.060   Intent
   
153.061   Principal permitted uses
   
153.062   Special land uses
   
153.063   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.064   Development regulations
RM Multiple-Family Residential District
   
153.075   Intent
   
153.076   Principal permitted uses
   
153.077   Special land use
   
153.078   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.079   Development regulations
B-1 Local Business District
   
153.090   Intent
   
153.091   Principal permitted uses
   
153.092   Special land uses
   
153.093   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.094   Development regulations
B-2 Highway-Oriented Commercial District
   
153.105   Intent
   
153.106   Principal permitted uses
   
153.107   Special land uses
   
153.108   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.109   Development regulations
RC Recreation Conservation District
   
153.120   Intent
   
153.121   Principal permitted uses
   
153.122   Special land uses
   
153.123   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.124   Development regulations
LI Light Industrial District
   
153.135   Intent
   
153.136   Principal permitted uses
   
153.137   Special land uses
   
153.138   Accessory structures and uses
   
153.139   Development regulations
Schedule of District Regulations
   
153.150   Height, bulk, density, area, setback and lot coverage by district
   
153.151   Single-family cluster design standards
General Regulations
   
153.165   Conflicting regulations
   
153.166   Scope
   
153.167   Nonconforming lots, nonconforming uses of land, nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures and premises
   
153.168   Accessory buildings
   
153.169   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.170   Off-street parking space layout, standards, construction and
maintenance
   
153.171   Off-street loading and unloading
   
153.172   Performance standards
   
153.173   Plant materials
   
153.174   Signs
   
153.175   Exterior lighting
   
153.176   Corner clearance
   
153.177   Walls
   
153.178   Use restriction
   
153.179   Erection of more than one principal structure on a lot
   
153.180   Site plan review
   
153.181   Access requirements
   
153.182   Private swimming pools
   
153.183   Performance guarantee
   
153.184   Basement and/or garage dwelling prohibited
   
153.185   Ponds
   
153.186   Traffic impact study requirements
   
153.187   Standards for condominium subdivision review
   
153.188   Temporary trailers
   
153.189   Single-family dwelling unit standards
   
153.190   On-site use wind systems
   
153.191   Keeping of animals
Special Land Use Approval Requirements
   
153.205   General requirements and procedures
   
153.206   Airports
   
153.207   Cemeteries
   
153.208   Churches and public buildings
   
153.209   Commercial outdoor recreation
   
153.210   Disposal areas
   
153.211   Golf courses
   
153.212   General hospitals
   
153.213   Kennels
   
153.214   Shooting ranges, gun clubs and large scale gaming preserves
   
153.215   Mining and extraction
   
153.216   Vehicle convenience stations
   
153.217   Group day care homes and group day care facilities
   
153.218   Convalescent or rest home, home for the aged
   
153.219   Educational institutions
   
153.220   Outdoor sales lots
   
153.221   Utility and public service facilities
   
153.222   Yard waste composting facilities
   
153.223   Single-family accessory apartments
   
153.224   Vehicle service centers and repair garages
   
153.225   Drive-through facilities
   
153.226   Hotels and motels
   
153.227   Public buildings and uses with outdoor storage yards
   
153.228   Salvage/recycling yards
   
153.229   Motor freight and truck terminals
   
153.230   Wireless communication facilities
   
153.231   Outdoor storage yards
   
153.232   Central dry cleaning plants
   
153.233   Vehicle wash facilities
   
153.234   High volume wells or well systems
   
153.235   Lumber and planing mills
   
153.236   Equestrian stables and riding academies
   
153.237   Tool, die, gauge, metal plating and machine shops
   
153.238   Agricultural produce processing, transferring and storage facilities
   
153.239   Single-family cluster density bonus option
   
153.240   Agricultural implement sales and service facilities
   
153.241   Private clubs and lodge halls
   
153.242   Veterinary clinics
   
153.243   Utility grid wind energy systems (wind farms)
   
153.244   Mud bogs
   
153.245   Home occupation medical marihuana primary caregivers and facilities
   
153.246   Solar farms
General Exceptions as to Area, Height and Use
   
153.255   Interpretations and exceptions
   
153.256   Essential services
   
153.257   Voting place
   
153.258   Height limit
   
153.259   Lot area
   
153.260   Yard regulations
   
153.261   Residential yard fences
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.275   Enforcement
   
153.276   Duties of Building Inspector
   
153.277   Plot plan
   
153.278   Permits
   
153.279   Certificates
   
153.280   Final inspection
   
153.281   Fees
   
153.282   Interpretation
   
153.283   Planning Commission approval
   
153.284   Changes and amendments
   
153.285   Fees - petition for amendment
   
153.286   Public nuisance per se
   
153.287   Liability of owner of building assisting in violation
   
153.288   Variance
   
153.289   Vested right
Board of Appeals
   
153.305   Creation and membership
   
153.306   Officers
   
153.307   Authority of Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.308   Applications and notices; effect of appeal
   
153.309   Meeting and records
   
153.310   Disposition; duration of approval; appeal
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   Appendix A: Planning and Zoning Fee Schedule
   Appendix B: Zoning Maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the township zoning chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
used in the present tense shall include the future; all words in the singular
number include the plural number and all words in the plural number include the
singular number. Terms not herein defined shall have the meanings customarily
assigned to them.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building or portion of a building subordinate to a
main building on the same lot occupied by or devoted exclusively to an
accessory use. An ACCESSORY BUILDING must conform to all setback requirements
of the primary use in nonresidential districts.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Includes, but is not limited to, crops (corn, wheat,
hay, potatoes); fruit (apples, peaches, grapes, cherries, berries and the
like); cider; vegetables (sweet corn, pumpkins, tomatoes and the like);
floriculture; herbs; forestry; husbandry; livestock and livestock products
(cattle, sheep, hogs, horses, poultry, ostriches, emus, farmed deer, farmed
buffalo, milk, eggs and fur and the like); aquaculture products (fish, fish
products, water plants and shellfish); horticultural specialties (nursery
stock, ornamental shrubs, flowers and Christmas trees); maple sap and the like.
   AGRICULTURAL TOURISM, AG-TOURISM AND/OR AGRI-TOURISM. The practice of
visiting an agribusiness, horticultural, or agricultural operation, including,
but not limited to, a farm, orchard, winery, greenhouse, hunting preserve, a
companion animal or livestock show, for the purpose of recreation, education or
active involvement in the operation, other than as a contractor or employee of
the operation.
   AGRICULTURALLY RELATED PRODUCTS. Items sold at a farm market to attract
customers and promote the sale of agricultural products. Such items include,
but are not limited to all agricultural and horticultural products, animal
feed, baked goods, ice cream and ice cream based desserts and beverages, jams,
honey, gift items, food stuffs, clothing and other items promoting the farm and
agriculture in the state and value-added agricultural products and production
on-site.
   AGRICULTURALLY RELATED USES. Those activities that predominantly use
agricultural products, buildings or equipment, such as pony rides, corn mazes,
pumpkin rolling, barn dances, sleigh/hay rides and educational events, such as
farming and food preserving classes and the like.
   AGRICULTURE. Includes horticulture, floriculture, dairying and livestock
raising; chicken hatcheries, poultry raising and apiaries; forestry,
greenhouse, tree, shrub and similar plant nurseries and orchards; but not
including establishments keeping or raising fur-bearing animals, commercial dog
kennels, riding or boarding stables and other similar enterprises; not
establishments for the slaughtering of animals, except such animals as have
been raised on the premises for at least one year immediately prior thereto.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification to a structure or type of
occupancy, any change in the structural members of a building such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as “altered” or “reconstruction.”
   ANEMOMETER TOWER. A freestanding tower (or other structural means of
mounting) containing instrumentation such as anemometers that is designed to
provide present moment wind data for use by the supervisory control and data
acquisition (SCADA) system which is a temporary accessory land use to either a
proposed on-site use wind energy system (windmill) or a utility grid wind
energy system (wind farm).
   APARTMENT. A residential structure containing three or more attached one-
family dwellings.
   AUTO REPAIR GARAGES. A place where the following activities may be carried
out: vehicle body repair, engine rebuilding or repair, undercoating, painting,
tire recapping, upholstery work and auto glass work.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE CENTER. A place where automobile service may be carried
out for minor repair and servicing of automobiles, together with the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale of motor fuels directly to users of motor
vehicles, only when the location of such AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE CENTER is
architecturally designed and located on the site so as to become an intregal
part of a larger planned shopping center complex.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly, or wholly below grade
but so located that the vertical distance from average grade to the floor is
greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. If
the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling is over five feet,
such BASEMENT shall be rated as a first story.
   BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof designed or intended to be used
or posting, painting, or otherwise affixing any advertising sign, which
advertising sign does not pertain to the premises or to the use of premises on
which the BILLBOARD is located or to goods sold or services rendered or
activities conducted on such premises.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling where meals, or lodging and meals, are provided
for compensation for three or more persons by prearrangement for definite
periods. A BOARDING HOUSE shall be distinguished from a hotel.
   BUILDABLE LAND AREA. The BUILDABLE LAND AREA of a lot or parcel for purposes
of density calculation and allowable numbers of large animals shall be that
area of a lot or parcel exclusive of land which is within a floodplain,
waterbody, wetland, road easement or right-of-way (private or public).
   BUILDABLE LOT AREA. The buildable lot area is the space remaining on the lot
or parcel after yard, parking, floodplain, waterbodies, wetland areas or other
areas required by this chapter which prevent or restrict development or
specific areas(s) have been met.
   BUILDING. A structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof
supported by columns, or walls, and intended for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind. (This shall include tents,
awnings or vehicles situated on private property and used for such purposes).
Includes the word “structure.”
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the main building or to the use of the land.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from the established grade
of the center, of the front of the building to the highest point of the roof
surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average
height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs; and the
average height between the lowest point and the highest point on a shed roof.
Where a building is located on sloping terrain, the height may be measured from
the average ground level of the grade at the building wall.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector or official designated by the
Township Board.
   BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building, and for the
purpose of this chapter, a BUILDING LINE is the same as the front setback.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal uses of the
lot on which it is situated.
   CARETAKER’S RESIDENCE. An accessory structure which serves as the primary
residence of a person or persons who maintains the grounds.
   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, science, literature, politics or the like, but
not for profit.
   COLOCATION. The location by two or more wireless communication providers or
wireless communication facilities on a common structure, tower or building.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Relates to the use of property in connection with the
purchase, sale, barter, display or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or
personal services and the maintenance or operation thereof of offices, or
recreational or amusement enterprises.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the unincorporated part of the township within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
   DOMESTIC PETS. An animal kept solely for companionship, recreation, and
pleasure, regardless of the use of the property where the animal resides. All
animals kept for companionship, recreation, and pleasure shall be considered
domestic pets for the purposes of this ordinance, except for those defined as
“exotic or wild animals.”
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than
within a building or structure.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A business establishment for the serving of food and/or
beverages, with driveways and approaches, so developed and designed so as to
serve patrons while in the motor vehicle, or permit patron self-service so that
consumption within motor vehicles may be facilitated, as differentiated from a
restaurant with indoor seating only.
   DWELLING. Includes residence.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY.  A building, or portion thereof, designed
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other. (Refer to APARTMENT definition for dwelling unit types.)
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for and occupancy by
two families, living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or a portion thereof, designed for occupancy by
one family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities.
   ERECTED. Any physical operations on the premises required for the
construction or moving on and includes construction, reconstruction,
alteration, building, excavation, fill, drainage, installation of utilities and
the like.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments of underground, surface or overhead
gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution systems,
including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
fire alarm and police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and similar
equipment in connection herewith, but not including buildings which are
necessary for the furnishing of adequate services by such utilities or
municipal departments for the general health, safety or welfare.
   EXCAVATION. Any breaking of the ground to hollow out by cutting, digging or
removing any soil or rock matter, except for common household gardening and
general farm care.
   EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not commonly (in Michigan) domesticated,
raised for slaughter, or used for agricultural purposes, especially animals
that pose a clear and present danger to humans, including but not limited to
big cats, venomous snakes, and large apes.
   FAMILY.  One or two persons or parents, within their direct lineal
descendents and adopted children (and including the domestic employees
thereof). Together with not more than two persons not so related, living
together in the whole or part of the dwelling unit comprising a single
housekeeping unit. Every additional group of two or less persons living in such
housekeeping unit shall be considered a separate FAMILY for the purpose of this
chapter.
   FARM. All of the contiguous neighboring or associated land operated as a
single unit on which agriculture is carried on directly by the owner-operator,
manager or tenant farmer, by his or her own labor or with the assistance of
members of his or her household or hired employees; provided, however, that
land to be considered a farm hereunder shall include a continuous parcel of 20
acres or more in area.
   FARM ANIMAL. An animal raised for slaughter or kept for the purposes of
contributing to an agricultural use through labor or the production of milk,
eggs, manure, wool, or other animal-based products.
   FARM BUILDINGS (AGRICULTURAL BUILDINGS). Any building or structure other
than a dwelling, moved upon, maintained, used or built on a farm which is
essential and customarily used on farms of that type for the pursuit of their
agricultural activities.
   FARM MARKET/ON-FARM MARKET. The sale of agricultural products or value-added
agricultural products, directly to the consumer from a site on a working farm
or any agricultural, horticultural or agribusiness operation or agricultural
land, but not including temporary roadside stand markets.
   FENCE. A structure of definite height and location to serve as an enclosure
in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   FENCE, OBSCURING.  A structure of definite height and location to serve as
an obscuring screen in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   FILLING. The depositing or dumping of any matter onto, or into the ground,
except common household gardening and general farm care.
   FIREARM. An instrument which is capable of hurling a missile by means of
exploding or burning powder.
   FLOOR AREA. The floor area of a residential dwelling unit is the sum of the
horizontal areas of each story of the building as measured from the exterior
walls; exclusive of areas of basements, unfinished attics, attached garages,
breezeways and enclosed and unenclosed porches.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. For the purposes of computing parking, usable floor area
is all ground and nonground floor area used for, or intended to be used for,
the sale of merchandise or service or for use to serve patrons, clients or
customers. For the purposes of computing parking for those uses not enclosed
within a building, the area used for the sale of merchandise, display of
merchandise, and/or area used to serve patrons or clients shall be measured to
determine necessary parking spaces.
   FUR-BEARING ANIMALS. Any mammal commonly (in Michigan) domesticated, raised
for slaughter, or used for agricultural purposes. An animal may be considered a
FUR-BEARING ANIMAL as well as a farm animal, domestic pet, or exotic or wild
animal.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  A building used primarily for the storage of self-
propelled vehicles for the use of the occupants of a lot on which such building
is located and with a capacity of not more than three motor driven vehicles.
The foregoing definition shall be construed to permit the storage on any one
lot, for the occupants thereof, of not more than one commercial vehicle not
exceeding a rate capacity of three-fourths ton. This shall not include the
storage of large tractors, backhoes, bulldozers, other construction-type
equipment or similar equipment.
   GARBAGE.  Every refuse, accumulation of all waste, animal, fish, fowl, fruit
or vegetable matter incident to the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or
storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruit and vegetable, including spoiled food, dead
animals, animal manure and fowl manure.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A place for the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale of motor fuels directly to users of motor vehicles, together with the sale
of minor accessories and the servicing of and minor repair of automobiles.
   GRADE. The highest point of ground contacting any portion of the basement or
foundation of a dwelling.
   GREENBELT. A strip of land of definite width and location reserved for the
planting of shrubs and/or trees to serve as an obscuring screen or buffer strip
in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   GUN CLUB.  Any club, organization, individual, group of individuals, or use,
whether operated for profit or not, which caters to or allows the use of
firearms.
   HOBBY FARM. A farm which is limited in scale, operated on a part-time basis
primarily for pleasure, in agricultural districts subject to the use
restrictions in said district.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use customarily conducted entirely within the
dwelling, (not including breezeway or garage, attached or detached), and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, is not offensive
and does not change the character thereof. Provided further, that no article or
service is sold or offered for sale on the premises, except such as is produced
by such occupation; that such occupation shall not require internal or external
alterations or construction features, equipment, machinery, outdoor storage, or
signs not customary in residential areas. One non-illuminated name plate, not
more than two square feet in area, may be attached to the building which shall
contain only the name and occupation of the resident of the premises.
   HOSPITAL. A building, structure or institution in which sick or injured
persons are given medical or surgical treatment and operating under license by
the Health Department and the state.
   HOTEL (MOTEL). A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units
which provide overnight lodging and are offered to the public for compensation.
   INDUSTRIAL USE.  Any land or building occupied or used for manufacturing or
processing purposes.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought
and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled including,
but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and
bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards, and includes any area
of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, but
does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises on which three or more dogs, six
months old or over for sale, breeding, boarding, or training purposes, are
either permanently or temporarily boarded for remuneration.
   LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing, but not devoted to the manufacturing of a product or products.
   LARGE ANIMAL. Farm animals and other similar animal which are customarily
raised on a farm, such as, but not limited to, horses, cattle, pigs, sheep,
goats and ponies.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or group
of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and
unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or which could be occupied, by a main
building or group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for
the principal use and used accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as
are required under the provisions of this chapter. A LOT may or may not be
specifically designated as such on public records. LOT includes the words
“plot” or “parcel.”
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle of two adjacent sides at the
intersection of the two streets is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT for the purpose of
this chapter if the arc is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the two points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured along the median between side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any interior lot having frontage on two more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS, all sides of said lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, the line separating
said lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is
that line separating said lot from the street which is designated as the front
street in the plat and in the application for a building permit or zoning
occupancy permit. In the case of a double frontage lot, both lot lines abutting
on streets shall be treated as FRONT LOT LINES.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot lines other than the front lot line or rear
lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a side.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the County Register of Deeds or in common use by
township or county officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any
part of such parcel held in record ownership separate from that of the
remainder thereof.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the two points where the building lines, or setback intersects the side lot
lines.
   MASTER PLAN. A comprehensive plan including graphic and written proposals
indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public buildings
and all physical development of the township and includes any unit or part of
such plan, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME (TRAILER COACH). Any vehicle designed, used or so constructed as
to permit its ability to be transported upon the public street or highways and
duly licensable as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit
occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK (TRAILER COURT). Any plot of ground upon which three or
more mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are or may be
located.
   NON-AGRICULTURALLY RELATED PRODUCTS. Those items not connected to farming or
the farm operation, such as novelty t-shirts or other clothing, crafts and
knick-knacks imported from other states or countries and the like.
   NON-AGRICULTURALLY RELATED USES. Activities that are part of an agri-tourism
operation’s total offerings but not tied to farming or the farm’s buildings,
equipment, fields, or the like. Such NON-AGRICULTURALLY RELATED USES include
amusement rides, concerts, haunted houses and the like, and are subject to a
special use or temporary use permit.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS. A building or portion thereof, existing at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, that does not conform to
the use provisions of the chapter, nor to the use regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time this chapter, or amendments thereto, became effective, that does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   OCCUPANCY LOAD. The number of individuals normally occupying a building or
part thereof, or for which the existing facilities have been designed.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles, for maneuvering so as to provide access for
entrance and exit for the parking of automobiles.
   ON-SITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system (windmill)
which converts wind energy into electricity (or other form of usable energy)
through the use of a wind turbine generator and includes turbine, blades and
tower as well as related electrical equipment. Only one windmill is involved
and the energy produced is intended to be primarily used on-site. Windmills
with a power generation capacity of five kilowatts (or equivalent) or less
(e.g., for livestock watering tanks), that are located in the AG district are
exempt.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width and shall be exclusive
of drives, driveways, aisles or entrances giving access thereto and shall be
fully accessible for the storage or parking of permitted vehicles.
   PERSON. Includes “corporation,” “copartnership,” “association,” as well as
an “individual.”
   POND. An inland body of water, either natural or manmade, that in its
natural state retains stormwater or exposes the ground water table.
   PUBLIC SERVICE. Service facilities within the context of this chapter shall
include such uses and services as voting booths, pumping stations, fire halls,
police stations, temporary quarters for welfare agencies, public health
activities and similar uses including essential services.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department, board
or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state or
municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal,
communication, telegraph, transportation or water.
   RETENTION BASIN. A wet or dry stormwater holding area, either natural or
manmade, which does not have an outlet to adjoining watercourses or wetlands
other than an emergency spillway.
   ROADSIDE STANDS OR MARKETS. A temporary use of property or facilities for
the selling of produce.
   RUBBISH.  The miscellaneous waste materials resulting from housekeeping,
mercantile enterprises, trades, manufacturing and offices, including other
waste matter such as slag, stone, broken concrete, fly ash, ashes, tin cans,
glass, scrap metal, rubber, paper, rags, chemicals or any similar or related
combinations thereof.
   SANITARY LAND FILL. Any operation which involves the piling, placing,
storing, dumping or depositing, in a hole or trench, any material in the form
of rubbish and/or waste materials.
   SEASONAL. A recurrent period characterized by certain occurrences,
festivities or crops; harvest, when crops are ready; not all year round.
   SETBACK. The distance required to comply with front, side or rear yard open
space provisions of this chapter.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGN. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs, or
trademarks by which anything is made known (other than billboards) such as are
used to show an individual, firm, profession or business, and are visible to
the general public. Accessory SIGNS pertain to uses or activities conducted on
the premises where the SIGNS are located.
   SIGN, SEASONAL. A sign erected for a limited period of time during the year
when retailing activities for a particular farm product is available to the
public.
   STORY. The part of a building included between the surface of one floor and
the surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor above, then the ceiling
next above.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected and designed for a permanent
location on the ground.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING OR USE. Where permitted by this chapter, a temporary
recreational vehicle or trailer, or other use, permitted to exist during
periods of construction of the main building or use, or for special events.
   THOROUGHFARES, MAJOR. An arterial street which is intended to serve as a
large volume trafficway for both the immediate township area and the region
beyond, and may be designated as a MAJOR THOROUGHFARE, parkway, freeway,
expressway or equivalent term.
   THOROUGHFARES, SECONDARY. An arterial street which is intended to serve as a
trafficway serving primarily the immediate township area and serving to connect
with major thoroughfares.
   TRAVEL TRAILER AND/OR MOTOR HOME.  A vehicle designed as a travel unit for
occupancy as a temporary or seasonal vacation living unit.
   USE, ACCESSORY.  A use subordinate to the main use of a lot and used for
purposes clearly incidental to those of the main use.
   USED or OCCUPIED. Includes the words “intended,” “designed” or “arranged” to
be USED or OCCUPIED.
   UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (WIND FARMS). A wind energy conversion
system (windmill(s)) which converts wind energy into electricity (or other form
of usable energy) through the use of a wind turbine generator and includes the
turbine, blades, and tower as well as related electrical equipment. One or more
windmills may be involved and the energy produced is intended to be primarily
used off-site. Off-site wiring to connect the wind energy conversion system to
the grid is not included in this definition.
   VALUE-ADDED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT. The enhancement or improvement of the
overall value of an agricultural commodity or of an animal or plant product to
a higher value. The enhancement or improvement includes, but is not limited to
marketing, agricultural processing, transforming or packaging, education
presentation, activities and tours.
   WILD ANIMAL. See EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. All structures and accessory facilities
relating to the use of the radio frequency spectrum for the purpose of
transmitting or receiving radio signals. This may include, but shall not be
limited to, radio towers, television towers, telephone devices and exchanges,
microwave relay towers, telephone transmission equipment building and
commercial mobile radio service facilities, monopoles and lattice towers. Not
included within this definition are: citizen band radio facilities; short wave
facilities; ham amateur radio facilities; satellite dishes; and governmental
facilities which are subject to state or federal law or regulations which
preempt municipal regulatory authority.
   YARDS. The open spaces on the same lot with a main building or main use,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, and as defined herein.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 26, passed 6-10-2009; Ord. 28, passed 2-9-2011;
Ord. 36, passed 6-8- 2016)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 153.015 DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the township is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   AG   Agricultural;
   (B)   SF   Single-Family Rural Residential;
   (C)   R-1   Single-Family Residential;
   (D)   RM Multiple-Family Residential;
   (E)   B-1   Local Business;
   (F)   B-2   Highway-Oriented Commercial;
   (G)   LI Light Industrial; and
   (H)   RC Recreation - Conservation.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.016 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the official zoning map, township zoning ordinance, which accompanies this
chapter, and which, with all notations, references and other information shown
thereon, shall be as much a part of this chapter as if fully described herein.
   (B)   Unless shown otherwise, the boundaries of the districts are lot lines,
section lines, the centerlines of streets, alleys, roads or such lines extended
and the unincorporated limits of the township.
   (C)   Where, due to the scale, lack of detail, or illegibility of the zoning
map accompanying this chapter, there is any uncertainty, contradiction or
conflict as to the intended location of any district boundaries shown therein,
interpretation concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall
be determined, upon written application, or upon its own motion, by the Board
of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.017 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way within the township shall
have been vacated by official governmental action, and when the lands within
the boundaries thereof attach to and become a part of the land formerly within
such vacated street, alley or public way, shall automatically and without
further governmental action thenceforth acquire and be subject to the same
zoning regulations as are applicable to the lands to which same shall attach,
and the same shall be used for that same use as is permitted under this chapter
for such adjoining lands.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.018 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings and uses in any district shall be subject to the provisions of
General Regulations (§§
153.165 through
153.191) and General Exceptions (§§
153.255 through
153.261).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 153.030 INTENT.
   These areas are intended to provide for continued agricultural uses. In
addition, the purpose of this District is to permit very low density, rural
home sites on large parcels or clusters of home sites within an open space
housing development while preserving the agricultural uses and rural
characteristics of the area.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.031 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   In an Agricultural District, no building or land shall be used and no
building shall be erected except for one or more of the following uses.
   (A)   (1)   General and specialized farming of agricultural products and
agricultural activities, including the raising or growing of crops, livestock,
poultry, bees and other farm animals, products and foodstuffs. Any building or
structure may be located thereon and used for the day-to-day operation of such
activities, for the storage or preservation of said crops or animals, products
and collection, distribution or processing, and for the incidental sale of
crops, products and foodstuffs raised or grown on said parcel or in said
building or structure.
      (2)   The following additional agricultural uses shall be permitted:
         (a)   Storage, retail or wholesale marketing, or processing of
agricultural products into a value-added agricultural product is a permitted
use in a farming operation if more than 50% of the stored, processed or
merchandised products are produced by the farm operator for at least three of
the immediately preceding five years;
         (b)   Cider mills or wineries selling product, in a tasting room,
derived from crops grown primarily on-site for at least three of the
immediately preceding five years, provided that the premises is licensed by the
State Liquor Control Commission;
         (c)   Direct marketing of produce in a farm market or on-farm market
provided that any building or combination of buildings used for such purposes
contain a total of not more than 2,500 square feet. A temporary roadside stand
shall also be permitted provided that it shall comply with all regulations set
forth in §
153.033(B)(3);
         (d)   Seasonal U-pick fruits and vegetables operations;
         (e)   Seasonal outdoors mazes of agricultural origin such as straw
bales or corn;
         (f)   Food sales/processing, processing any fruits/produce;
         (g)   Uses in divisions (A)(2)(b) through (A)(2)(f) above may include
any or all of the following ancillary agriculturally related uses and some non-
agriculturally related uses so long as the general agricultural character of
the farm is maintained and the income from these activities represents less
than 50% of the gross receipts from the farm:
            1.   Value-added agricultural products or activities such as
education tours or processing facilities and the like;
            2.   Bakeries selling baked goods containing produce grown
primarily on-site (e.g., minimum 50%);
            3.   Playgrounds or equipment typical of a school playground, such
as slides, swings and the like (not including motorized vehicles or rides);
            4.   Petting farms, animal display and pony rides;
            5.   Wagon, sleigh and hayrides;
            6.   Nature trails;
            7.   Open air or covered picnic area with restrooms;
            8.   Educational classes, lectures and seminars;
            9.   Historical agricultural exhibits;
            10.   Kitchen facilities, processing/cooking items for sale;
            11.   Gift shops for the sale of agricultural products and
agriculturally related products; and
            12.   Gift shops for the sale of non-agriculturally related
products such as antiques or crafts, limited to 25% of gross sales.
         (h)   Non-agriculturally related uses listed as permitted uses above
may include the following ancillary uses as temporary land uses: small-scale
entertainment (e.g., music concert, car show or art fair), family-oriented
animated barns (e.g., fun houses, haunted houses or similar) and small
mechanical rides provided that:
            1.   A temporary use permit shall be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator. Said temporary use permit shall be valid for only one period of
use. A fee may be charged for said permit;
            2.   Said use shall be permitted only for one period per year not
to exceed consecutive 60 days;
            3.   Applicant must provide evidence of liability insurance
coverage, acceptable to the township, of not less than $1,000,000;
            4.   Inspections shall be conducted by the Building Inspector, and
other officials as may be required, prior to the period of use. Evidence of
approval in the form of an inspection certificate shall be provided to the
Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance of a temporary land use permit. A
fee may be charged covering the cost of such inspection(s) and certificate(s);
and
            5.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, said use
need not be accessory to a bona fide farm or agricultural use provided that:
               a.   It is located on a parcel of not less than five acres; and
               b.   Has been in existence, has been lawfully approved by the
township, and has been operated for at least one season prior to the effective
date of this chapter provision.
   (B)   Single-family homes in accordance with §
153.150 and, where applicable, §
153.151;
   (C)   State licensed family day care homes;
   (D)   Public buildings without outdoor storage yard;
   (E)   Home occupations; and
   (F)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses listed above may be
permitted by the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 26, passed 6-10-2009; Ord. 36, passed 6-8-2016)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.032 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Agricultural implement sales and service facilities (§
153.240);
   (B)   Cemeteries (§
153.207);
   (C)   Churches and public buildings (§
153.208);
   (D)   Airports (§
153.206);
   (E)   Single-family cluster density bonus option (§
153.239);
   (F)   Disposal areas (§
153.210);
   (G)   Kennels; raising of fur-bearing animals (§
153.213);
   (H)   Group day care homes (§
153.217);
   (I)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221);
   (J)   Wireless communication facilities (§
153.230);
   (K)   Yard waste composting facilities (§
153.222);
   (L)   Single-family accessory apartment (§
153.223);
   (M)   High volume wells or well systems (§
153.234);
   (N)   Equestrian stables and riding academies (§
153.236);
   (O)   Mining and extraction (§
153.215);
   (P)   Golf courses (§
153.211);
   (Q)   Agricultural produce processing, transferring and storage facilities
(§
153.238);
   (R)   Veterinary clinics (§
153.242);
   (S)   Bed and breakfast provided that such use is part of a bona fide farm;
   (T)   Direct marketing of produce, farm market, on-farm market with when a
building or combination of building contain more than 2,500 square feet,
roadside stand if the sales area is greater than 200 square feet in building
area;
   (U)   Restaurant operations when incidental and accessory to other permitted
agricultural tourism uses on the site;
   (V)   Non-agriculturally related uses listed as permitted uses in the zone
but which include any of the following ancillary uses shall require a special
use permit:
      (1)   Permanent, organized meeting space for use by weddings, birthday
parties, and corporate picnics; and
      (2)   Designated, permanent parking for more than 20 vehicles.
   (W)   Mud bogs, including use of motorized off-road vehicles of all types on
any terrain (§
153.244).
   (X)   Home occupation for medical marihuana primary caregivers facilities.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 25, passed 4-9-2008; Ord. 26, passed 6-10-2009;
Ord. 32, passed 2-13-2013; Ord. 44, passed 2-9-2022)
§ 153.033 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in
accordance with §
153.168.
   (B)   In addition, the following accessory structures and uses may also be
permitted subject to the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Garage and yard sales provided that:
         (a)   The sale is limited to no more than five consecutive days;
         (b)   There are no more than two sales per calendar year; and
         (c)   Only the homeowner or occupant shall conduct such a sale (this
item does not apply to estate sales for deceased homeowners).
      (2)   Home occupations;
      (3)   One temporary roadside stand for the purpose of selling produce
shall be permitted subject to the following:
         (a)   Only produce raised or produced by the owner or the owner’s
family on the parcel(s) upon which the stand is located shall be offered for
sale;
         (b)   The stand shall be no more than 200 square feet and shall not
exceed one story or 14 feet in height; and
         (c)   The stand shall be located a minimum of 30 feet from the front
property line and shall be located so as to accommodate vehicle ingress, egress
and parking on a defined driveway.
      (4)   Private residential ponds and agricultural farm ponds in accordance
with §
153.185.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.034 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Site plans as required in §
153.180 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its
review and approval prior to issuance of a building permit for all special land
uses and for other uses or structures which require site plan review.
   (B)   Single-family homes shall meet the applicable requirements of §
153.150 and, where applicable, §
153.151 of this chapter.
   (C)   See §
153.169 regulating the screening of off-street parking areas for nonresidential
uses permitted in the AG Districts. All off-street parking shall be arranged so
as to minimize any impact on adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, regarding general requirements which may relate
to uses permitted in the District.
   (E)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §
153.150, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the maximum density
permitted providing minimum yard setback requirements and development options.
   (F)   No required front yard space in any AG District shall be used for the
storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or equipment.
   (G)   The storing or parking of machinery, equipment, vehicles, or other
materials is prohibited in any open areas except for agricultural equipment
owned and operated by the property owner and used for agricultural purposes on
premise subject to the requirements of division (F) above.
   (H)   The keeping of animals shall be regulated by the standards in §
153.191
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 36, passed 6-8-2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
SF SINGLE-FAMILY RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.045 INTENT.
   The purpose of this District is to permit the establishment of single-family
residential neighborhoods with a rural character at a slightly higher density
than that provided in the Agricultural Districts. These low-density residential
areas are intended to be located where soils have slight limitations for
installation of septic systems.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.046 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   In the Single-Family Rural Residential District, no building or land shall
be used and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the
following uses:
   (A)   Single-family homes in accordance with §
153.150 and, where applicable, §
153.151;
   (B)    Hobby farms. See §
153.191.
   (C)   Public recreational uses such as parks and playgrounds;
   (D)   State licensed family day care homes;
   (E)   Public buildings without outdoor storage yards;
   (F)   Home occupations; and
   (G)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses listed above may be
permitted by the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.047 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Educational institutions (§
153.219);
   (B)   Cemeteries (§
153.207);
   (C)   Churches and public buildings (§
153.208);
   (D)   Kennels, raising of fur-bearing animals (§
153.213);
   (E)   Single-family cluster density bonus option (§
153.239);
   (F)   Group day care homes (§
153.217);
   (G)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221);
   (H)   Wireless communication facilities (§
153.230);
   (I)   Single-family accessory apartment (§
153.223);
   (J)   High volume wells or well systems (§
153.234);
   (K)   Mining and extraction (§
153.215);
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.048 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in
accordance with §
153.168.
   (B)   In addition, the following accessory structures and uses may also be
permitted subject to the provisions of this section.
      (1)   Garage and yard sales provided that:
         (a)   The sale is limited to no more than five consecutive days;
         (b)   There are no more than two sales per calendar year; and
         (c)   Only the homeowner or occupant shall conduct such a sale (this
item does not apply to estate sales for deceased homeowners).
      (2)   One temporary roadside stand for the purpose of selling produce
shall be permitted subject to the following.
         (a)   Only produce raised or produced by the owner or the owner’s
family of the parcel(s) upon which the stand is located shall be offered for
sales.
         (b)   The stand shall be no more than 200 square feet and shall not
exceed one story or 14 feet in height.
         (c)   The stand shall be located a minimum of 30 feet from the front
property line and shall be located so as to accommodate vehicle ingress, egress
and parking on a defined driveway.
      (3)   Private residential ponds in accordance with §
153.185.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.049 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Site plans as required in §
153.180 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its
review and approval prior to issuance of a building permit for all special land
uses and for other uses or structures which require site plan review.
   (B)   Single-family homes shall meet the applicable requirements of §
153.150 and, where applicable, §
153.151.
   (C)   See §
153.169 regulating the screening of off-street parking areas for nonresidential
uses permitted in the SF Districts. All off-street parking shall be arranged so
as to minimize any impact on adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, regarding general requirements which may relate
to uses permitted in the District.
   (E)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §
153.150, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the maximum density
permitted providing minimum yard setback requirements and development options.
   (F)   No required front yard space in any SF District shall be used for the
storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or equipment.
   (G)   The storing or parking of machinery, equipment, vehicles or other
materials is prohibited in any open areas.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.060 INTENT.
   The intent of the Single-Family Rural Residential District is to provide for
single-family residential land uses at a transitional density between
agricultural and highway oriented development. The intent of the Single-Family
Rural Residential District is to provide for single-family residential land
uses at a transitional density between agricultural and highway oriented
development. These areas are primarily located along the Capac Road corridor
within close proximity to the village.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.061 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   In the Single-Family Rural Residential District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the
following uses:
      (1)   Single-family homes in accordance with §
153.150 and, where applicable, §
153.151;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings in accordance with §
153.151;
      (3)   Public recreational uses such as parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Mobile home parks developed in conformance with Public Act 96 of
1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, the Mobile Home Commission
Act, as amended, and the State Mobile Home Commission Rules, as promulgated;
      (5)   State licensed family day care homes; and
      (6)   Public buildings and uses without outdoor storage yards.
   (B)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses listed above may be
permitted by the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.062 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Educational institutions (§
153.219);
   (B)   Cemeteries (§
153.207);
   (C)   Churches and public buildings (§
153.208);
   (D)   Group day care homes and group day care facilities (§
153.217);
   (E)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221); and
   (F)   Single-family accessory apartment (§
153.223).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, structure and uses shall be permitted in
accordance with §
153.168.
   (B)   In addition, the following accessory structures and uses may be
permitted subject to the provisions of this section.
      (1)   Garage and yard sales provided that:
         (a)   The sale is limited to no more than five consecutive days;
         (b)   There are no more than two sales per calendar year; and
         (c)   Only the homeowner or occupant shall conduct such a sale (this
item does not apply to estate sales for deceased homeowners).
      (2)   Private residential ponds in accordance with §
153.185.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.064 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Site plans as required in §
153.180 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its
review and approval prior to issuance of a building permit for all uses in the
R-1 District.
   (B)   See §
153.170 regulating the screening of off-street parking areas for nonresidential
uses permitted in the R-1 District. All off-street parking shall be arranged so
as to minimize any impact on adjacent residential properties.
   (C)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, regarding general requirements which may relate
to uses permitted in the District.
   (D)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §§
153.150 and
153.151, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the maximum density
permitted providing minimum yard setback requirements and development options.
   (E)   No required front yard space in any R-1 District shall be used for the
storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or equipment.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
RM MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.075 INTENT.
   The Multiple-Family Residential District (RM District) is intended to
provide areas for two-family and multiple-family dwellings and related uses
with a higher overall density. These Districts are intended to be located in
close proximity to the higher density uses, services and pedestrian oriented
access of the Village of Capac.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.076 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   In the Multiple-Family Residential District, no building or land shall be
used and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the following
uses:
   (A)   Two-family dwellings in accordance with §
153.150;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings in accordance with §
153.151;
   (C)   Independent elderly housing that includes higher density apartment and
townhome housing similar to multiple-family development that may have common
community rooms and kitchen facilities. This use does not include convalescent,
nursing home or assisted living facilities;
   (D)   Public buildings and uses without storage yards, excluding post
offices, public museums and public libraries;
   (E)   Public parks and playgrounds;
   (F)   State licensed family day care homes; and
   (G)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses listed above may be
permitted by the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.077 SPECIAL LAND USE.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Convalescent or rest homes, and assisted living (§
153.218);
   (B)   Educational institutions (§
153.219);
   (C)   Group day care homes (§
153.217);
   (D)   Churches and public buildings (§
153.208);
   (E)   Public buildings and uses with outdoor storage yards (§
153.227);
   (F)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221); and
   (G)   Single-family dwellings in accordance with §
153.150 and provided:
      (1)   The location of the proposed single-family dwelling shall be in an
area conductive to single-family development and appropriately buffered from
more intensive uses permitted in the District;
      (2)   All single-family structures shall be setback at least 30 feet from
any property line shared with a multiple-family or non-residential use; and
      (3)   Lot dimensions and development shall conform with the R-1 District
standards.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.078 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in accordance
with §
153.168.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.079 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Site plans as required in §
153.180 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for its
review and approval prior to issuance of a building permit for all uses in the
RM District.
   (B)   See §
153.169 regulating the screening of off-street parking areas for nonresidential
uses permitted in the RM District. All off-street parking shall be arranged so
as to minimize any impact on adjacent residential properties.
   (C)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, regarding general requirements, which may relate
to uses permitted in the District.
   (D)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §§
153.150 and
153.151, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the maximum density
permitted providing minimum yard setback requirements and development options.
   (E)   No required front yard space in any RM District shall be used for the
storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or equipment.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
B-1 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.090 INTENT.
   The intent of the Local Commercial District (B-1 District) is to provide for
the day-to-day convenience commercial and service needs of township residents.
These areas are intended to compliment the village’s commercial center. The
Local Commercial Districts are not intended to provide for the convenience
needs of highway oriented traffic or general retail needs.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.091 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   In the Local Business District, no building or land shall be used and no
building shall be erected except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   General office buildings for such uses as: executive, administrative,
governmental, clerical, sales offices and similar uses;
   (B)   Service office buildings for such uses as: real estate sales office,
insurance service center, public utility companies without service/storage
yards, banks, savings and loan, credit union branch offices and similar uses,
excluding any such use which contains a drive-through window;
   (C)   Professional office buildings for such uses as: attorney, accountant,
interior designer and similar uses;
   (D)   Medical and dental offices, excluding 24-hour walk-in clinics,
ambulatory care centers and hospitals;
   (E)   Generally recognized retail businesses which supply commodities on the
premises, such as but not limited to: groceries, meats, dairy products, baked
goods, beverages, drugs, dry goods, clothing, books, hardware and similar uses;
   (F)   Personal service establishments which perform services on the premises
such as, but not limited to: shoe repair, tailor, beauty parlor, barber shop,
photographer, photo drop off with or without on-site processing, instant or
quick printing shop and similar uses;
   (G)   Restaurants, including sit down and carry-out, but excluding drive-ins
and any restaurant with a drive-through or pick-up window;
   (H)   Churches and public buildings;
   (I)   Funeral homes;
   (J)   Public buildings including community or recreation centers without
outdoor storage yards;
   (K)   Self-service laundries, laundries and dry cleaning establishments
dealing directly with the consumer, but excluding central dry cleaning plants
serving more than one retail outlet; and
   (L)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses above may be permitted by
the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.092 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Single-family accessory apartments (§
153.223);
   (B)   Cemeteries (§
153.207);
   (C)   Convalescent or rest homes (§
153.218);
   (D)   Educational institutions (§
153.219);
   (E)   Group day care facilities (§
153.217);
   (F)   Medical and dental offices with 24-hour walk-in clinics or ambulatory
care centers, but excluding hospitals (§
153.212);
   (G)   Private clubs and lodge halls (§
153.241); and
   (H)   Utility and public service buildings (§
153.221).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.093 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in accordance
with §
153.168.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.094 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall be office and service establishments dealing directly
with customers.
   (B)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street parking
or loading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, unless
otherwise permitted through special land use approval. All accessory buildings
shall be similar in architectural design and materials to the principal
building.
   (C)   Waste materials of any sort shall be screened from public view by a
masonry wall and shall be consolidated in a defined trash receptacle area as
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   (1)   Exterior site lighting shall be in accordance with §
153.175.
      (2)   In addition, where a building wall faces an abutting residential
district there shall be no floodlighting of such facade. This shall not
preclude the lighting of doorways on such facades.
   (E)   (1)   All uses in this District require site plan review and approval.
      (2)   Site plans shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of
§
153.180 of this chapter and shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (F)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, relating to off-street parking, off-street
parking layout, landscaping and screening requirements and other sections of
the subchapter as they relate to uses permitted in the District.
   (G)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §§
153.150 and
153.151, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the minimum yard
setback requirements and development options.
   (H)   No required front yard space in any B-1 Local Commercial District
shall be used for the storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or
equipment.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
B-2 HIGHWAY-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.105 INTENT.
   The purpose of this District is to provide convenient commercial services to
the passing motorist while minimizing increased traffic or related congestion
in the township of Village. Design standards are intended to minimize the
negative impacts of development within these districts. Uses within this
district are of a general retail and highway oriented character which will
provide commercial services to the township and adjacent communities.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.106 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   In the Highway-Oriented Commercial District, no building or land shall be
used and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the following
uses:
   (A)   Generally recognized retail businesses which supply commodities on the
premises, such as but not limited to: groceries, meats, dairy products, baked
goods, beverages, drugs, dry goods, clothing, books, hardware and similar uses;
   (B)   Financial institutions, including but not limited to: banks, savings
and loan, and credit unions, excluding drive-through facilities;
   (C)   Restaurants, excluding drive-in or drive-through window facilities;
   (D)   General, service, sales, and professional offices;
   (E)   Medical and dental offices, including 24-hour walk-in clinics and
ambulatory care centers, but excluding hospitals;
   (F)   Personal service shops such as: tailor, beauty parlor, barber shop,
photographer, photo drop off with or without on-site processing, instant or
quick printing shop, shoe repair, laundromats and dry cleaning establishments,
provided the actual dry cleaning takes place off-site, and similar uses;
   (G)   Private clubs, lodge halls and similar uses;
   (H)   Public buildings without storage yards, including community centers,
libraries, museums and post offices;
   (I)   Self-storage facilities when fully enclosed within a building. Outdoor
or open storage shall be prohibited;
   (J)   Businesses offering indoor recreational and public entertainment such
as, but not limited to: bowling alleys, skating rinks and movie theaters; and
   (K)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses above may be permitted by
the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 25, passed 4-9-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.107 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Drive-through facilities (§
153.225);
   (B)   General hospitals (§
153.212);
   (C)   Hotels and motels (§
153.226);
   (D)   Agricultural implement sales and service facilities (§
153.240);
   (E)   New and used vehicles sales (see §
153.220) with outdoor sales lots.
   (F)   Vehicle convenience stations (§
153.216);
   (G)   Vehicle wash facilities (§
153.233);
   (H)   Vehicle service centers and repair garages (§
153.224);
   (I)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221);
   (J)   Wireless communication facilities (§
153.230);
   (K)   Commercial, outdoor recreation (§
153.209); and
   (L)   Veterinary clinics.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 25, passed 4-9-2008)
§ 153.108 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in
accordance with §
153.168.
   (B)   In addition, the following accessory structures and uses may also be
permitted only when conducted within a completely enclosed building, subject to
the following.
      (1)   Garages shall be used exclusively for the storage of passenger
motor vehicles and/or commercial vehicles of less than one-ton capacity, which
are to be used in connection with a business permitted and located in the B-
2 Highway-Oriented Commercial District.
      (2)   Sidewalk sales shall be permitted only as provided hereunder:
         (a)   No person, firm, corporation or merchants shall vend, sell,
dispose of or display any goods, wares, merchandise or produce on any public
street or sidewalk or anywhere else outside a building without full compliance
with this section for the period of said sidewalk sale;
         (b)   Sidewalk sales shall be permitted for no more than three days.
No more than two such sidewalk sales shall be permitted on a site to any
person, firm, corporation or merchant in a single calendar year;
         (c)   Sale of the merchandise under this division (B)(2) shall be
limited to merchandise usually sold on the premises. No new merchandise shall
be brought in to vend, sell, dispose of or display at the sidewalk sale; and
         (d)   All merchandise offered for sale hereunder must be displayed on
private property. Merchandise shall be securely and adequately placed so that
it will not endanger passersby or fall or extend into the public right-of-way.
Such sales shall not be operated in any manner which would cause a nuisance, or
create a fire hazard or obstruct ingress and egress to premises.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.109 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall be retail or service establishments dealing directly
with customers. All retail goods produced on the premises shall be sold on
premises.
   (B) All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street parking or
loading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, unless
otherwise permitted through special land use approval. All accessory buildings
shall be similar in architectural design and materials to the principal
building.
   (C)   Waste materials of any sort shall be screened from public view by a
masonry wall and shall be consolidated in a defined trash receptacle area as
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Exterior site lighting shall be in accordance with §
153.175. In addition, where a building wall faces an abutting residential
district there shall be no floodlighting of such facade. This shall not
preclude the lighting of doorways on such facades.
   (E)   All uses in this district require site plan review and approval. Site
plans shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of §
153.180 of this chapter and shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (F)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, relating to off-street parking, off-street
parking layout, landscaping and screening requirements and other sections of
the subchapter as they relate to uses permitted in the District.
   (G)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §§
153.150 and
153.151, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the minimum yard
setback requirements and development options.
   (H)   No required front yard space in any B-2 Highway-Oriented Commercial
District shall be used for the storage or parking of vehicles or any other
materials or equipment.
   (I)   The storing or parking of machinery, equipment, vehicles or other
materials in any open areas is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
RC RECREATION CONSERVATION DISTRICT
§ 153.120 INTENT.
   The Recreation Conservation District is intended to provide for recreational
uses within the township. It is further the intent of these Districts that any
use, improvement or development of these lands should be designed to safeguard,
preserve and protect the natural features present on the site to include
woodlands and wetlands, and ensure compatibility with adjacent uses.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.121 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted in this chapter, no building shall be
erected and no building or land shall be used in the RC Recreation Conservation
Districts except for one or more of the following:
      (1)   Public and private parks, but excluding motorized off-road vehicles
of all types;
      (2)   Public buildings, excluding any outdoor storage yard;
      (3)   Nature preserves;
      (4)   Farms; petting farms; educational farms; and
      (5)   A single, residential dwelling only for the owner, operator or
caretaker of one of the above permitted uses.
   (B)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses listed above may be
permitted by the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.122 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Campgrounds (§
153.214);
   (B)   Equestrian stables and riding academies (§
153.236);
   (C)   Shooting ranges, gun clubs and large-scale gaming preserves (§
153.214);
   (D)   Golf courses (§
153.211);
   (E)   Public buildings or uses with outdoor storage yards (§
153.227);
   (F)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221); and
   (G)   Wireless communication facilities (§
153.230).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.123 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in accordance
with §
153.168.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.124 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Buildings or outdoor use areas for any animals, storage, vehicular
parking or maintenance equipment shall be setback at least 100 feet from all
property lines.
   (B)   All uses in this District require site plan review and approval. Site
plans shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of §
153.180 and shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to
issuance of a building permit.
   (C)   See §
153.169 regulating the screening of off-street parking areas for nonresidential
uses permitted in the RC Districts. All off-street parking shall be arranged so
as to minimize any impact on adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, regarding general requirements, which may relate
to uses permitted in the District.
   (E)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §
153.150, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the maximum density
permitted providing minimum yard setback requirements and development options.
   (F)   No required front yard space in any RC District shall be used for the
storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or equipment.
   (G)   The storing or parking of machinery, equipment, vehicles or other
materials is prohibited in any open areas.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.135 INTENT.
   The Light Industrial District is intended to provide for the limited
industrial and manufacturing uses. These Districts are intended to be located
so as to reduce a negative impact on the township’s agricultural and
residential character. Also, design standards are intended to minimize the
negative impacts of development within these Districts. This District is
intended to be within close proximity to I-69, M-21, the village, existing or
proposed utilities, and access to adequate paved roads for these more intense
uses.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.136 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   In the Light Industrial District, no building or land shall be used
and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the following uses
when carried out entirely within an enclosed building:
      (1)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treatment or
fabrication of such products as: bakery goods, candy, ceramics, cosmetics,
clothing, electrical and electrical equipment, jewelry, instruments, optical
goods, pharmaceutical, toiletries, hardware, cutlery and pottery;
      (2)   Research, experimental, film or testing laboratories;
      (3)   Retail uses which have an industrial character in terms of either
their outdoor storage requirements or activities including but not limited to
lumberyards, home centers or building materials outlets;
      (4)   Educational facilities, trade and vocational schools;
      (5)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments or
precision devices, radios, musical instruments, toys, novelties, sporting goods
and photographic equipment;
      (6)   Warehousing, storage or wholesale facilities;
      (7)   Cold storage, warehousing and distribution uses, and similar
businesses involved in the receipt, storage, sales and delivery of
remanufactured products;
      (8)   Meeting halls for union, trade or similar organizations;
      (9)   Offices of an engineering, electrical or industrial design firm or
other similar use;
      (10)   Self-storage facilities (mini warehouses); and
      (11)   Wireless communication facilities subject to the standards of §
153.230.
   (B)   Uses similar to the principal permitted uses above may be permitted by
the Planning Commission based upon findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.137 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following special land uses shall be permitted only after review and
approval by the Planning Commission, subject to the requirements and standards
of §§
153.205 through
153.244 and the submission of a site plan conforming with the requirements of §
153.180:
   (A)   Motor freight and truck terminals (§
153.229);
   (B)   Central dry cleaning plants (§
153.232);
   (C)   Utility and public service facilities (§
153.221);
   (D)   Tool, die, gauge, metal plating and machine shops (§
153.237);
   (E)   Outdoor storage yards for contractors equipment, vehicles and
materials including but not limited to salvage, junk, recycling, reclamation or
scrap yards (§
153.231);
   (F)   Yard waste composting facilities (§
153.222);
   (G)   Lumber and planing mills (§
153.235); and
   (H)   Mining and extraction (§
153.215).
   (I)   Any operation that handles or processes hazardous waste.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 6, passed 12-9-2015) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.138 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be permitted in accordance
with §
153.168, including accessory outdoor storage which conforms with the provisions
of §
153.231 (special approval not required).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.139 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   All uses within the LI District shall comply with the following required
conditions.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, all uses shall be
conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.
   (B)   Outdoor storage is permitted which is clearly accessory to the
permitted principal use, limited in scale, incidental to the primary indoor use
(s) on the site and completely screened in accordance with site requirements of
§
153.177.
   (C)   No truck well, loading dock or door, shall be permitted on or in the
wall of the building which faces an abutting residential district and only
pedestrian exits or emergency doors shall be allowed on such wall. All loading/
unloading docks and truck wells shall be placed on or in the wall of the
building that is opposite the boundary of the residential district or on the
wall that lies approximately at a 90 degree angle to the residential district
boundary. If such dock, truck well or door shall be recessed by not less than
60 feet from the front wall of the building in order to provide that a truck
tractor and trailer shall not, when in place for loading or unloading at the
dock or well, project past the front wall of the building. Also, the site plan
and driveways shall be designed in such a manner to discourage truck access to
that portion of the lot or site that is adjacent to the residential district.
   (D)   Waste materials of any sort shall be screened from public view by a
masonry wall and shall be consolidated in a defined dumpster/trash receptacle
area as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Exterior site lighting shall be in accordance with §
153.175. In addition, where a building wall faces an abutting residential
district there shall be no floodlighting of such facade. This shall not
preclude the lighting of doorways on such facades.
   (F)   For all uses permitted in the LI District, there shall be a finding by
the Planning Commission that:
      (1)   The scale, size, building design, facade materials, landscaping and
activity of the use is such that current and future adjacent residential uses
will be protected from any adverse impacts;
      (2)   The intended truck delivery service can be effectively handled
without long term truck parking on-site;
      (3)   The lighting, noise, vibration, odor and other possible impacts are
in compliance with standards and intent of this subchapter and performance
standards of §
153.172; and
      (4)   The storage and/or use of any volatile, flammable or other
materials shall be fully identified in the application and shall comply with
any township ordinance regarding toxic or hazardous materials.
   (G)   All uses in this District require site plan review and approval. Site
plans shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of §
153.180 of this chapter and shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (H)   See §§
153.165 through
153.191, General Regulations, relating to off-street parking, off-street
parking layout, landscaping and screening requirements and other sections of
the subchapter as they relate to uses permitted in the District.
   (I)   Except where otherwise regulated in this subchapter, refer to §
153.150, Schedule of District Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of
buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, the minimum yard
setback requirements and development options.
   (J)   No required front yard space in any LI - Light Industrial District
shall be used for the storage or parking of vehicles or any other materials or
equipment.
   (K)   The storing or parking of machinery, equipment, vehicles or other
materials is prohibited in any open areas.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.150 HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, AREA, SETBACK AND LOT COVERAGE BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, AREA, SETBACK AND LOT COVERAGE BY DISTRICT
                         MAXIMUM      MINIMUM YARD SETBACK
                         HEIGHT OF    PER  LOT (IN FEET) (1) MINIMUM
                         STRUCTURES   (7)                    FLOOR   MAXIMUM
         MINIMUM MINIMUM (1)                Sides (3)        AREA    PERCENTAGE
         LOT     LOT                                         PER     OF LOT
USE      AREA    WIDTH                                       SINGLE- AREA
DISTRICT (1) (9) (IN                  Front       Total Rear FAMILY  COVERED BY
         (10)    FEET)   In      In   (8)   Least of 2  (12) UNIT    ALL
                 (11)    Stories Feet       One   Sides (14) (SQ.    BUILDINGS
                                                             FT.)
                         MAXIMUM      MINIMUM YARD SETBACK
                         HEIGHT OF    PER  LOT (IN FEET) (1) MINIMUM
                         STRUCTURES   (7)                    FLOOR   MAXIMUM
         MINIMUM MINIMUM (1)                Sides (3)        AREA    PERCENTAGE
         LOT     LOT                                         PER     OF LOT
USE      AREA    WIDTH                                       SINGLE- AREA
DISTRICT (1) (9) (IN                  Front       Total Rear FAMILY  COVERED BY
         (10)    FEET)   In      In   (8)   Least of 2  (12) UNIT    ALL
                 (11)    Stories Feet       One   Sides (14) (SQ.    BUILDINGS
                                                             FT.)


AG       3 acres 250     2½     35   75    30    60    50   1,200   16%
AG W/new 2.5
road     acres   250     2½     35   50    20    40    50   1,200   35%
         (6)
SF       2.5     250     2½     35   75    30    60    50   1,200   20%
         acres
SF W/    2 acres 250     2½     35   50    20    40    50   1,200   35%
new road (6)
R-1 W/
out
Sewer    2 acres 250     2½     35   50    20    40    50   1,000   10%
and
Water
(4)
R-1 W/
Sewer
and      ½ acre 80      2½     30   35    10    20    35   1,000   35%
Water
(4)
RM (13)  1 acre  150     2½     35   35    20    40    50   1,000   10%
                                                             (5)
RC       SPR (2) SPR (2) 2½     35   75(2) 50(2) 100   50   (2)     (2), (15)
                                                  (2)   (2)
B-1      1 acre  150     2       30   35    10    35    35   N/A     (O)
                                                        (13)
B-2      1 acre  150     2       30   35    10    35    35   N/A     (O)
                                                        (13)
LI       2 acres 250     2       35   75    50    100   100  N/A     30%
 
N/A - Not Applicable
SPR - Site Plan Review
( ) - See Footnote in division (B) on following page
   (B)   Footnotes to §
153.150 Limiting Height, Bulk, Density, and Area by Land Use.
      (1)   See §
153.168 for height, bulk, density, area and setback requirements for accessory
structures and uses.
      (2)   A caretaker’s residence shall conform to the Schedule of District
Regulations for a single-family home in the R-1 District.
      (3)   In all districts, side yards which abut a street or road shall be
considered a street-side side yard for purposes of this chapter. All street-
side side yards shall meet the minimum front yard setback requirements for
permitted structures in the district.
      (4)   Mobile home parks shall be developed in accordance with Public Act
96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, the Mobile Home
Commission Act, as amended and the State Mobile Home Commission rules, as
promulgated.
      (5)   The minimum floor area per dwelling unit for multiple-family
dwellings in the RM District shall be as follows:
 
Type of Unit*        Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit
Efficiency Unit      450 s.f.
One Bedroom Unit     600 s.f.
Two Bedroom Unit     750 s.f.
Each Additional Room 150 s.f. per room
* Based on number of bedrooms in the dwelling unit.
 
      (6)   If only one new curb cut-off of an existing public road is proposed
for the entire parent parcel then lot areas may be reduced to two and one-half
acres (AG District) and two acres (SF District) for 20% of all proposed lots.
All lots shall have frontage on the access to a new public or private road. The
buildable area and lot area shall be as provided for in footnote (9) and (10)
below. The density permitted on the net buildable land area within the AG and
SF Districts is as follows:
         (a)   AG - 0.33 dwelling units per acre; and
         (b)   SF - 0.4 dwelling units per acre.
      (7)   Where there are two or more permitted principal buildings on the
same parcel, the required minimum distance between the buildings shall be 20
feet.
      (8)   The required front yard and exterior side yard setback shall be
measured from the right-of-way line or easement line for public roads, private
roads and private access easements. The required front yard setback for
residential districts abutting a major thoroughfare shall have a minimum of 50
feet.
      (9)   Calculations for determining the minimum lot area shall not include
any right-of-way or easement area for a public road, private road or access
easement.
      (10)   Calculations for determining maximum density and the number of
lots permitted shall be based upon net buildable land area (areas such as
wetlands, floodplains and sub-aqueous areas shall not be included in
calculations for determining maximum density and number of lots permitted).
Where a single-family cluster development is proposed, designed and approved in
conformance with §
153.151 - Single Family Cluster Design Standards or §
153.239  -Single Family Cluster Density Bonus Option, the Planning Commission
may approve up to 50% of wetland, floodplain and sub-aqueous areas in
calculations for determining maximum density and number of lots permitted,
subject to the criteria in §
153.151  or §
153.239 , whichever is applicable. The minimum lot size and lot width shall not
be reduced in any fashion beyond what is permitted by §§
153.150,
153.151  and
153.239 , whichever is applicable.
      (11)   Lot width to depth ratio shall not exceed 1:4.
      (12)   Loading space shall be provided in the rear yard in the ratio of
at least ten square feet per front foot of building, and shall be computed
separately from the off-street parking requirements. Where an alley exists or
is provided at the rear of buildings, the rear building setback and loading
requirements may be computed from the center of said alley.
      (13)   For the purpose of yard regulations, multiple-family dwellings
shall be considered as one building occupying one lot. Front, side and rear
yards relating to the spacing between buildings within RM Districts shall have
the following minimum overall dimensions:
                      Overall Distance Between Buildings (Exclusive of Parking
Building Relationship Area)
                      Overall Distance Between Buildings (Exclusive of Parking
Building Relationship Area)
Front to Side         45 feet
Front to Front        50 feet
Front to Rear         *60 feet
Rear to Rear          *60 feet
Rear to Side          45 feet
Side to Side          20 feet
Corner to Corner      15 feet
 
      (14)   Parking may be permitted in 50% of the required rear yard provided
that there shall be at least 15 feet of yard space between said parking area
and the building.
      (15)   The maximum percentage of lot coverage shall be determined on the
basis of off-street parking, loading, screening and yard setback requirements
as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.151 SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTER DESIGN STANDARDS.
    (A)   Requirement established. All subdivisions, condominium subdivisions
and lot splits which are proposed under this section, must conform to the
following single-family cluster design standards.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of these clusters design standards is to encourage
the long-term preservation of open space, agricultural land, unique rural
character, natural features and the provision of recreation and open space
areas.
   (C)   Required cluster design standards.
      (1)   The following table details required design standards for all
single-family cluster developments proposed under this section:
 
Zone Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width Minimum Open Space(a) Density Dwelling
                                                              Units/Acre
AG   2.5 acres        250 feet          10%                   0.4
SF   2 acres          200 feet          10%                   0.5
(a) Minimum open space required as percentage of total site area excluding
rights-of-way and easements
 
      (2)   All lots shall be served by an internal public or private road
network. No lots shall front upon the existing county road.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide evidence of County Health Department
approval for proposed septic and well locations for all lots proposed under
this section.
      (4)   The permanent open space shall include the site’s most significant
natural, agricultural and/or cultural environmental features, such as:
         (a)   Steep slopes;
         (b)   Wetlands, floodplains, natural watercourses;
         (c)   Woodlands;
         (d)   Scenic views;
         (e)   Agricultural or equestrian components;
         (f)   Historical structures;
         (g)   Recreational pathways and facilities; and
         (h)   Similar features approved by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Individual dwellings and clusters of homes shall be visually
screened from view along existing roadway corridors, in order to reduce visual
impact and the appearance of a typical subdivision.
      (6)   Open space areas shall be accessible to all lots in the
development, either directly, from a pathway system, or from the internal road
network. Where the open space is agricultural land, the open space dedication
and maintenance agreement shall include limitations on physical access to the
open space for non-agricultural purposes and provisions for adequate,
unrestricted agricultural, farming, implement or other access necessary for
agricultural uses or activities. Access to agricultural use areas shall be
separate from residential access to units and open space areas.
   (D)   Open space maintenance.
      (1)   All open space shall be permanent and set aside in perpetuity.
      (2)   Open space shall be in single ownership and maintained by any of,
but not necessarily limited to, the following:
         (a)   Deed restrictions or condominium master deed restrictions with
the township named as a controlling party regarding preservation and
maintenance of dedicated open space areas;
         (b)   Dedication of open space to a public body or private land
conservancy or trust; and
         (c)   Conservation easement granted to a public body or private land
conservancy or trust.
      (3)   All open space ownership and maintenance agreements shall be
reviewed and approved as to form and content by township legal counsel prior to
approval by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   All open space agreements which involve donations of land to the
township or which name the township as a party to any agreement shall be
approved by the Township Board prior to final approval of the development
proposal by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Review process.
      (1)   All proposed single-family cluster developments shall be reviewed
in compliance with the appropriate procedure for the type of development (lot
split, subdivision, site condominium and the like) in accordance with the
design criteria in this section. The Township Board shall approve the private
road prior to final approval by the Planning Commission in accordance with §§
91.01 through
91.06.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the cluster site plan for
conformance with this section, §
153.180 Site Plan Review and §
153.239 where the single-family cluster density bonus option is sought. In
addition, the Planning Commission shall determine that the site plan conforms
with the following:
         (a)   Preservation of streams, watercourses, wetlands, floodplains,
areas of unique topography, prime agricultural or equestrian lands, woodlands
or open fields;
         (b)   Minimizes impact of road, utility and lot construction on the
existing topography and land cover;
         (c)   Minimizes necessary extensions of roads, utilities and other
infrastructure; and
         (d)   Provides adequate access to the open space areas.
   (F)   Private roads. Where a proposed single-family cluster development
includes private roads, the Planning Commission and Township Board shall
approve the private roads in conformance with Chapter 151 and §§
91.01 through
91.06.
   (G)   Cluster density bonus option. Subject to the provisions of §
153.239 Single-Family Cluster Density Bonus Option, and after special land use
approval by the Planning Commission, a density bonus may be applied for by the
applicant and landowner.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.165 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Wherever any provision of this chapter imposes more stringent requirements,
regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or required by the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this chapter
shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance impose more
stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, then the
provisions of such ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.166 SCOPE.
   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed or altered and maintained, and no new use or change shall be made
or maintained of any building, structure of land, or part thereof, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.167 NONCONFORMING LOTS, NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND, NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES AND NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit legal nonconforming
lots, structures or uses to continue until they are removed.
      (2)   It is recognized that there exist within the districts established
by this chapter uses which were lawful before this chapter was passed or
amended which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of
this chapter or future amendments.
      (3)   Such uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible permitted
uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of this chapter that
nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used
as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
      (4)   A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land or
a nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this chapter by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition
of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district
involved.
      (5)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent manner;
except that where demolition or removal of an existing building has been
substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such demolition or removal shall
be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work shall be diligently
carried on until completion of the building involved.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area, or width or both, that are generally applicable n the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located. Yard requirement variances may be
obtained through approval of the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not
meet the requirements for lot width and area as established by this chapter,
the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the
purposes of this chapter, and no portion of said parcel shall be used or
occupied which does not meet lot width and area requirements established by
this chapter, nor shall any division of the parcel be made which leaves
remaining any lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this
chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended, such use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 90 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity; for example, existing residences on lots of a
width less than required herein may add a rear porch provided that other
requirements relative to yard space and land coverage are met.
      (2)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than 60% of its replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should such structures be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses of structures and land. If a lawful use of a
structure, or of structures and land in combination, exists at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use, and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
      (3)   In any district, if no structural alterations are made, any
nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to
another nonconforming use of the same or a more restricted classification
provided that the Board of Appeals, either by general rule or by making
findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally
appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming
use. In permitting such change, the Board of Appeals may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accord with the purpose and intent of this
chapter. Where a nonconforming use of a structure, land or structure and land
in combination is hereafter changed to a more restrictive classification, it
shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted classification.
      (4)   Any structure, or structures and land combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to
the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      (5)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or ceases to exist for six consecutive months
or for 18 months during any three-year period, the structure, or structure and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance
with the regulations of the district in which it is located. Structures
occupied by seasonal uses shall be excepted from this provision.
   (F)   Repairs and maintenance. 
      (1)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming
use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary
repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or
plumbing to an extent not exceeding 50% of the assessed value of the building,
provided that the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of
passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety,
upon order of such official.
   (G)   Uses allowed as special land uses not nonconforming uses. Any use
which is permitted as a special land use as provided in this chapter shall not
be deemed a nonconforming use in such district.
   (H)   Change of tenancy or ownership. There may be a change of tenancy, or
ownership or management of any existing nonconforming uses of land, structures
and premises provided there is no charge in the nature or character of such
nonconforming uses.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.168 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Zoning compliance permit required in all cases. A zoning compliance
permit shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior to the erection or
placement of any accessory building regardless of whether or not a building
permit is required under the Building Code. This requirement shall apply to all
accessory buildings without regard to size or intended use.
   (B)   Attached accessory buildings. Where the accessory building is
structurally attached to a main building, it shall be subject to, and must
conform to all regulations of this chapter applicable to the main building.
   (C)   Use of accessory buildings. Accessory buildings in any district shall
only be used for permitted uses or activities customarily incidental to the
permitted principal uses in the district.
   (D)   Location on same lot as principal structure. All accessory buildings
must be located on the same lot as the principal structure to which it is
necessary.
   (E)   Prohibition on front yard location, exception. Accessory buildings
that are accessory to any residential building or use shall not be located in
any required or non-required front yard, except where the main building is set
back at least 300 feet from the edge of the planned right-of-way. In such case,
the Planning Commission may approve the location of an accessory building
within a non-required front yard, provided the Planning Commission finds that
the proposed exterior building materials are of the same quality and type as
the main building, or are of equal quality and of an aesthetically
complementary type.
   (F)   Permitted side yard location in AG District. Accessory buildings that
are accessory to any residential building or use may be located in a side yard
when located on a lot or parcel within an AG Agricultural District, provided
that no accessory buildings shall be located less than 15 feet from a side lot
line, nor occupy more than 25% of any side yard.
   (G)   Maximum number of sheds. For the purpose of this section, a detached
accessory building (with or without a permanent foundation) having a ground
floor area of 200 square feet or less shall be considered to be a shed. The
maximum number of such sheds permitted on a lot or parcel of less than five
acres shall not exceed two, and when located on a lot or parcel of five acres
or more, shall not exceed three.
   (H)   Maximum height when accessory to residential use. The side walls of a
building that is accessory to any residential building or use shall not exceed
16 feet in height.
   (I)   Maximum coverage when in a rear yard. Detached accessory buildings
(singly or in combination) shall not occupy more than 25% of a required rear
yard, plus 40% of any non-required rear yard.
   (J)   Distance from other structures. Detached accessory buildings shall be
located a minimum of ten feet from all other structures.
   (K)   Distance from side and rear lot lines. No detached accessory building
shall be located closer than:
      (1)   Five feet to any side or rear lot line when located in an R-1 or RM
District; or
      (2)   Fifteen feet to any side or rear lot line when located in an AG,
SF, or RC District.
   (L)   Location in dedicated easement or right-of-way prohibited. In no
instance shall an accessory building be located within a dedicated easement or
right-of-way.
   (M)   Maximum height in business districts. The building walls of a detached
accessory building in the B-l and B-2 Districts shall not exceed 16 feet in
height.
   (N)   Location on corner lots. When a building accessory to a residential
building is located on a corner lot, the side lot of which is substantially a
continuation of a front line of the lot to its rear, said building shall not
project beyond the front yard setback required on the lot in the rear of such
corner lot. A building accessory to a residential building shall in no case be
located nearer than ten feet to a street right-of-way line.
   (O)   Erection prohibited prior to principal building, exceptions. No
accessory building shall be constructed prior to construction of the principal
building on the same lot or parcel, except in accordance with one of the
following.
      (1)   For principal permitted uses that do not require structures, an
accessory building may be constructed following township approval of the
principal use and issuance of required building permits.
      (2)   A building permit for a pole barn may be issued following the
issuance of any other applicable permits and submittal of a complete
application with supporting materials for the proposed principal structure.
      (3)   A temporary recreational vehicle or trailer may be permitted on a
parcel in order to temporarily house the owner and secure tools and materials
for the principal single-family dwelling under construction, subject to the
standards for §
153.188.
   (P)   Farm buildings. All accessory farm buildings intended for legitimate
agricultural and farm uses, as defined in the definition of “agriculture” and
the definition of “farm” in §
153.002 of this chapter, and for uses other than those customarily incidental
to the dwelling, shall be located not less than 100 feet from any dwelling and
not less than 25 feet from any lot line or property boundary, with the
exception that the main farm building shall not be less than 150 feet from the
front property line. This requirement shall not apply to the alteration of, or
addition to, an existing barn or other farm buildings which are located closer
to the road and which existed prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   (Q)   Limits on number and size not applicable to agricultural buildings or
buildings containing approved special land uses. Provisions of this section
relating to limits on the number and size of accessory buildings are intended
only to apply to accessory buildings which are accessory and customarily
incidental to a residential use and shall not apply to accessory buildings used
as an integral part of a bona fide farm, nor to accessory buildings containing
a lawful nonresidential permitted or special land use which has been approved
by the township.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 29B, passed 12-14-2011; Ord. 29B, passed 3-11-
2015) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.169 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be provided in all districts at the time of erection or
enlargement of any main building or structure, automobile off-street parking
space with adequate access to all spaces.
   (B)   The number of off-street parking spaces, in conjunction with all land
or building uses, shall be provided prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy as hereinafter prescribed.
      (1)   Off-street parking may be located within any nonrequired yard and
within the rear yard setback unless otherwise provided in this chapter. Off-
street parking shall not be permitted in a required front or side yard setback
unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either
on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot. Ownership shall be shown of all lots or parcels
intended for use as parking by the applicant.
      (3)   Residential off-street parking shall consist of a parking strip,
parking bay, driveway, garage or combination thereof and shall be located on
the premises they are intended to serve, and subject to the provisions of §
153.168, Accessory Buildings, of this chapter.
      (4)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never
be changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
      (5)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter,
in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or new use.
      (6)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking in which case the required number of parking spaces shall
not be less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual uses
computed separately.
      (7)   In the instance of dual function of off-street parking spaces where
operating hours of buildings do not overlap, the Board of Appeals may grant an
exception.
      (8)   The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks or
repair of vehicles is prohibited within or on any off-street parking area.
      (9)   For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements for
off-street parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Planning
Commission considers is similar in type.
      (10)   When units or measurements determining the number of required
parking spaces result in the requirements of a fractional space, the fraction
shall require one parking space.
      (11)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces
required, the definition of “usable floor area” shall govern.
   (C)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces by type of use shall
be determined in accordance with the following schedule:
Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per Unit of Measure
                                                                                     Number of
                                                                                     Minimum
Use                                                                                  Parking Spaces
                                                                                     per Unit of
                                                                                     Measure
(1)   RESIDENTIAL
   (a)   Residential, One-Family and Two-Family                                Two for each
                                                                                     dwelling unit
   (b)   Residential, Multiple-Family:
      Efficiency unit                                                          Two for each
                                                                                     dwelling unit
      One bedroom unit                                                         Two for each
                                                                                     dwelling unit
      Two bedroom unit                                                         Two for each
                                                                                     dwelling unit
                                                                                     Two and one-
      Three or more bedroom unit                                               half for each
                                                                                     dwelling unit
      In addition to the above minimum parking requirements for 1, 2, and 3 or more bedroom units,
one-half space per unit shall be provided for visitor parking
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     two units, and
                                                                                     one for each
                                                                                     employee.
                                                                                     Should units
                                                                                     revert to
   (c)   Housing for the Elderly                                               general
                                                                                     occupancy,
                                                                                     then one and
                                                                                     one-half
                                                                                     spaces per
                                                                                     unit shall be
                                                                                     provided
                                                                                     Two for each
                                                                                     mobile home
                                                                                     plus one for
                                                                                     each employee
                                                                                     of the mobile
   (d)   Mobile Home Park                                                      home park plus
                                                                                     one for each
                                                                                     three mobile
                                                                                     home sites for
                                                                                     visitor
                                                                                     parking
(2)   INSTITUTIONAL
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     three seats or
   (a)   Churches or Temples                                                   six feet of
                                                                                     pews in the
                                                                                     main unit of
                                                                                     worship
   (b)   Hospitals                                                             One for each
                                                                                     bed
   (c)   Homes for the Aged and Convalescent Homes                             One for each
                                                                                     two beds
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     one teacher,
                                                                                     employee or
                                                                                     administrator,
   (d)   Elementary and Junior High Schools                                    in addition to
                                                                                     the
                                                                                     requirements
                                                                                     of the
                                                                                     auditorium
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     teacher,
                                                                                     employee or
                                                                                     administrator
                                                                                     and one for
   (e)   Senior High Schools                                                   each ten
                                                                                     students, in
                                                                                     addition to
                                                                                     the
                                                                                     requirements
                                                                                     of the
                                                                                     auditorium
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     three persons
                                                                                     allowed within
                                                                                     the maximum
                                                                                     occupancy load
   (f)   Private Clubs or Lodge Halls                                          as established
                                                                                     by local,
                                                                                     county or
                                                                                     state fire,
                                                                                     building or
                                                                                     health codes
                                                                                     One for each
   (g)   Private Golf Clubs, Tennis Clubs, or Other Similar Uses               two member
                                                                                     families or
                                                                                     individuals
                                                                                     Six for each
   (h)   Golf Courses Open to the General Public, Except Miniature or Par-threeone golf hole
Courses                                                                              and one for
                                                                                     each one
                                                                                     employee
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     five permitted
                                                                                     active
   (i)   Fraternity or Sorority                                                members, or
                                                                                     one for each
                                                                                     two beds,
                                                                                     whichever is
                                                                                     greater
                                                                                     One for each
     (j)   Stadium, Sports Arenas or Similar Place of Outdoor Assembly       three seats or
                                                                                     six feet of
                                                                                     benches
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     three seats
   (k)   Theaters and Auditoriums                                              plus one for
                                                                                     each two
                                                                                     employees
(3)   BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL
                                                                                     One for each
   (a)   Planned Commercial or Shopping Center located in a B District         100 square
                                                                                     feet of usable
                                                                                     floor area
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     one employee.
                                                                                     In addition,
                                                                                     reservoir
                                                                                     parking spaces
                                                                                     equal in
                                                                                     number to five
                                                                                     times the
                                                                                     maximum
                                                                                     capacity of
                                                                                     the auto wash
                                                                                     for
                                                                                     automobiles
                                                                                     awaiting
                                                                                     entrance to
                                                                                     the auto wash
                                                                                     shall be
                                                                                     provided.
                                                                                     Maximum
                                                                                     capacity of
   (b)   Auto Wash                                                             the auto wash
                                                                                     for the
                                                                                     purpose of
                                                                                     determining
                                                                                     the required
                                                                                     reservoir
                                                                                     parking shall
                                                                                     mean the
                                                                                     greatest
                                                                                     number
                                                                                     possible of
                                                                                     automobiles
                                                                                     undergoing
                                                                                     some phase of
                                                                                     washing at the
                                                                                     same time,
                                                                                     which shall be
                                                                                     determined by
                                                                                     dividing the
                                                                                     length in feet
                                                                                     in each wash
                                                                                     line by 20
                                                                                     Three spaces
                                                                                     for each of
                                                                                     the first two
                                                                                     beauty or
                                                                                     barber chairs
   (c)   Beauty Parlor or Barber Shop                                          and one and
                                                                                     one-half
                                                                                     spaces for
                                                                                     each
                                                                                     additional
                                                                                     chair
                                                                                     Five for each
   (d)   Bowling Alleys                                                        one bowling
                                                                                     lane
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     three persons
                                                                                     allowed within
                                                                                     the maximum
   (e)   Dance Halls, Pool or Billiard Parlors, Pinball Arcades and Similar Gamoccupancy load
Rooms, Roller or Skating Rinks, Exhibition Halls and Assembly Halls Without Fixed    as established
Seats                                                                                by local,
                                                                                     county or
                                                                                     state fire,
                                                                                     building or
                                                                                     health codes
                                                                                     One for each
   (f)   Establishments for Sale and Consumption on the Premises of Beverages, 100 square
or Refreshments                                                                      feet of usable
                                                                                     floor space
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     800 square
                                                                                     feet of usable
                                                                                     floor area.
                                                                                     (For floor
                                                                                     area used in
   (g)   Furniture and Appliance, Household Equipment Repair Shops, Showroom ofprocessing,
Plumber, Decorator, Electrician or Similar Trade, Shoe Repair and Other Similar Uses one additional
                                                                                     space shall be
                                                                                     provided for
                                                                                     each two
                                                                                     persons
                                                                                     employed
                                                                                     therein.)
                                                                                     Two for each
                                                                                     lubrication
   (h)   Automobile Service Stations                                           stall, rack or
                                                                                     pit; and one
                                                                                     for each
                                                                                     gasoline pump
   (i)   Laundromats and Coin-operated Dry Cleaners                            One for each
                                                                                     two machines
                                                                                     Three for each
   (j)   Miniature Par-Three Golf Courses                                      one hole plus
                                                                                     one for each
                                                                                     one employee
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     50 square feet
                                                                                     of assembly
   (k)   Mortuary Establishments                                               room usable
                                                                                     floor space,
                                                                                     parlors and
                                                                                     slumber rooms
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     one occupancy
   (l)   Motel, Hotel or Other Commercial Lodging Establishment                unit plus one
                                                                                     for each one
                                                                                     employee
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     200 square
                                                                                     feet of usable
                                                                                     floor space of
   (m)   Motor Vehicle Sales and Service Establishments                        sales room and
                                                                                     one for each
                                                                                     one auto
                                                                                     service stall
                                                                                     in the service
                                                                                     room
                                                                                     One for each
   (n)   Retail Stores Except as Otherwise Specified Herein                    150 square
                                                                                     feet of usable
                                                                                     floor space
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     25 square feet
   (o)   Drive-In Restaurants                                                  of floor area
                                                                                     plus one for
                                                                                     each employee
(4)   OFFICES
                                                                                     One for each
   (a)   Banks                                                                 100 square
                                                                                     feet of usable
                                                                                     floor space
                                                                                     One for each
   (b)   Business Offices or Professional Offices Except as Indicated in the   200 square
Following Item (c)                                                                   feet of usable
                                                                                     floor space
                                                                                     One for each
                                                                                     100 square
                                                                                     feet of usable
                                                                                     floor area in
                                                                                     waiting rooms,
   (c)   Professional Offices of Doctors, Dentists or Similar Professions      and one for
                                                                                     each examining
                                                                                     room, dental
                                                                                     chair or
                                                                                     similar use
                                                                                     area
(5)   INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                     Five plus one
                                                                                     for every one
                                                                                     and one-half
                                                                                     employees on
                                                                                     the largest
                                                                                     working shift,
                                                                                     or one for
                                                                                     every 550
                                                                                     square feet of
                                                                                     usable floor
                                                                                     space,
   (a)   Industrial or Research Establishments                                 whichever is
                                                                                     determined to
                                                                                     be greater.
                                                                                     Space on-site
                                                                                     shall also be
                                                                                     provided for
                                                                                     all
                                                                                     construction
                                                                                     workers during
                                                                                     periods of
                                                                                     plant
                                                                                     construction
                                                                                     Five plus one
                                                                                     for every one
                                                                                     employee in
                                                                                     the largest
                                                                                     working shift,
   (b)   Wholesale Establishments                                              or one for
                                                                                     every 1,700
                                                                                     square feet of
                                                                                     usable floor
                                                                                     space,
                                                                                     whichever is
                                                                                     greater
(6)   AGRICULTURAL TOURISM AND SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL USES
                                                                                     One space for
                                                                                     each 500
                                                                                     square feet of
                                                                                     retail area
                                                                                     and one space
                                                                                     for every
                                                                                     1,000 square
                                                                                     feet of
   (a)   For Agricultural Tourism and Seasonal Agriculturally Related Uses     outdoor
                                                                                     related
                                                                                     activities
                                                                                     such as
                                                                                     agricultural
                                                                                     mazes, petting
                                                                                     farms, outdoor
                                                                                     play equipment
                                                                                     and the like
   (b)   For uses permitted by right under the Agricultural District, parking facilities may be
located on a grass or gravel area for seasonal uses such as road side stands, u-pick operations and
agricultural mazes. All parking areas shall be defined by either gravel, cut lawn, sand or other
visible marking.
   (c)   For uses permitted by special land use permit, parking may be either gravel or paved as
determined by the Planning Commission, based on applicant estimates for seasonal parking and the
intensity of the use. Overflow parking areas may be required by the Planning Commission to
accommodate seasonal peak demand.
   (d)   All parking areas shall be located in such a manner to avoid traffic hazards associated
with entering and exiting the public roadway.
   (e)   Unpaved parking areas shall not be located within any required side or rear yard. Paved
parking areas must meet all design, landscape screening and setback requirements set forth in this
zoning chapter.
 
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 26, passed 6-10-2009) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.170 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE LAYOUT, STANDARDS, CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   Wherever the off-street parking requirements in §
153.169 above require the building of an off-street parking facility, such off-
street parking lot shall be laid out, constructed and maintained in accordance
with the following standards and regulations.
   (A)   No parking lot shall be constructed unless and until a permit
therefore is issued by the Building Inspector or Official. Applications for a
permit shall be submitted in such form as may be determined by the Building
Inspector or Official, and shall be accompanied with two sets of plans for the
development and construction of the parking lot showing that the provisions of
this section will be fully complied with.
   (B)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accord with the following minimum requirements:
 
                                                   Total Width Total Width of
Parking                                            of One Tier Two Tiers of
Pattern    Maneuvering Parking Space Parking Space of Spaces   Spaces Plus
(degrees)  Lane Width  Width         Length        Plus        Maneuvering
                                                   Maneuvering Lane
                                                   Lane
0 parallel 12 feet     8 feet        23 feet       20 feet     28 feet
parking
30 to 53   12 feet     8 feet        20 feet       32 feet     52 feet
                       6 inches
54 to 74   15 feet     8 feet        20 feet       36 feet     58 feet
                       6 inches                    6 inches
75 to 90   24 feet     9 feet        20 feet       44 feet     64 feet
 
   (C)   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering
lanes. Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of
clearly limited and defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles.
      (2)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for
other than single-family residential use shall not be across land zoned for
single-family residential use.
   (E)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
except that the 90 degree pattern may permit two-way movement.
   (F)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot located
in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be at least
25 feet distance from any adjacent property located in any single-family
residential district.
   (G)   (1)   The off-street parking area shall be provided with a continuous
and obscuring wall not less than four feet six inches in height, measured from
the surface of the parking area, on all sides where the next zoning district is
designated as a residential district. Variations from the requirement of a
masonry wall may be permitted by the Planning Commission in accordance with §
153.177.
      (2)   When a front yard setback is required, all land between said wall
and the front property line or street right-of-way line shall be kept free from
refuse and debris and shall be landscaped with deciduous shrubs, evergreen
material and ornamental trees. The ground area shall be planted and kept in
lawn. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition, neat and orderly in appearance.
   (H)   (1)   The entire parking area, including parking spaces and
maneuvering lanes, required under this section shall be provided with asphaltic
or concrete surfacing in accordance with specifications approved by the
Township Board. The parking area shall be surfaced within one year of the date
the permit is issued.
      (2)   Off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to dispose of all
surface water accumulated in the parking area in such a way as to preclude
drainage of water onto adjacent property or toward buildings, and plans shall
meet the approval of the Township Board.
   (I)   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
so installed as to be confined within and directed onto the parking area only.
   (J)   In all cases where a wall extends to any alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to an off-street parking area, it shall be permissible to
end the wall not more than ten feet from such alley line in order to permit a
wider means of access to the parking area.
   (K)   The Board of Appeals, after recommendation of the Planning Commission,
upon application by the property owner of the off-street parking area, may
modify the yard or wall requirements where, in unusual circumstances, no good
purpose would be served by compliance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.171 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof,
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for standing,
loading and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of
dedicated right-of-way.
   (B)   Such space shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   All spaces shall be provided as required in §§
153.150 and
153.151, Schedule of Regulations, noted after minimum rear yards, except as
hereinafter provided for I Districts.
      (2)   All spaces shall be laid out in the dimension of at least 10 x 50
feet, or 500 square feet in area, with clearance of at least 14 feet in height.
Loading dock approaches shall be provided with a pavement having an asphaltic
or Portland cement binder so as to provide a permanent, durable and dustless
surface. All spaces in I District shall be provided in the following ratio of
space to floor area:
 
Gross Floor Area Loading and Unloading Space Required in Terms of Square Feet
(In Square Feet) of Usable Floor Area
0 - 1,400        None
1,401 - 20,000   One space
20,001 - 100,000 One space plus one space for each 20,000 square feet in excess
                 of 20,001 square feet
100,001 and over Five spaces
 
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.172 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No use otherwise allowed shall be permitted within any district which does
not conform to the following standards of use, occupancy and operation, which
standards are hereby established as the minimum requirements to be maintained
within said area.
   (A)   Smoke, dust, dirt and fly ash. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to engage in any use or operation which causes the emission
of smoke, fumes, airborne solids and the like in excess of the maximum
allowable limit as regulated by all applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   Open storage. The open storage of any industrial or commercial
equipment, industrial or commercial vehicles and all industrial or commercial
materials including wastes, except new merchandise for sale and/or display,
shall be screened from public view, from a public street and from adjoining
properties by an enclosure consisting of an obscuring wall or obscuring fence
not less than the height of the equipment, vehicles and all materials to be
stored. Whenever such open storage is adjacent to a residential zone or mobile
home park in either a front, side or rear lot line relationship, whether
immediately abutting or across a right-of-way from such zone, there shall be
provided an obscuring wall or obscuring fence of at least six feet in height.
   (C)   Glare and radioactive materials. Glare from any process (such as or
similar to arc welding, or acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful
ultraviolet rays shall be performed in such a manner as not to be seen from any
point beyond the property line, and as not to create a public nuisance or
hazard along lot lines. Radioactive materials and wastes, and including
electro-magnetic radiation such as x-ray machine operation, shall not be
emitted to exceed quantities established as safe by the U.S. Bureau of
Standards, when measured at the property line.
   (D)   Fire and explosive hazards. The storage and handling of flammable
liquids, liquefied petroleum, gasses, and explosives shall comply with all
applicable state laws.
   (E)   Noise. Objectionable sounds, including those of an intermittent
nature, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (F)   Odors. Creation of offensive odors shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Wastes. No waste shall be discharged in the public sewer system or any
public or private storm drainage facilities which is dangerous to the public
health and safety.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.173 PLANT MATERIALS.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter a greenbelt or planting is required, it shall
be planted within six months from the date of the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy and shall thereafter be reasonably maintained with permanent plant
materials to provide a screen to abutting properties.
   (B)   All required greenbelts shall be at least ten feet in width and no
plant materials shall be located closer than four feet to the property line.
   (C)   Suitable materials equal in characteristics to the plant materials
listed with the spacing as required shall be provided.
      (1)   Plant material spacing.
         (a)   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than four feet from
the fence line or property line.
         (b)   Where plant materials are placed in two or more rows, plantings
shall be staggered in rows.
         (c)   Evergreen trees shall be planted not more than 30 feet on
centers.
         (d)   Narrow evergreens shall be planted not more than six feet on
centers.
         (e)   Deciduous trees shall be planted not more than 30 feet on
centers.
         (f)   Tree-like shrubs shall be planted not more than ten feet on
centers.
         (g)   Large deciduous shrubs shall be planted not more than four feet
on centers.
      (2)   Suggested plant materials.
 
EVERGREEN TREES
Douglas Fir
Fir                           MINIMUM SIZE
Hemlock                       Five Feet in Height
Juniper
Pine
Spruce
NARROW EVERGREENS
Blue Columnar Chinese Juniper
Column Hinoki Cypress
Columnar Giant Arborvitae     MINIMUM SIZE
Douglas Arborvitae            Three Feet in Height
Irish Yew
Pyramidal Red Cedar
Pyramidal White Pine
Swiss Stone Pine
TREE-LIKE SHRUBS
Dogwood
Flowering Crabs
Hawthorn
Hornbeam                      MINIMUM SIZE
Magnolia                      Four Feet in Height
Mountain Ash
Redbud
Rose of Sharon
Russian Olives
LARGE DECIDUOUS SHRUBS
Buckthorn
Cotoneaster
Evonymus
Forsythia
Hazelnuts                     MINIMUM SIZE
Honeysuckle                   Six Feet in Height
Lilac
Mock Orange
Ninebark
Privet
Sumac
Viburnum
LARGE DECIDUOUS TREES
Beech
Birch
Ginko
Hackberry
Hard Maples                   MINIMUM SIZE
Honeylocust                   Eight Feet in Height
Hop Hornbeam
Linden
Oaks
Planetree (Sycamore)
Sweet Gum
 
      (3)   Trees not permitted.
         (a)   Box Elder;
         (b)   Soft Maple (Red, Silver);
         (c)   Elms;
         (d)   Poplars;
         (e)   Willows;
         (f)   Horse Chestnut (Nut Bearing);
         (g)   Tree of Heaven; and
         (h)   Catalpa.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.174 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to protect and promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the township; to maintain and improve
the appearance of the township; to conserve community character; to prevent
traffic hazards; to provide safer conditions for pedestrians; and to promote
economic development by regulating the construction, alteration, repair,
maintenance, size, location, and number of signs in the community. These
regulations are further intended to provide reasonable identification for
businesses and other uses within the community, while protecting the First
Amendment right to Freedom of Speech.
   (B)   Sign definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AWNING. A retractable or fixed shelter constructed of non-rigid materials
on a supporting framework that projects from the exterior wall of a building.
      AWNING SIGN. A sign affixed flat against the surface of an awning.
      BANNER SIGN. A fabric, plastic, or other sign made of non-rigid material
without an enclosing structural framework.
      BILLBOARD. A sign regulated by the Highway Advertising Act, Public Act
106 of 1972.
      CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign located on a lot that is an active construction
site.
6. Directional Sign: A sign located in a manner that directs the message of the
sign specifically to persons who are navigating into or within the site itself.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported on the ground and not attached to a
building or wall.
      GOVERNMENT SIGN. A temporary or permanent sign erected by the township,
St. Clair County, or the state or federal government.
      MARQUEE. A permanent structure constructed of rigid materials that
projects from the exterior wall of a building.
      MARQUEE SIGN. A sign affixed flat against the surface of a marquee.
      MURAL. A design or representation painted or drawn on a wall which does
not meet the definition of “sign” in this section.
      PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently
attached to the ground, a structure, or a building.
      PREMISES. A lot as otherwise defined in this chapter.
      ROOF LINE. The top edge of a roof or parapet wall, whichever is higher,
but excluding any cupolas, chimneys, or other minor projections.
      SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. A temporary sign that is not designed to be
permanently affixed to the ground or a building, consisting of two faces
attached at the top and spreading out in an “A” frame triangular pattern
towards the ground.
      SEASONAL SIGN. A sign erected for a limited period of time during the
year while a seasonal retail operation is open to the public.
      SIGN. A device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics, symbols,
and/or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of conveying an
explicit message. Artistic or decorative features that do not contain a
specific message shall not be considered signs under this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-699.jpg]
 
      SIGN AREA. The allowable area for signs shall be measured by calculating
the square footage of the sign face and any frame of other material or color
forming an integral part of the display, or used to differentiate it from the
background against which it is placed as measured by enclosing the most
protruding points or edges of a sign within a parallelogram or rectangle. Back-
to-back sign faces shall be counted as one sign face for the purposes of
measurement.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign not constructed or intended for long-term use.
      WALL SIGN. A sign painted or attached directly to and parallel to the
exterior wall of a building extending no greater than 12 inches from the
exterior face of the wall to which it is attached.
      WINDOW SIGN. A sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed
from the outside.
   (C)   Sign permits.
      (1)   Permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter, or
structurally change a sign or other advertising structure, unless the type of
sign is specifically listed in division (D), without first obtaining a permit
in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. A permit shall require
payment of a fee, which shall be established by the Township Board.
      (2)   Applications. Application for a sign permit shall be made upon
forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The following information shall be
required:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant.
         (b)   Location of the building, structure, or lot on which the sign is
to be attached or erected.
         (c)   Position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings,
structures, and property lines.
         (d)   Plans showing the dimension, lettering style, color, materials,
method of construction, method of illumination, and method of attachment to the
building or in the ground.
         (e)   Written consent of the owner and/or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is to be erected.
         (f)   Other information required by the Zoning Administrator to make a
determination that the sign is in compliance with applicable laws and
regulations.
      (3)   Review of application.
         (a)   Planning Commission review. Sign permit applications in
conjunction with the proposed construction of a new building or addition to an
existing building shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission as part of the
required site plan review. Proposed signs must be shown on the site plan.
         (b)   Zoning Administrator review. The Zoning Administrator shall
review the sign permit application for any sign proposed on a site or existing
building where no other new construction is proposed.
      (4)   Removal agreement or bond. The Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator may require a performance guarantee to guarantee the future
removal of a sign.
      (5)   Permit issuance. Following a review of a sign application by the
Planning Commission or the Zoning Administrator as appropriate, the Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to issue a sign permit.
      (6)   Exceptions. A new permit shall not be required for changing the
message of a previously-approved sign without altering the size or shape of the
sign and without adding electronic capability. Permits shall also not be
required for the cleaning or maintenance of a sign, nor for the types of signs
listed in division (D).
   (D)   Signs not requiring a permit. The signs listed below may be erected
without a permit, provided that the standards listed are met. In order to erect
a sign listed below that does not comply with the listed standards, a property
owner must obtain a waiver from the Planning Commission (see division (H)) and
a sign permit (see division (C)).
      (1)   Signs under two square feet, provided that:
         (a)   Not more than two be located on any premises in an SF or R-
1 District.
         (b)   Not more than five be located on any premises in an AG, B-1, B-
2, LI, RM, or RC District.
      (2)   Construction signs, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   There shall be only one such sign per development project;
         (b)   The maximum height shall be six feet.
         (c)   The maximum area shall be 16 square feet.
         (d)   The sign shall be removed within 14 days of the date an
occupancy permit is issued.
      (3)   Flags, up to three per premises. Additional flags must receive a
permit to be installed and will count towards the maximum square footage of
allowable signage on a premises.
      (4)   Temporary signage in the AG, SF, R-1, RM and RC Districts, subject
to the following requirements:
         (a)   In SF and R-1, no more than two signs are permitted per public
street frontage of the premises. In AG, RM, and RC, no more than five signs are
permitted per public street frontage of the premises, and the signs must be set
back at least ten feet from each other.
         (b)   The maximum height of each sign shall be eight feet.
         (c)   The maximum area of each sign shall be 32 square feet
         (d)   Signage must be kept in good condition, in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   Signage must be located on private property, and not within the
public right-of-way.
         (f)   Signage may not be placed on any property without the consent of
the property owner.
         (g)   Signage in place for more than six months must meet the
standards for a permitted permanent sign and must obtain a permit.
      (5)   Premises that contain land, buildings, or space that is being
actively marketed for sale or lease may contain up to 16 square feet of
additional signage beyond that permitted in this section. No permit shall be
required to install this signage. The signage must be removed when the land,
building, or space has been sold or leased.
      (6)   Regulatory, directional and street signs erected by a public agency
in compliance with Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual.
      (7)   Signs located on motor vehicles or trailers bearing current license
plates which are traveling or lawfully parked upon public highways, or lawfully
parked upon any other premises where the primary purpose of such parking is not
the display of any sign.
      (8)   Murals: However, an artist wishing to paint a mural must inform the
township and show the design to the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator may determine that a mural meets the definition of “sign” and is
therefore required to obtain a sign permit. The Zoning Administrator may also
refer a proposed mural to the Planning Commission for design approval based on
the character of the surrounding area.
   (E)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited in all zoning
districts:
      (1)   Signs which obstruct free access or egress from any building.
      (2)   Signs which in any way simulate or could be confused with the
lighting of emergency vehicles or traffic signals.
      (3)   Signs which obstruct or impair the vision of motorists or non-
motorized travelers at any intersection, driveway, within a parking lot or
loading area.
      (4)   Signs having moving members, parts, spinners, or using high
intensity or flashing lights.
      (5)   Non-regulatory signs placed in any public right-of-way, including
those attached to a utility pole or affixed to a tree in a pubic right-of-way,
except awning and projecting signs that are attached to buildings and project
over the sidewalk.
      (6)   Signs that project above the roof line.
      (7)   Any sign erected without the consent of the owner of the property.
      (8)   Billboards, unless explicitly permitted by MDOT.
      (9)   Signs that make noises of any type.
      (10)   Signs that block the view of other signs in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Temporary and portable signs. The following types of temporary and
portable signs shall be permitted in the Township. Property owners must receive
a permit as described in division (C) prior to the erection of any temporary
sign, and must follow all applicable requirements as described below.
      (1)   Sandwich board signs. Portable sandwich board signs shall be
permitted in the B-1 and B-2 Districts under the following circumstances:
         (a)   There shall be only one sign at each customer entrance.
         (b)   Each sign shall be placed outside only during the hours when the
business is open to the general public and shall be stored indoors at all other
times. Signs must also be kept indoors if more than two inches of snow are
covering the sidewalk in front of the business.
         (c)   Each sign shall be placed in a manner which provides five feet
of free passage for pedestrians, and is safe for, and does not interfere with,
normal pedestrian or automobile traffic.
         (d)   Each sign shall not exceed an area of twelve square feet, an
overall height of 48 inches, and an overall width of 36 inches.
         (e)   All sign frames shall be constructed of a weatherproof material
and shall be kept in good repair.
      (2)   Temporary signs. Temporary banners, temporary freestanding signs,
and non-permanently affixed wall signs, shall be permitted in the B-1, B-2, RC,
and LI Districts under the following circumstances:
         (a)   Signs may not be displayed for more than 30 consecutive days.
         (b)   Each sign shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
      (3)   Temporary window signs. Temporary window signs must meet the same
standards as window signs designed to be permanent (see division (G)(2(e)).
      (4)   Seasonal signs. Seasonal freestanding signs shall be permitted on
the premises of an approved seasonal retail business in any zoning district
except R-1, including but not limited to agricultural tourism businesses, under
the following circumstances:
         (a)   No more than two signs per premises.
         (b)   Signs may not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (c)   Signs must meet all applicable regulations for freestanding
signs in division (G)(2)(c)(1 - 10).
         (d)   Signs may be in place from 30 days before the beginning of
operation of the seasonal business until the seasonal business closes for the
year.
   (G)   Permitted signs by zoning district.
      (1)   Signs permitted in AG, SF, R-1, and RM Districts.
         (a)   Non-residential uses. Non-residential uses in AG, SF, R-1, or RM
Districts, such as churches, schools, agricultural tourism businesses, and
others shall be subject to the standards for the B-1, B-2, RC, and LI
Districts, in division (G)(2).
         (b)   Illumination and electronic messaging.
            1.   Electronic message signs are prohibited on premises that
contain residential or agricultural uses.
            2.   Interior and exterior illumination are permitted for non-
residential uses in the AG, SF, R-1, and RM Districts. Light levels from
illuminated or electronic signs must reach 0.0 footcandles at all property
lines.
            3.   Signs on premises used for residential purposes may not be
illuminated.
         (c)   Wall signs. Wall signs are only permitted in AG, SF, R-1, and RM
Districts under the following circumstances:
            1.   Signs under two square feet in area as listed in division (D)
(1). These signs shall not require a permit.
            2.   One sign per lot, not to exceed four square feet, on a lot
containing an approved home occupation. A lot containing a home occupation may
have a wall sign or a freestanding sign, but not both.
            3.   Signs on the exterior of buildings with more than two
residential units, under the following circumstances:
               a.   Maximum of one wall sign per frontage on a public road.
               b.   Maximum one square foot of signage for every linear foot of
building frontage, up to 50 square feet.
               c.   The width of any wall sign may not exceed 90% of the width
of the facade it is attached to.
               d.   Internal illumination is prohibited. External illumination
is permitted.
         (d)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs are only permitted in AG,
SF, R-1, and RM Districts under the following circumstances:
            1.   One sign per vehicle entrance of residential developments such
as subdivisions, apartment complexes, condominium communities, senior housing
complexes, mobile home parks and similar uses, subject to the following
standards:
               a.   Has a maximum height of six feet, except if it is
integrally designed as part of an ornamental wall and the wall meets all
applicable standards of this section.
               b.   Does not exceed 24 square feet in area.
               c.   The sign may be illuminated, but light levels from the sign
must reach 0.0 footcandles at all property lines abutting a lot used for
residential purposes.
               d.   All signs must have at least two legs or a continuous base
at least 75% of the width of the sign. Pole signs are prohibited.
            2.   One sign per lot, not to exceed 16 square feet, on a lot
containing an approved home occupation. A lot containing a home occupation may
have a wall sign or a freestanding sign, but not both.
            3.   One sign per lot used for agriculture, not to exceed one
square foot for each ten feet of road frontage, up to 32 square feet.
            4.   All freestanding signs must be set back at least four feet
from all lot lines.
            5.   All freestanding signs shall have a maximum height of eight
feet.
            6.   All freestanding signs must allow clear corner vision for all
street intersections and driveway entrances. Freestanding signs may not be
located within a triangle formed by two points, each ten feet away from the
intersection, and the line connecting them, as displayed below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-697.jpg]
 
            7.   All signs not specifically listed in this section are
prohibited in AG, SF, R-1, and RM Districts.
      (2)   Signs permitted in the B-1, B-2, RC, and LI Districts.
         (a)   Wall signs. Wall signs in the B-1, B-2, RC, and LI Districts are
subject to the following standards:
            1.   Signs permitted per linear foot; businesses with a storefront.
Each business with a storefront is permitted one square foot of wall signage
for every linear foot of building frontage, up to 100 square feet.
               a.   Where multiple businesses share one building or lot, the
building frontage of each business shall be calculated separately based on the
width of the individual storefronts.
               b.   Where a business has storefronts on multiple frontages, the
permitted wall signage shall be calculated separately for each frontage.
            2.   Signs per linear foot; commercial or industrial buildings.
Commercial or industrial buildings with no storefronts shall be permitted one
square foot of signage for each linear foot of building frontage, up to 100
square feet. This signage may include the name of the building or the names of
tenants. Signage must be divided equitably among the tenants. Sign permits for
buildings of this type must be requested by the owner of the building, not
individual tenants. All tenants must approve the design of the signage, and
this approval must be submitted to the township prior to the issuance of a sign
permit.
            3.   Width. The width of any wall sign may not exceed 90% of the
width of the facade it is attached to.
            4.   Building facades; where permitted. Wall signs may be located
on any building facade that faces a public road or alley, or a public or
private parking lot.
            5.   Number permitted. There shall be no limit on the number of
wall signs permitted on a premises, provided that the relevant square footage
standards are met.
            6.   Illumination. Wall signs in the B-1, B-2, RC, and LI Districts
may be internally or externally illuminated.
         (b)   Awning/marquee signs. An awning or marquee sign may be used in
place of a wall sign for any ground-floor business, provided that the following
standards are met.
            1.    The awning shall not extend more than six feet over the
public right-of-way.
            2.   The awning shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight
feet.
            3.    Signage may not exceed 70% of the face area of the awning, or
90% of the face of a marquee.
            4.   Awnings may be externally illuminated, but back-lit or
internally illuminated awnings are prohibited. Awnings may not contain
electronic messaging.
         (c)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs in the B-1, B-2, RC, and
LI Districts are subject to the following standards:
            1.   Number permitted. Only one freestanding sign is permitted per
premises, regardless of the number of businesses on the premises.
            2.   Height. Maximum height of eight feet.
            3.   Area. Maximum area 40 square feet.
            4.   Two legs and base required; pole signs. All signs must have at
least two legs or a continuous base at least 75% of the width of the sign. Pole
signs are prohibited.
            5.   Illumination. Freestanding signs in the B-1, B-2, RC, and LI
Districts may be internally or externally illuminated.
            6.   Electronic messaging. Freestanding signs in the B-1, B-2, RC,
and LI Districts may include electronic messaging, provided that the following
standards are met.
               a.   Electronic messaging is only permitted on freestanding
signage.
               b.   The maximum area of electronic messaging shall be half the
total area of the sign in which the electronic message board is placed.
               c.   Copy change shall be no more frequent than once per 15
seconds.
               d.   Glare shall be reduced and/or minimized in such a manner as
to maintain an appropriate level of contrast during the day. To reduce driver
distraction at night and light trespass into residential areas, an automatic
dimmer shall be installed to control brightness. The maximum brightness of the
sign shall not exceed 10,000 NITs. At night, the sign shall be set to no more
than 10% of its maximum brightness.
               e.   Motion, animation and video: Video display, animation,
scrolling text, flashing, whirling, fading, dissolving transitions, or any
other type of motion are prohibited.
               f.   When text is displayed, the background behind the text must
be a solid color, for the purpose of ensuring that the text is readable. Images
are permitted, provided that no text is displayed in front of them.
            7.   Freestanding signs, setback. All freestanding signs must be
set back at least four feet from all lot lines.
            8.   Freestanding signs, corner vision. All freestanding signs must
allow clear corner vision for all street intersections and driveway entrances.
Freestanding signs may not be located within a triangle formed by two points,
each ten feet away from the intersection, and the line connecting them, as
displayed below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-701.jpg]
 
            9.   Freestanding signs, multiple tenants. Freestanding signs for
premises with multiple tenants must be proposed by the owner of the premises,
not individual tenants. All tenants on the premises must approve the design of
the sign, and that approval must be presented to the township prior to the
issuance of a sign permit.
            10.   Directional signs. No more than one directional sign shall be
permitted per approved driveway, with a maximum sign area of four square feet
per sign, and a maximum height of four feet. Directional signs may be
internally or externally illuminated, but may not contain electronic messaging.
         (d)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are permitted in the B-1, B-
2, RC, and LI Districts under the following circumstances:
            1.   Maximum sign area of 16 square feet.
            2.   The faces of the sign must be parallel to each other.
            3.   The bottom of the sign must be at least six feet from grade.
         (e)   Window signs. Window signs are permitted in the B-1, B-2, RC,
and LI Districts, subject to the following standards:
            1.   Signage may not cover more than 25% of any window.
            2.   Window signs may be internally illuminated, but may not
contain any electronic messaging, flashing, or appearance of movement.
   (H)   Modifications/waivers. The Planning Commission, after a public hearing
that meets the requirements of the State of Michigan and this chapter, shall
have the ability to waive or modify any of the above standards, provided that
the following criteria are met. A waiver granted under this section shall apply
for the lifespan of the sign in question, but shall not be transferable to any
other sign or premises.
      (1)   The applicant provides all requested information and pays all
applicable application and review fees, to be determined by the Township Board.
      (2)   The proposed sign does not endanger the public health, safety, and
welfare by virtue of being distracting to drivers, obscuring vision, being
unnecessarily bright, being designed or constructed poorly, or in any other
way.
      (3)   The design of the sign is consistent with character of the
surrounding area.
      (4)   The sign does not block the view of other nearby signs to the
extent that it would harm the ability of neighboring businesses to operate.
      (5)   The sign will not be a nuisance to any residential uses.
      (6)   A sign designed to meet the standards of this chapter would not
adequately serve the purpose desired by the applicant.
   (I)   Nonconformities. A non-conforming sign may be continued and shall be
maintained in good condition as described elsewhere in this section, except
that a non-conforming sign shall not be structurally altered or repaired so as
to prolong its life or as to change its shape, size, type or design unless such
change shall make the sign conforming; nor shall a non-conforming sign be
replaced by another non-conforming sign.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 26, passed 6-10-2009; Ord. passed 12-9-2015)
Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.175 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   All lighting for parking areas or for the external illumination of buildings
and uses shall be directed from and shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts and shall also be so arranged as to not adversely affect driver
visibility on adjacent thoroughfares.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.176 CORNER CLEARANCE.
   In all districts, no fence, wall shrubbery, sign or other obstruction to
vision above a height of 30 inches from the established street grades shall be
permitted within the triangular area formed by the intersection of any street
right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between said right-of-way lines at
a distance along each line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.177 WALLS.
   (A)   Those districts and uses listed below shall be required by the
Township Board upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission to construct
and maintain on those sides abutting or adjacent to a residential district as
specified below one or a combination of the following:
      (1)   An obscuring masonry wall;
      (2)   An obscuring fence;
      (3)   Fence together with a landscaped greenbelt;
      (4)   An obscuring landscaped greenbelt; and/or
      (5)   Fencing.
 
USES                                     MINIMUM DIMENSION REQUIREMENTS
B-1, B-2 and RM Districts                Fences: four feet six inches high
I-1 and I-2 Districts                    Obscuring fences: four feet six inches
                                         high
Off-street parking areas                 Walls: four feet six inches high
Utility buildings, stations and/or
substations, except that in cases where   
all equipment is contained within a      Fence and greenbelt: four feet six
building or structure constructed so as  inches high and ten feet wide
to be similar in appearance to the        
residential building in the surrounding  Landscaped greenbelt: four feet six
area, the Board of Appeals may waive the inches high and ten feet wide
wall requirements
 
   (B)   Required walls shall be located on the lot line except where
underground utilities interfere and except in instances where this chapter
requires conformance with front yard setback lines in abutting Residential
Districts. Required walls may, upon approval of the Board of Appeals, be
located on the opposite side of an alley right-of-way from a nonresidential
zone that abuts a residential zone when mutually agreeable to affected property
owners. The continuity of the required wall on a given block will be a major
consideration of the Board of Appeals in reviewing such request.
   (C)   (1)   Such walls and screening barrier shall have no openings for
vehicular traffic or other purposes, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter and except such openings as may be approved by the Building Inspector.
All walls herein required shall be constructed of materials approved by the
Building Inspector to be durable, weather resistant, rust proof and easily
maintained.
      (2)   Masonry walls shall be erected on a concrete foundation which shall
have a minimum depth of 42 inches below a grade approved by the Building
Inspector and shall not be less than four inches wider than the wall to be
erected.
   (D)   The Board of Appeals may waive or modify the foregoing requirements
where cause can be shown that no good purpose would be served, provided that in
no instance shall a required wall be permitted to be less than four feet six
inches in height.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.178 USE RESTRICTION.
   No portion of a lot or parcel once used in complying with the provisions of
this chapter for yards, lot area per family, density as for a development in
the Multiple-Family District, or percentage of lot occupancy, in connection
with an existing or proposed building or structure, shall again be used as part
of the lot or parcel required in connection with any other building or
structure existing or intended to exist at the same time.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.179 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE ON A LOT.
   In the AG, SF and R-1 Districts, there shall not be more than one principal
residential dwelling on a recorded lot or parcel. In these districts, every
principal residential dwelling shall be in conformance with this chapter and
Chapter 151. In all other districts the number, location and size of principal
structures shall be in conformance with §§
153.150 and
153.151, Schedule of District Regulations, and §
153.180, Site Plan Review.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.180 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Developments, uses or activities requiring submittal of a site plan. A
site plan shall be submitted to the township in accordance with the procedures
in this section for any of the following activities, uses or developments
except single-family and two-family dwellings constructed on a single lot or
parcel:
      (1)   All new construction, structural alteration or substantial change
in use, for all principal permitted uses in B-1, B-2, I-1 and I-2 Districts;
      (2)   All site condominium developments in any district;
      (3)   All special land uses in any district;
      (4)   Any use that requires a new, modified or expanded parking lot;
      (5)   All multiple-family residential developments and mobile home parks;
      (6)   The improvement, expansion, extension or abandonment of any public
or private overhead or underground utility or utility lines or easement;
      (7)   All public buildings, structures and parks; and
      (8)   Private roads, in accordance with §§
91.01 through
91.06.
   (B)   Site plan review process. Site plans shall be reviewed in conformance
with the following process.
      (1)   Applicant applies to Township Clerk for pre-application conference
with township planning consultant, to discuss the proposed site plan, review
procedures, design elements and ordinance requirements. (Optional, but strongly
recommended).
      (2)   Applicant initiates site plan review process by submitting the
following information to the Township Clerk:
         (a)   Twelve copies of the completed site plan application form. Note:
Incomplete applications, including insufficient plans, will not be processed
until required information is submitted;
         (b)   Twelve copies of the site plan. A site plan submitted to the
township for preliminary site plan review must contain all of the information
set forth in division (C) below;
         (c)   Twelve copies of the “Hazardous Substance Reporting Form” and
“Environmental Permits Checklist” (provided by township); and
         (d)   Payment of all applicable fees.
      (3)   Township Clerk, or designee, distributes complete application and
site plan to Planning Commission, engineering consultant and planning
consultant for their review. The Planning Commission may require review by
other agencies to ensure compliance with applicable standards and requirements.
      (4)   When the completed application and site plan has been reviewed by
the planning and engineering consultants, the application will be placed on the
agenda of a meeting of the Planning Commission. The applicant will be notified
of the date, time and place of the meeting at which the Planning Commission
will consider the application; (NOTE: The applicant or a representative should
attend all meetings at which their development is scheduled for discussion or
action. Failure to appear at the meeting may cause the item to be tabled to the
next meeting. The Planning Commission may take action on a scheduled agenda
item regardless of the attendance of the applicant or a representative.)
      (5)   The Planning Commission conducts preliminary site plan review to
determine compliance with applicable ordinance requirements. The Planning
Commission will consider all review letters and reports from the planning and
engineering consultants and, where necessary, other agencies, together with
such information as the applicant may present concerning the application.
      (6)   Upon determination by the Planning Commission that a preliminary
site plan is in compliance with the zoning ordinance, as amended, and other
applicable standards and requirements, the applicant may then proceed to the
final site plan review process. Where a preliminary site plan is in compliance
except for minor required revisions, or if extensive revisions to the
preliminary site plan are necessary to meet applicable standards and
requirements, the required changes shall be stated in writing and the applicant
shall revise the site plan and resubmit the site plan for final site plan
review.
      (7)   The applicant initiates final site plan review by submitting the
following information to the Township Clerk.
         (a)   Twelve copies of the site plan revised to address all
preliminary plan review comments.
         (b)   Submission of any additional required information to address
preliminary site plan review comments.
      (8)   After submission of the above plans and information, and completion
of review and recommendation by the township planning and engineering
consultants (if required), and other agencies, the application will be placed
on the agenda of a meeting of the Planning Commission to consider final site
plan approval. The applicant shall be notified of the date, time and place of
the meeting.
      (9)   The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the final site plan after the Planning Commission has received the review
and recommendation of the township’s consultants and other reviewing agencies,
together with information the applicant may present concerning the application.
      (10)   Upon approval of the final site plan by the Planning Commission,
such approval shall be indicated on the plan.
      (11)   If revisions to the final site plan are necessary to meet
conditions of approval, ordinance requirements or standards, the final site
plan shall be revised by the applicant and resubmitted to the Township Clerk
for verification of compliance with necessary plan revisions. The Township
Clerk may request assistance in verifying compliance with required plan
revisions from the Planning Commission, township consultants or other
applicable agencies.
      (12)   All denials, along with the reasons for denial, shall be indicated
in writing. If the applicant desires to prepare an alternative plan, the same
procedure as outlined above beginning with submittal of final site plans for
Planning Commission review shall be followed.
      (13)   When all conditions of approval are met by the applicant the
Township Planning Commission Chair shall stamp the final site plans “APPROVED”
and shall transmit copies in accordance with the following:
 
Copy of Approved Plan Sent To Number of Copies of Approved Plan
Applicant                     1
Planning Commission Chair     1
Township Clerk                2
 
      (14)   Applicant applies for building permits.
   (C)   Submission requirements.
      (1)   Site plan application form contents.
         (a)   Applicant’s name, address and phone number;
         (b)   Name of proposed development;
         (c)   Common description of property and complete legal description;
         (d)   Gross and net acreage;
         (e)   Existing zoning of subject property and adjacent properties;
         (f)   Detailed description of the proposed use of the land;
         (g)   Name, address and phone number of:
            1.   Firm(s) or individual(s) who prepared site plan(s); and
            2.   Legal owner(s) of property.
         (h)   Signature of applicant and legal owner of property.
      (2)   Preliminary site plan submission/data requirements. The following
information shall be detailed on the preliminary site plan:
         (a)   Name of development and title block;
         (b)   Location map showing site location, major roads and railroads;
         (c)   The site plan shall be drawn to scale not less than one inch
equals 50 feet;
         (d)   Date, north arrow, and scale;
         (e)   Property identification number(s) and the dimensions of all lot
and property lines, showing the relationship of the subject property to
abutting properties;
         (f)   Location of all existing and proposed structures and uses on the
subject property;
         (g)   Required and proposed setback lines and distances between
existing and proposed structures on the subject property;
         (h)   All existing and proposed aisles, drives, roads, parking areas
and number of parking spaces and location of loading areas on the subject
property;
         (i)   All existing and proposed roadways, structures, drives, parking
areas and pedestrian paths within 200 feet of the subject property;
         (j)   Location and height of all walls, fences and landscaping;
         (k)   Location and widths of all abutting streets, existing and
proposed rights-of-way, easements and pavement;
         (l)   Types of existing and proposed surfacing of all roads, such as
asphalt or concrete paving;
         (m)   Types of facing materials to be used on structures;
         (n)   Elevations (front, sides and rear views) of all sides of the
building(s);
         (o)   A floor plan drawing showing the specific use areas of all
existing and proposed buildings;
         (p)   Seal of registered architect, landscape architect, land surveyor
or civil engineer who prepared the plan;
          (q)   Density calculations (for multiple-family projects);
         (r)   Landscape plan showing species, spacing and size of each tree
and plant material and ground cover;
         (s)   Designation of units by type of buildings;
         (t)   Interior walks and pedestrian or bicycle paths within rights-of-
way;
         (u)   Exterior lighting locations, type of fixtures and methods of
shielding from projecting onto adjoining properties;
         (v)   Trash receptacle and transformer locations and method of
screening;
         (w)   Drive or street approaches including acceleration, deceleration
and passing lanes where appropriate;
         (x)   All utilities located on or serving the site, including water
lines/wells and septic sanitary sewer lines;
         (y)   Designation of fire lanes;
         (z)   Location and boundaries of wetlands, 100-year floodplains,
lakes, streams, rivers, detention basins, drainageways or other bodies of
water, with water elevation levels indicated;
         (aa)   Soil types and characteristics using the U.S. Soil Conservation
Service “Soil Survey of St; Clair County, Michigan” or more detailed surveys if
available;
         (bb)   Location, size and types of all proposed signs;
         (cc)   Preliminary storm system layout and flow arrows demonstrating
that storm flow connections and disposal methods are feasible;
         (dd)   Typical existing and proposed cross-sections for streets,
roads, alleys, parking lots, and the like as applicable, including right-of-
way;
         (ee)   Existing and proposed ground contours at intervals of two feet,
or spot elevations sufficient to review the proposed grading and drainage plan,
as determined by the township’s consulting engineer;
         (ff)   Location of all tree stands and measures to be taken to protect
existing on-site trees not proposed for removal as part of the development; and
         (gg)   Such other reasonable and relevant information as may be
required by the township to assist in the review of the proposed development.
      (3)   Final site plan submission/data requirements. In addition to the
preliminary site plan data specified above, the following minimum information
must be submitted for final site plan review and approval.
         (a)   Site engineering plans prepared by a registered civil engineer.
Such plans shall be submitted for the township engineering consultant’s review
and recommendation prior to Planning Commission consideration of final site
plan approval.
         (b)   Plans shall include the following.
            1.   A proposed grading and drainage plan. The plan shall show
proposed finished floor elevations, finished grades at structures, proposed
stormwater collection system, storm outlet(s), ultimate downstream outlet and,
when required, retention/detention basin design calculations. Any areas of
filled or reclaimed land shall be identified and all development shall detain
stormwater so that the runoff from the property does not negatively impact upon
adjacent properties or public and private rights-of-way. Compliance with
engineering standards shall be determined by the township engineering
consultant. The Planning Commission shall require compliance with engineering
standards, subject to the township consulting engineer’s final approval, as a
condition of final site plan approval.
            2.   All utilities located on or serving the site, including sizes
of water and sewer lines, wells, proposed hydrants and proposed method of fire
suppression where applicable. Proposed sanitary leads, proposed sanitary sewers
or on-site disposal systems must also be shown, as applicable.
            3.   Proposed streets and drives showing types of surfacing,
whether public or private and grade elevations.
            4.   Modifications to the site plan demonstrating compliance with
all preliminary site plan review conditions of approval.
   (D)   Site plan review criteria. In reviewing site plans, the Planning
Commission shall consider and require compliance with the following.
      (1)   All application and site plan review submittal criteria have been
met.
      (2)   The final site plan is in full conformance with all applicable
zoning ordinance requirements.
      (3)   The location of development features, including principal and
accessory buildings, open spaces, parking areas, driveways and sidewalks
minimize possible adverse effects on adjacent properties and promote pedestrian
and vehicular traffic safety.
      (4)   On-site circulation of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic will
achieve both safety and convenience of persons and vehicles using the site.
      (5)   Landscaping, earth berms, fencing, signs and obscuring walls are of
such a design and location that the proposed development is aesthetically
pleasing and is harmonious with nearby existing or proposed developments.
      (6)   Utility service, including proposed water, sanitary sewer/septic
and stormwater runoff systems are sufficient to fulfill the projected needs of
the development and the recommendation of the township consulting engineer.
Approval by a state or county department having jurisdiction, such as the
Department of Health, Drain Commission or Road Commission, may also be a
prerequisite to approval.
      (7)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the township
may require as a condition of final site plan approval, landscaping, berming,
fencing, construction of walls, marginal access drives or other appurtenances
as necessary or desirable to promote the health, safety and welfare of the
community, to provide adequate protection to surrounding properties, to
preserve and promote the character of the district and the intent of this
chapter and to achieve a lasting and desirable improvement to the community.
      (8)   For developments which include a private road, demonstrated
conformance with §§
91.01 through
91.06 is required.
   (E)   Site plan review standards for groundwater protection. The following
provisions shall apply to all uses and facilities which require site plan
review under the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Definition.  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND POLLUTING MATERIALS are
defined as a chemical or other material which is or may be injurious to the
public health, safety or welfare or the environment.
      (2)   Site plan review information requirements.
         (a)   The applicant for site plan review shall complete and submit the
Hazardous Substances Reporting Form for Site Plan Review and the Environmental
Permits Checklist at the time of application for site plan review (forms
provided by township).
         (b)   The township may require a listing of the type and quantity of
all hazardous substances and polluting materials which will be used, generated,
produced or stored on the site.
         (c)   The site plan shall detail the location of the following:
            1.   Public or private wells on-site and on adjacent sites;
            2.   Septic systems and other wastewater treatment systems,
including the location of all sub-components of the system;
            3.   Interior and exterior areas to be used for the storage, use,
loading, recycling, production or disposal of any hazardous substances and
polluting materials;
            4.   Underground storage tanks (note material to be stored);
            5.   Above-ground storage tanks (note material to be stored);
            6.   Exterior and interior drains, dry wells, catch basins,
retention/detention areas, sumps and other facilities designed or intended to
collect, store or transport stormwater or wastewater. The point of discharge
for all drains and pipes shall be specified on the site plan; and
            7.   Areas on the site which are known or suspected to be
contaminated, along with a report on the status of clean-up efforts, if
applicable.
      (3)   Groundwater protection standards.
         (a)   General.
            1.   The project shall be designed to protect the natural
environment, including lakes, ponds, streams, wetlands, floodplains and
groundwater, and to ensure the absence of an impairment, pollution and/or
destruction of the air, water or other natural resources.
            2.   Stormwater management and drainage facilities shall be
designed to retain the natural retention and storage capacity of any wetland,
water body, or watercourse, and shall not increase flooding or the potential
for pollution of surface water or groundwater, on-site or off-site.
            3.   Floor drains shall be connected to a public sewer system, an
on-site holding tank without an outlet, or a system authorized by a state
groundwater discharge permit.
            4.   Sites shall be designed to prevent spills and discharges of
hazardous substances and polluting materials to the air, surface of the ground,
groundwater or surface water.
            5.   State and federal agency requirements for storage, spill
prevention, recordkeeping, emergency response, transport and disposal of
hazardous substances and polluting materials shall be met. No discharges to
groundwater, whether direct or indirect, shall be allowed without required
permits and approvals.
            6.   In determining compliance with the standards in this chapter,
the township may utilize appropriate and applicable reference standards
regarding best management practices for groundwater protection.
         (b)   Above-ground storage and use areas for hazardous substances and
polluting materials.
            1.   Secondary containment of hazardous substances and polluting
materials shall be provided. Secondary containment shall be sufficient to store
the substance for the maximum anticipated period of time necessary for the
recovery of any released substance.
            2.   Outdoor storage of hazardous substances and polluting
materials shall be prohibited except in product-tight containers which are
protected from weather, leakage and vandalism.
            3.   Secondary containment structures shall not have floor drains
or other outlets, except as necessary for connection to pumping trucks for
removal of spilled product.
            4.   Areas and facilities for loading, handling, production, use or
disposal of hazardous substances and polluting materials shall be designed and
constructed to prevent discharge or run-off to floor drains, rivers, lakes,
ponds, wetlands, groundwater or soils.
         (c)   Underground storage tanks for the storage of hazardous
substances and polluting materials.
            1.   Existing and proposed underground storage tanks shall be
registered with the authorized state agency in accordance with applicable state
and federal law.
            2.   Installation, operation, maintenance, closure and removal of
underground storage tanks shall be in accordance with requirements of the
authorized state agencies. Leak detection, corrosion protection, spill
prevention and secondary containment requirements shall be met. Records of
monthly monitoring and inventory control shall be retained and available for
review by government officials in the event of a product release or spill.
            3.   Out-of service or abandoned underground tanks shall be emptied
and removed from the ground in accordance with requirements of the authorized
state and federal agencies.
         (d)   Sites with contaminated soils and/or groundwater.
            1.   Site plans shall detail the location and extent of any
contaminated soils or groundwater on the site.
            2.   Written verification from the authorized state agencies shall
be provided as a part of site plan review application that indicates their
approval of the proposed use or activity in relation to the contamination on-
site and clean-up efforts underway or anticipated.
   (F)   Expiration of site plan approval. The approval of any preliminary site
plan under the provisions of this chapter shall expire and be void one year
after the date of such approval unless final site approval has been granted, or
is in an active stage of review. Approval of any final site plan under the
provisions of this chapter shall expire and be void one year after the date of
such approval unless actual construction has commenced in accordance with the
issuance of a valid building permit. Upon expiration of a final site plan
approval, all preliminary site plan approvals shall expire.
   (G)   Fees. Any application for site plan approval, preliminary or final,
shall be accompanied by a fee as determined from time to time by resolution of
the Township Board.
   (H)   Performance bond for utility connections. An application for final
site plan approval that requires the installation of, modification of or
connection to public utilities, such as water, storm sewer, or sanitary sewer
lines, shall be accompanied by appropriate performance bonds for utility
connections. The amount of such bonds shall be established by resolution of the
Township Board.
   (I)   Approval and issuance of building permits. Building permits shall not
be issued until site plan approval has been granted by the Planning Commission
and, where applicable, the township engineering consultant has approved the
final engineering plans for the site.
   (J)   Amendments of approved site plans.
      (1)   An approved site plan may be amended by written application to the
Township Clerk in accordance with the submittal and review procedures for site
plan review detailed in division (B) above. Where the changes are minor, the
Planning Commission may waive the preliminary site plan review process and
review and act upon the proposed amendment during final site plan review.
      (2)   Any actual construction or plan changes made during construction
which are not approved by the Planning Commission and which differ from an
approved site plan shall be made at the applicant’s own risk without any
assurances that the Planning Commission will approve such changes. It shall be
the responsibility of the developer and/or applicant to apply for and receive
site plan approval for any modifications to approved site plans.
   (K)   Inspection. Inspections of all construction shall be conducted by the
Building Inspector and Administrative Official. Inspections for private roads
shall conform with §§
91.01 through
91.06.
   (L)   Staging or phasing of development. Whenever a project is proposed to
be developed in stages, each stage shall be clearly denoted on the preliminary
and final site plan. Site plan review and approval shall be required for each
subsequent stage which is proposed to begin later than one year after the
original approval.
   (M)   Violations and enforcement. Violations and enforcement of the
provisions of this section shall be addressed in accordance with the provisions
in §
153.999.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.181 ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All uses in every use district shall abut and have direct access to a
public street with a minimum right-of-way width of 66 feet, except as modified
by division (B) below.
   (B)   All uses in a business or industrial district which fronts upon Capac
Road between the south township limits near Capac and the I-69 freeway shall be
designed to minimize the number of driveways with access onto Capac Road. In
order to facilitate this goal, the site plan for all such uses shall include an
easement dedicated to the Township Board for the purpose of establishing a
service drive for the joint use of nearby businesses. Beginning at the proposed
120-foot right-of-way line which shall be measured 60 feet either side of the
existing centerline, the front 25 feet of the required front yard, except
necessary entrance drives, shall be landscaped as a greenbelt for the full
width of the property. The next 25 feet, for the full width of the property,
shall be the area dedicated as an easement to the township. The easement shall
permit the establishment of a service drive for the purpose of reducing direct
access onto Capac Road. The Township Planning Commission shall have the right
to require use of the service drive easement in lieu of an individual driveway
entrance onto Capac Road.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.182 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools may be permitted provided a building permit is
obtained. Plans and construction shall meet the requirements of the State
Health Department. Swimming pools shall not be constructed or placed nearer to
the street than the established front line. In-ground pools shall be securely
fenced with a chain link or other non-climbable fence and have self-closing
fence gates which shall be kept locked when the pool is not in use. Above-
ground pools shall have swing-up steps or a similar method of controlling entry
to the pool which shall be kept locked when the pool is not in use.
   (B)   All electrical installation or wiring in connection with swimming
pools shall conform to the provisions of the National Electrical Code. If
service drop conductors or other utility wires cross under or over a proposed
pool area, the applicant shall make satisfactory arrangements with the utility
involved for the relocation thereof before a permit shall be issued for the
construction of a swimming pool. No portion of a swimming pool or associated
structure shall be permitted to encroach upon any easement or right-of-way
which has been granted for public utility use.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.183 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   Whenever improvements such as paving of parking areas, greenbelt, screen
walls or other improvements are required by this chapter they shall be shown on
a site plan for the proposed use. In addition, the owner of the subject
property shall deposit with the Township Clerk a performance guarantee in the
amount of 10% of the estimated cost of the required improvements. The entire
sum shall be returned to the owner upon satisfactory completion of the required
improvements within the time limits specified herein.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.184 BASEMENT AND/OR GARAGE DWELLING PROHIBITED.
   Buildings erected after the effective date of this chapter as garages or
accessory buildings, with the exception of a caretaker’s residence, shall not
be occupied for dwelling purposes. No basement or cellar shall be used or
occupied for dwelling purposes at any time.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.185 PONDS.
   Private residential ponds and agricultural or farm ponds may be permitted on
a minimum of five acres in certain districts specified in this chapter, subject
to the following special standards.
   (A)   A zoning compliance permit shall be required for the construction,
enlargement or cleaning of all private residential, agricultural or farm ponds.
The property owner shall submit an application to the Township Clerk, for
review by the Township Building Official. The application shall be accompanied
by a site plan that demonstrates compliance with divisions (B) through (V)
below.
   (B)   There shall be a side and rear yard setback of at least 50 feet from
the edge of the excavation to the property lines. There shall be no excavation
within the required front yard setback.
   (C)   A minimum setback of 50 feet shall be maintained from the edge of
excavation to the nearest point of any single-family home, or accessory
building and 25 feet from any driveway.
   (D)   There shall be a minimum setback from any well, any septic tank and
tile disposal field of at least 100 feet.
   (E)   The pond may occupy up to a maximum of 20% of the lot or property upon
which it is placed.
   (F)   At least one side of all ponds shall be constructed with a maximum
slope of five feet horizontal to one foot vertical. In no case shall any other
slope exceed three to one.
   (G)   Natural drainage courses encountered during the construction,
enlargement or cleaning of a pond shall not be altered in any way that would
cause them to no longer function. If necessary, natural drainage courses shall
be rerouted around the pond by the owner and the contractor constructing the
pond.
   (H)   No pond shall be constructed, enlarged, cleaned or otherwise altered
in a manner that causes pond overflow water to run off onto adjacent lots or
parcels. Discharge of water from a natural or artificial pond shall be
controlled through the engineering of an outlet to an appropriate natural
waterway or county drain.
   (I)   Use of any residential, agricultural or farm pond by the public for
swimming, fishing or the like, is prohibited.
   (J)   No pond shall be located directly beneath an overhead electrical line,
wire or conductor, nor within ten feet horizontally of any overhead electrical
line.
   (K)   Excavated materials, in excess of 1,000 cubic yards, may not be hauled
off the site unless a mining permit is obtained pursuant to §
153.215 of this chapter.
   (L)   Ponds that will disturb over one acre of land shall obtain a soil
erosion control permit from the County Drain Commissioner and all work shall be
done in a manner that strives to protect the property and adjoining properties
against soil erosion. Ponds of five acres or more in size, or connected to an
existing lake or stream, or located within 500 feet of the ordinary high water
of an existing inland lake or stream, shall obtain a permit from the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   The pond shall be located and the property graded so as to prevent
sewage or run-off from barnyards from draining into the pond.
   (N)   All work shall be done in a manner that prevents soil erosion on the
subject property and on adjoining properties.
   (O)   If requested by the Building Inspector or the Zoning Administrator,
the applicant shall submit written verification from the State Department of
Environmental Quality that the proposed pond will not impact a wetland as
regulated by the Department of Environmental Quality under Public Act 451 of
1974, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq., as amended.
   (P)   It is strongly recommended that deep water signs (available from
Natural Resources Conservation Service) be posted and a minimum of one life
ring be at the site on a length of rope at least one-half the width of the
pond.
   (Q)   The Building Inspector may require a detailed drainage plan, prepared
by a professional registered civil engineer, where the Building Inspector
determines such a plan is necessary to ensure that the proposed pond and
associated placement of spoils on-site will not negatively impact drainage
patterns both on and off the site.
   (R)   On-site dispersal of excavated material shall be in accordance with
the following guidelines.
      (1)   Excavated materials shall be contoured or used to create berms with
a maximum slope of 1:3. The berm shall not exceed 36 inches in height and shall
be located a minimum of 12 feet from the edge of the pond.
      (2)   Where excavated materials are bermed or otherwise will result in an
increase in grade, the materials shall be contoured to avoid interruption of
the horizon by the top layer of the redistributed materials. The following
graphic illustrates the desired visual effect of this division (R)(2).
      (3)   All excavated material shall be suitably graded and seeded or
otherwise covered with grass or other living groundcover so as to prevent
erosion and to visually incorporate redistributed excavated materials into the
surrounding landscape.
   PROPER USE OF OVERBURDEN FOR PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PONDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-703.jpg]
 
   (S)   All applications for pond approval shall be accompanied by a permit
fee, in an amount established by resolution of the Township Board.
   (T)   A performance bond, in an amount established by resolution of the
Township Board, shall be posted by the applicant prior to issuance of a permit
to ensure completion of all required improvements.
   (U)   All approved ponds shall be completed within six months of issuance of
the permit. The Building Inspector may grant one six-month extension of the
permit where the applicant shows that substantial progress is being made.
   (V)   To discourage ponds from becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes,
all ponds shall be designed to maintain a minimum depth of ten feet, combined
with the safe slope requirements of division (F) above.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.186 TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. The township recognizes the direct correlation between land
use decisions and traffic operations. The intent is to permit accurate
evaluation of expected impacts of proposed projects to assist in decision-
making. This section is further intended to help achieve the following
objectives:
      (1)   Provide a standard set of analytic tolls and format for preparing
traffic impact studies;
      (2)   Allow the community to assess the effects that a proposed project
may have on the community by outlining information needed and evaluation
procedures to be used;
      (3)   Help ensure safe and reasonable traffic operating conditions on
streets and intersections after development of the proposed use;
      (4)   Reduce the negative traffic impacts created by individual
developments, and which may negatively impact such developments, by helping to
ensure the transportation system can accommodate the expected traffic safety
and efficiently;
      (5)   For rezoning, the traffic impact study is intended to evaluate if
the rezoning is timely and, if inconsistent with the Master Plan, if the
rezoning would be a logical alternative to the Master Plan, from a traffic
perspective;
      (6)   Realize a comprehensive approach to the overall impacts of
developments along a corridor or within part of a community rather than a
piecemeal approach;
      (7)   Provide direction to community decision makers, road agencies and
developers of expected impacts of a project;
      (8)   Alert the community, transportation agencies and developers of
improvements or modifications needed to the roadway, access or site design; and
      (9)   Protect the substantial public investment in the existing street
system.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AVERAGE DAY. A Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday for most uses. The AVERAGE
DAY may be a Saturday for uses that have higher peak-hour traffic volumes on a
Saturday rather than mid-week.
      DEVELOPMENT. A site plan, subdivision tentative preliminary plat,
condominium project, mobile home park, redevelopment, reuse or expansion of a
use or building.
      GAP (CRITICAL GAP). The median time headway (in seconds) between vehicles
in a major traffic stream which will permit side-street vehicles at STOP or
YIELD controlled approach to cross through or merge with the major traffic
stream under prevailing traffic and roadway conditions.
      LEVEL OF SERVICE. A qualitative measure describing operational conditions
within a traffic stream, generally described in terms of such factors as speed
and travel time, delay, freedom to maneuver, traffic interruptions, comfort and
convenience and safety.
      MASTER PLAN. The Master Plan for Land Use adopted by the Township
Planning Commission which illustrates the intended future land use pattern and
may also describe road functional classifications and intended improvements to
the transportation system (i.e., Comprehensive Plan, Future Land Use Plan,
Thoroughfare Plan and the like).
      PEAK HOUR. A one-hour period representing the highest hourly volume of
traffic flow on the adjacent street system during the morning (a.m. peak hour),
during the afternoon or evening (p.m. peak hour); or representing the hour of
highest volume of traffic entering or exiting a site (peak hour or generator).
      STUDY AREA. The geographic area containing those critical arterial
intersections (and connecting roadway segments) which are expected to be
affected by the site-traffic generated by a development.
      TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY. The analysis of the potential traffic impacts
generated by a proposed project. This type of study and level of analysis will
vary dependent upon the type and size of the project - Abbreviated Traffic
Impact Assessment, Rezoning Traffic Impact Study and Traffic Impact Statement.
      TRIP. A single or one-direction vehicle movement with either the origin
or the destination (exiting or entering) inside a study site.
   (C)   Applicability. A traffic impact study shall be required and shall be
submitted by a petitioner for a rezoning, preliminary site plan, concept plan
or subdivision plan (tentative preliminary plat) under any of the situations
listed below. The type of study required shall be dependent upon the type and
scale of the proposed use and existing traffic conditions.
      (1)   A rezoning traffic impact study for the following rezoning
amendment requests:
         (a)   Any proposed change of zoning from residential to a
nonresidential category;
         (b)   Any proposed change of zoning from single-family residential to
multiple-family residential; and
         (c)   Any other proposed zoning that would likely increase trips
generated per day to and from the subject site by 1,000 or more over one or
more principal uses permitted in the existing zoning district, as determined by
the Planning Commission following a traffic analysis and recommendation by the
township’s planning consultant.
      (2)   Development proposals. Site plans, plats, mobile home park plans
and condominium projects.
         (a)   A traffic impact statement shall be required for any proposed
development which would be expected to generate over 100 directional trips
during the peak hour of the traffic generator or the peak hour on the adjacent
streets, or over 750 trips in an average day. The following table shall be used
by the planning consultant as a guideline in making a recommendation to the
Planning Commission. The Township Planning Commission shall determine if a
traffic impact statement is required.
Examples of Land Use Size Thresholds Based on Trip Generation Characteristics
(1)(2)
Land Use 100 Peak Hour - Peak Direction 750 Trips Daily
Examples of Land Use Size Thresholds Based on Trip Generation Characteristics
(1)(2)
Land Use                 100 Peak Hour - Peak     750 Trips Daily
                         Direction
Apartments               245 units                120 units
Banks w/drive-in (GFA)   4,400 sq. ft.            2,800 sq. ft.
Church(7)                17,300 sq. ft.           20,500 sq. ft.
Condominiums/Townhouses  295 units                120 units
Convenience Store w/gas  1,300 sq. ft. or 5 pumps 1,000 sq. ft.
(GFA)(3)(5)
Day Care Centers         220 students             160 students
Fast Food Rest. w/drive- 5,200 sq. ft.            1,200 sq. ft.
in (GFA)
General Office           55,000 sq. ft.           45,000 sq. ft.
Hotel/Motel              250 rooms                90 rooms
Light Industrial         115,000 sq. ft./8 acres  115,000 sq. ft. or 11.5 acres
Manufacturing            250,000 sq. ft.          195,000 sq. ft.
Medical/Dental Office    37,000 sq. ft.           26,000 sq. ft.
Mobile Home Park         305 units                150 units
Research and Development 85,000 sq. ft./4.5 acres 70,000 sq. ft. or 4 acres
Shopping Center/Retail   15,500 sq. ft.           2,700 sq. ft.
(GLA)(3)
Single-Family            150 units                70 units
(1)   Rates/equations used to calculate the above thresholds are the Trip
Generator, 5th Edition, 1991, by the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
(2)   For example, a full traffic impact study should be completed (100 peak
hour, peak direction trips generated) if 150 or more single-family units are
proposed for a site.
(3)   GLA = Gross Leaseable Area; GFA = Gross Floor Area.
(4)   Using AM peak hour equations would produce a lower threshold. However,
adjacent roadway volumes are usually higher during the PM peak hour.
(5)   Uses both “Service Station with Market” and “Convenience Market with
Pumps” data.
(6)   Uses Convenience Market (24-hour) data (ITE 851).
(7)   Based on Sunday data.
For further trip generation characteristics of the above land uses, or of other
uses not illustrated above, refer to the latest version of Trip Generation.
 
         (b)   An abbreviated traffic impact assessment shall be required for
the following projects: sit-down restaurants with more than 150 seats, fast-
food restaurants, banks and savings institutions and convenience/party stores;
provided, however, that if one or more threshold in the Table in (C)(2)(a)
above is met, then a complete traffic impact statement shall be prepared.
         (c)   A traffic impact statement or assessment, based on the threshold
in division (C)(1) above and this division (C)(2), shall be required for new
phases or substantial changes to a development where a traffic study is more
than two years old and roadway conditions have changed significantly.
         (d)   Special land uses shall be required to provide a traffic impact
statement based on the thresholds in division (C)(1) above and this division
(C)(2).
   (D)   Traffic impact study contents.
      (1)   Description of the site, surroundings and study area. Illustrations
and a narrative should describe the characteristics of the site and adjacent
roadway system (functional classification, lanes, speed limits and the like).
This description should include surrounding land uses, expected development in
the vicinity which could influence future traffic conditions, special site
features and a descriptions of any committed roadway improvements. The study
should define and justify the study area selected for analysis.
      (2)   Description of the requested zoning or use.
         (a)   Traffic study for a rezoning shall include: a description of the
potential uses which would be allowed, compared to those allowed under current
zoning. If the use is not consistent with the community’s Master Plan, an
explanation of the difference should be provided.
         (b)   Traffic study for a site plan review, mobile home park,
condominium project or subdivision tentative preliminary plat or special land
uses shall include a description of factors such as the number and types of
dwelling units, the gross and useable floor area, the number of employees and
shift change factors. Intended phasing or future expansion should also be
noted.
      (3)   Description of existing traffic conditions.
         (a)   Traffic counts. Existing conditions including existing peak-hour
traffic volumes (and daily volumes if applicable) on street(s) adjacent to the
site. Existing counts and levels of service for intersections in the vicinity
which are expected to be impacted, as identified by the planning consultant at
a pre-application conference or discussion, should be provided for projects
requiring a traffic impact statement. Traffic count data shall not be over two
years old, except the township may permit counts up to three years old to be
increased by a factor supported by documentation or a finding that traffic has
increased at a rate less than 2% annually in the past three to five years.
         (b)   Traffic counts shall be taken on a Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday of non-holiday weeks. Additional counts (e.g., on a Saturday for a
proposed commercial development) may also be required in some cases. The
individual or firm performing average or higher than average volume conditions
(i.e. regarding weather or seasonal variations and in consideration of any
construction or special events) for the area under study.
         (c)   Roadway characteristics shall be described and illustrated, as
appropriate. Features to be addressed include lane configuration, geometrics,
signal timing, traffic-control devices, posted speed limits, and any sight
distance limitations. Except for rezoning traffic studies, existing levels of
service shall be calculated for intersections included within the study area.
         (d)   Existing driveways and potential turning movement conflicts in
the vicinity of the site shall be illustrated and described (not required for
rezoning traffic study).
         (e)   The existing and proposed right-of-way shall be identified (not
required for rezoning traffic study).
      (4)   Background traffic growth. For any project requiring a traffic
impact statement with a completion date beyond one year at the time of the
traffic study, the analysis shall also include a scenario analyzing forecast
traffic at date of completion along the adjacent street network using historic
annual percentage increases and/or future development in the area which as been
approved. This component is not part of an abbreviated traffic impact
assessment or rezoning traffic study.
      (5)   Trip generation.
         (a)   Forecasted trip generation of the proposed use for the a.m. (if
applicable) and p.m. peak hour and average day. The forecasts shall be based on
the data and procedures outlined in the most recent edition of Trip Generation
published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE). The applicant may
use other commonly accepted sources of data or supplement the standard data
with data from at least three similar projects in the state.
         (b)   For rezoning requests where a traffic study is required, the
study should contrast the traffic impacts of typical uses permitted in the
requested zoning district with uses permitted in the current zoning district.
The determination of typical uses shall be made by the Planning Commission or
planning consultant. For traffic impact assessments or statements, the rates
for the specific use(s) proposed shall be used.
         (c)   Any trip reduction for pass-by trips, transit, ridesharing,
other modes, internal capture rates and the like shall be based both on ITE
findings and documented survey results acceptable to the township. The
community may elect to reduce the trip reduction rates used.
         (d)   For projects intended to be developed in phases, the trip
generation by phase shall be described.
      (6)   Trip distribution (for assessments and statements only; not for
rezonings). The projected traffic generated shall be distributed (inbound v.
outbound, left turn v. right turn) onto the existing street network to project
turning movements at site access points and, for traffic impact statements, at
nearby intersections. Projected turning movements shall be illustrated in the
report. A description of the application of standard engineering procedures for
determining the distribution should also be attached (trip distribution model,
market studies, counts at existing driveways and the like).
      (7)   Impact analysis (for traffic impact statements only). Level of
service or “capacity” analysis at the proposed access points using the
procedures outlined in the most recent edition of the Highway Capacity Manual
published by the Transportation Research Board. Before and after capacity
analysis shall also be performed at the closest signalized intersection for all
street intersections where the expected traffic generated at the site will
comprise at least 5% of the existing intersection capacity, and/or for roadway
sections and intersections experiencing congestion, as determined by the
township.
      (8)   Access design/access management standards. (Not required for a
rezoning traffic study). The report shall include a map and description of the
location and design of proposed access (driveway or new street intersections)
including: any sight distance limitations, dimensions from adjacent driveways
and intersections within 200 feet on either side of the main roadway, data to
demonstrate the number of driveways proposed in the fewest necessary, support
that the access points will provide safe and efficient traffic operation and be
in accordance with the standards of the township and the applicable road
agency.
      (9)   Other study items. The traffic impact study (assessment or
statement) shall include:
         (a)   Need for, or provision of, any additional right-of-way where
planned or desired by the township or applicable road agency;
         (b)   Changes which should be considered to the plat or site plan
layout;
         (c)   Description of any needed non-motorized facilities;
         (d)   If the use involves a drive-through facility, the adequacy of
the (queuing or stacking) area should be evaluated;
         (e)   If a median crossover is desired, separate analysis should be
provided;
         (f)   If a traffic signal is being requested, the relationship of
anticipated traffic to traffic signal warrants in the Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Analysis should also be provided on the
impacts to traffic progression along the roadway through coordination timing
and the like; and
         (g)   Description of site circulation and available sight distances at
site driveways.
      (10)   Mitigation/alternatives. The study shall outline mitigation
measures and demonstrate any changes to the level of service achieved by these
measures. Any alternatives or suggested phasing of improvements should be
described. The mitigation measures may include items such as roadway widening,
need for bypass lanes or deceleration tapers/lanes, changes to signalization,
use of access management techniques or a reduction in the proposed intensity of
use. Proposed mitigation measures shall be discussed with the applicable road
agency. The responsibility and timing of roadway improvements shall be
described.
      (11)   Qualifications.
         (a)   Preparer. The preparation of a thorough traffic impact study
requires extensive background and experience in traffic-related analysis.
Therefore, the experience of the preparer best defines his or her ability to
provide a technically sound analysis. Preparer requirements are outlined below.
            1.   The person responsible for the preparation of the study shall
meet the following requirements:
               a.   Three or more years of recent experience in the preparation
of traffic impact studies;
               b.   The development of impact studies (and similar
intersections and/or corridor analysis) comprise a major component of the
preparer’s recent professional experience. This requires ongoing experience and
familiarity with the Highway Capacity Manual techniques as well as the computer
software (Highway Capacity software and others) that provide level of service
results and other analysis findings needed to fully assess potential impacts;
               c.   Specific education, training and/or professional coursework
in traffic impact analysis from an accredited college or university or other
professional transportation training organization (such as National Highway
Institute, Northwestern University Traffic Institute and the like); and
               d.   The study preparer shall be an associate (or higher) member
of one or more professional transportation-related organizations, such as, the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) or the Transportation Research
Board (TRB). This helps ensure that the preparer is maintaining their knowledge
as new research is published and analysis techniques are changed or refined.
            2.   In addition, the preparer should have one of the following
professional qualifications:
               a.   A registered engineer (PE);
               b.   A community planner with AICP or PCP certification; or
               c.   A trained professional transportation planner.
            3.   Any study involving roadway or traffic signal design work
shall be prepared by or under the supervision of a registered engineer (PE)
with specific training in traffic engineering.
            4.   The study should include a resume of the preparer responsible
for the report. The study may also include relevant experience of the
preparer’s firm. The study should also be signed by the preparer with full
recognition of potential liability for the results and recommendations outlined
in the report.
         (b)   Reviewer. Review of the study is important to ensure that the
analysis and recommendations are based on accepted practices. The traffic
impact study shall be reviewed by a trained traffic engineer or transportation
planner. The qualifications of the reviewer should parallel those of the
preparer’s as outlined above.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   The applicant shall discuss or meet with the Township Planner to
determine if a study is needed, what type of study is needed and specific items
to be addressed.
      (2)   The applicant submits traffic impact study to the community, with
the request for rezoning or preliminary development proposal. A revised study
may be required as the scope and details of the request change.
      (3)   The township distributes the traffic impact study to the
appropriate reviewers. A copy may also be submitted to the metropolitan
planning organization, transit agency and the like as appropriate for projects
or regional significance or along critical corridors.
      (4)   Reviewers provide community with comments prior to any action on
the project.
   (F)   Waiver of study requirements. The requirement for a traffic impact
study, or the study elements listed in division (D) above “Traffic Impact Study
Contents” may be waived/modified by the Planning Commission, after a traffic
analysis and recommendation by the township’s planning consultant. Reasons for
the waiver or modifications shall be documented. Factors to be considered
include:
      (1)   The existing level of service along the roadway is not expected to
drop below LOS “C” due to the proposed project;
      (2)   The existing level of service is not expected to be significantly
impacted by the proposed project due to specific conditions at this location;
and
      (3)   A similar traffic study was previously prepared for the site and is
still considered applicable.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.187 STANDARDS FOR CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to authority conferred by Public Act 59 of 1978, §
141, being M.C.L.A. § 559.141, as amended, all condominium subdivision plans
must be approved by the Planning Commission. In determining whether to approve
a condominium subdivision plan, the Planning Commission shall consult with the
Township Attorney, Township Engineer and Township Planner regarding the
adequacy of the master deed, deed restrictions, utility systems and streets,
subdivision layout and design, and compliance with requirements of the
Condominium Act and applicable township ordinances, including the zoning
ordinance, subdivision regulations ordinance and §§
91.01 through
91.06.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms are defined both in the context of
the Condominium Act and in a manner intended to make comparison possible
between the terms of this chapter and the subdivision regulations ordinance
(Chapter 152) with the Condominium Act. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended.
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. Equivalent to the term “subdivision” as used in
this chapter and
Chapter 152.
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The site, survey and utility plans; floor
plan; floodplains plans; and building sections, as appropriate, showing the
existing and proposed structures and improvements including the location
thereof on the land. The condominium subdivision plan shall show the size,
location, area and horizontal boundaries of each unit as well as vertical
boundaries and volume for each unit comprised of enclosed air space. A number
shall be assigned to each condominium unit. The CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN
shall include the nature, location, and approximate size of common elements,
and provisions for the maintenance of common areas.
      CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
      CONSOLIDATING MASTER DEED. The final amended master deed for a
contractible condominium project, an expandable condominium project, or a
condominium project containing convertible land or convertible space, which
final amended master deed fully describes the condominium project as completed.
      CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to express provision
in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and Public Act
59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272.
      CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing condominium
units, some or all of which were occupied before the establishment of the
condominium project.
      CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or a portion of the common elements of the
condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional condominium units or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents to express
provision in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and
the Condominium Act.
      EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional land
may be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
      FRONT YARD SETBACK. Shall be equal to the distance between the front yard
area line and the condominium dwelling.
      LOT. The same as HOMESITE and CONDOMINIUM UNIT.
      MOBILE HOME CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A condominium project in which mobile
homes are intended to be located upon separate sites which constitute
individual condominium units.
      MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project
as approved by the Zoning Administrator and Township Planning Commission to
which is attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the approved bylaws
for the project and the approved condominium subdivision plan for the project.
      REAR YARD SETBACK. Equal to the distance between the rear yard area line
and the condominium dwelling.
      SIDE YARD SETBACK. Equal to the distance between the side yard area line
and the condominium dwelling.
   (C)   Condominium subdivision plan; required content. All condominium
subdivision plans shall include the information required by § 66 of the
Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 559.166, and the
following:
      (1)   A survey plan of the condominium subdivision;
      (2)   A floodplain plan, if the condominium project lies within or abuts
a floodplain area;
      (3)   A site plan showing the location, size, shape, area and width of
all condominium units;
      (4)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water and storm sewer
lines and easements granted to the township for installation, repair and
maintenance of all utilities;
      (5)   A street construction, paving (if applicable), and maintenance plan
for private streets within the proposed condominium subdivision; and
      (6)   A storm drainage and stormwater management plan, including all
lines, swells, drains, basins and other facilities.
   (D)   Easements for utilities. The condominium subdivision plan shall
include all necessary easements granted to the township for the purposes of
constructing, operating, inspecting, maintaining, repairing, altering,
replacing, and/or removing pipelines, mains, conduits and other installations
of a similar character (hereinafter collectively called “public structures”)
for the purpose of providing public utilities, including conveyance of sewer,
water and stormwater run-off across, through and under the property subject to
said easement, and excavating and refilling ditches and trenches necessary for
the location of said structures.
   (E)   Private streets. If a condominium subdivision is proposed to have
private streets, they shall be developed to the minimum design, construction,
inspection, approval and maintenance requirements of §§
91.01 through
91.06. In addition, all private streets in a condominium subdivision which are
proposed to have a paved driving surface of asphalt or concrete shall meet the
minimum design and construction standards of the County Road Commission.
   (F)   Encroachment prohibited. Encroachment of one condominium unit upon
another, as described in § 48 of the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. § 559.148, shall be prohibited by the condominium bylaws and
recorded as part of the master deed.
   (G)   Relocation of boundaries. The relocation of boundaries, as described
in § 48 of the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §
559.148, shall conform to all setback requirements of this ordinance for the
district in which the project is located, shall be approved by the Planning
Commission, and this requirement shall be made part of the bylaws and recorded
as part of the master deed.
   (H)   Subdivision of condominium units. All subdivisions of individual
condominium units shall conform to the requirements of this chapter for minimum
lot width, lot area and building setback requirements, shall be made part of
the bylaws and recorded as part of the master deed.
   (I)   Mobile home condominium project. Mobile home condominium projects
shall conform to all requirements of this chapter and shall be located only in
a MHP Mobile Home Park District.
   (J)   Condominium subdivision layout, design and approval. All condominium
subdivision plans shall conform to the plan preparation requirements, review
and approval procedures; design, layout and improvements standards of the
township subdivision regulations ordinance as amended. The requirements for
final plat approval in the subdivision regulations ordinance shall not apply to
condominium subdivision plans, except that a deposit in the form of cash,
certified check or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be made with the
township to guarantee the installation and completion of any required public
sanitary sewer, water supply and drainage facilities, within a length of time
agreed upon from the date of final approval of the condominium subdivision plan
by the Planning Commission. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
requiring a condominium subdivision to obtain plat approval under Chapter 152
of this code or the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.188 TEMPORARY TRAILERS.
   (A)   A temporary recreational vehicle or trailer holding a valid road
license may be permitted in the Agricultural (AG), Single-Family Rural
Residential (SF) and Single-Family (R-1) Districts, in order to temporarily
house the owner and secure tools and materials for the principal single-family
dwelling under construction.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a building permit to locate the temporary
recreational vehicle or trailer on the parcel, the Building Inspector shall
find that the following standards are met.
      (1)   A temporary recreational vehicle or trailer may be erected on a
parcel after issuance of a building permit for the principal single-family
dwelling and after installation, inspection and approval of the foundation for
the principal single-family dwelling by the Building Inspection.
      (2)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall be permitted
for a period not to exceed six months from the date of issuance of a building
permit for the temporary recreational vehicle or trailer during the actual
construction on the property of the owner’s principal single-family dwelling. A
single six-month extension may be granted by the Building Inspector, provided
that substantial progress has been made toward completion of the principal
single-family dwelling in accordance with the building permit.
      (3)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall contain only
those tools and materials that will be used to construct the principal single-
family dwelling on the site. It may not serve as a storage facility for
materials being used off-site.
      (4)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall be properly
connected to approved sanitary facilities prior to issuance of the building
permit for the temporary recreational vehicle or trailer. Permits shall be
secured from the County Health Department and any other applicable approving
authorities prior to issuance of the building permit. This shall be construed
to require the installation of an approved septic system and domestic water
supply well prior to occupancy as a temporary dwelling. The temporary
recreational vehicle or trailer may house only the owner and immediate family
members.
      (5)   A maximum of one temporary recreational vehicle or trailer may be
permitted per parcel.
      (6)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall hold a valid
road license for the duration of time in which the temporary permit is valid.
      (7)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall meet the
setback standards of Article 11 and shall not be permitted within a dedicated
easement or right-of-way.
      (8)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall not be located
closer than 10 feet to any other structures or lot line.
      (9)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall not exceed the
ground-floor area of the principal single-family dwelling.
      (10)   The temporary recreational vehicle or trailer shall be removed
within two weeks of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the principal
single-family dwelling. Prior to the issuance of a permit for the temporary
recreational vehicle or trailer, the property owner shall deposit with the
township a performance guarantee as established by the Township Board to insure
removal of the temporary recreational vehicle or trailer in the time period
specified above.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.189 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT STANDARDS.
   All single-family dwelling units in the Agriculture (AG) District and
Single-Family Rural Residential (SF and R-1) Districts, and any additions or
alterations thereto, whether site-built or factory-built, other than
manufactured homes located in a licensed manufactured home park approved under
the provisions of §
153.061(D), shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   All such dwelling units must meet the current construction standards
of the state and the township prior to being brought into the township and
prior to issuance of a building permit. The minimum acceptable standard for
factory-built homes shall be the Department of Housing and Urban Development
Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards being 24 C.F.R. part 3280, and as
from time to time such standards may be amended.
   (B)   All such dwelling units shall comply with all pertinent zoning,
subdivision and other ordinances regulating use, floor area, lot size, setback
and yards in the district in which they are located, including §
153.150 of this chapter.
   (C)   All additions shall be constructed with similar quality materials as
the original structure and shall be permanently supported by and anchored to an
approval foundation.
   (D)   All such dwelling units shall be firmly attached to a permanent
foundation constructed on the site in accordance with the building code in
effect in the township. The foundation shall have a wall of the same perimeter
dimensions as the dwelling, and constructed of such materials and type as
required in the building code for single-family dwellings. In the event that
the dwelling is a manufactured home, such dwelling shall be installed pursuant
to the manufacturer’s setup instructions and shall be secured to the premises
by an anchoring system or device complying with the rules and regulations of
the Mobile Home Commission and shall have a perimeter wall as required above.
   (E)   All such dwellings shall be connected to a public sewer and water
system or private facilities approved by the County Health Department.
   (F)   All such dwellings shall be compatible in design and appearance to
homes in the neighborhood in which they are located. The determination of
compatibility shall be based upon compliance with the following standards.
      (1)   Hip, gable, shed, gambrel or similar types of roofs shall have a
minimum pitch of three to twelve. Flat roof styles shall comply with the
building code.
      (2)   The dwelling shall have steps and/or porches which provide access
to exterior doors, and which are comparable to steps and/or porches to homes
typically found in the neighborhood in which it is to be located.
      (3)   There shall be at least two exterior doors to the living portion,
and these doors shall be located on two different sides of the dwelling.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.190 ON-SITE USE WIND SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Intent; systems not permitted. An on-site use wind energy system (see
§
153.002 for definition) is intended to first serve the needs of the applicant.
A utility grid wind energy system (see §
153.002 for definition) is not a permitted use under this section. A utility
grid wind energy system is separately provided for and regulated as a special
land use (§
153.243) in the AG and LI Districts. An anemometer tower shall abide by the
same regulations below for on-site wind systems and shall be removed before an
on-site use wind system is installed.
   (B)   General requirements in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Setbacks. The base of the tower shall be setback a distance of not
less than one and one-half times the height of the tower from the nearest
property line. In addition, no part of the wind energy system structure,
including guy wire anchors, may extend closer than ten feet to the nearest
property line.
      (2)   Noise. Sound pressure levels shall not exceed 55 dB(A) at the
property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound pressure level may
be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard
shall be ambient dB(A) plus five dB(A).
      (3)   Shadow flicker. The applicant must demonstrate that no adverse
shadow flicker impact will occur from sunrise to sunset throughout the year on
any occupied buildings and lands of adjacent properties. Measures to eliminate
or mitigate any potential shadow flicker impacts shall be identified and be
made known to adjacent property owners.
      (4)   Safety.
         (a)   Vertical clearance. The minimum vertical blade tip clearance
from grade shall be 20 feet for a wind energy system employing a horizontal
axis rotor. Blade or rotor arc must be demonstrated to be a safe and reasonable
distance from any separate building, structure, utility wire or tree.
         (b)   Guy wire visibility. If a wind energy system tower is supported
by guy wires, the wires shall be clearly visible to a height of at least six
feet above the guy wire anchors.
         (c)   Rotor or blade integrity protection. An on-site use wind energy
system shall have automatic braking, governing or a feathering system to
prevent uncontrolled rotation or over speeding.
         (d)   Lightning. All wind energy system towers shall have lightning
protection.
      (5)   Construction codes, towers and interconnection standards. On-site
use wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with all applicable
state construction and electrical codes and local building permit requirements.
On-site use wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with Federal
Aviation Administration requirements, the State Airport Zoning Act, Public Act
23 of 1950, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq., the State Tall Structures Act,
Public Act 259 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq., and any local
jurisdiction airport overlay zone regulations. If an on-site use wind energy
system is attached to a building or structure, the building inspector must
approve it as being safe and secure and in accordance with all applicable state
construction and electrical codes.
      (6)   Wiring. All wiring between the tower and the principal building
shall be underground.
   (C)   Residential Districts (except AG). When located in SF, R-1, RM and RC
Districts, the following additional regulations shall apply:
      (1)   An on-site use wind energy system shall be located only in a rear
yard, or if attached to a building or other structure it shall be located at
the rear of said building or structure;
      (2)   The height of the tower above the average grade of the lot shall
not exceed 65 feet to the top of the blade in its vertical position; and
      (3)   Only one wind energy system is permitted per lot or premises.
   (D)   Business Districts. When located in B-1 or B-2 Districts, the height
of the tower above the average grade of the lot shall not exceed 75 feet to the
top of the blade in its vertical position.
   (E)   Agricultural and Industrial Districts. When located in AG or LI
Districts, the height of the tower may exceed district height limits. When
located in AG Districts an on-site use wind energy system shall be located only
in a rear yard when the subject lot or parcel contains a residence, or if
attached to a building or other structure it shall be located at the rear of
said building or structure.
   (F)   Decommissioning.
      (1)   The on-site use wind energy system and all appurtenances thereto
shall be removed from the site within one year after the system is no longer in
use (not generating any electricity for over 12 months). The owner of the land
upon which the system is located shall be responsible for such removal. A
system which is not so removed shall constitute a public nuisance per se.
      (2)   The applicant shall post a bond (cash or irrevocable bank letter of
credit) with the township in an amount sufficient for the removal of the on-
site use wind energy system (including all accessory buildings and structures),
clean up of the site including removal of the foundations and restoration of
the site to a condition equal to or better than that which existed prior to the
installation of the system.
(Ord. 28, passed 2-9-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.191 KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Domestic pets as defined in §
153.002 may be kept in any zoning district. Wild and exotic animals as defined
in §
153.002 are prohibited in all Zoning districts. Farm animals as defined in §
153.002 may be kept only on lots used for agriculture, hobby farms, or another
conforming use requiring the keeping of farm animals.
   (B)   The animals listed below may be kept according with the following
schedule:
Lot Description Regulation
Lot Description                                              Regulation
1.   Farms (including hobby farms) on lots of 40 acres or There shall be no zoning limits on the number of animals kept
more
                                                             Horses, ponies, and other equines:
                                                                No more than two horses or ponies may be kept on lots with a minimum of 3
                                                             acres. One additional horse or pony may be kept for each 2.5 acres of lot area in
                                                             excess of 3 acres.
                                                             Cattle:
2.   Farms (including hobby farms) under 40 acres            No more than one per acre. The combined number of cattle and horses or ponies
                                                             may not exceed one animal per acre.
                                                             Pigs, sheep, or goats
                                                                No more than two per acre, of any combination.
                                                             Poultry
                                                                No more than 35 per acre, in any combination.
                                                             Horses or ponies and other equines:
                                                                No more than two horses or ponies may be kept on lots with a minimum of 3
                                                             acres. One additional horse or pony may be kept for each 2.5 acres of lot area in
                                                             excess of 3 acres. +
                                                             Cattle:
3.   All other lots                                          Cattle shall be prohibited on lots that do not contain agricultural uses or
                                                             hobby farms
                                                             Pigs, sheep, or goats:
                                                                Nor more than one per acre, or any combination.
                                                             Poultry:
                                                                No more than ten may be kept on lots under 2.5 acres. Ten additional may be
                                                             kept for each 2.5 acres of lot area in excess of 2.5 acres.
 
(Ord. 30, passed 2-9-2011; Ord. 36, passed 6-8-2016)
SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.205 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   For all special land uses, a site plan shall be submitted to the
Township Planning Commission and conform to the requirements and procedures for
site plan review set forth in §
153.180. If the plans meet the required standards of this chapter, subchapter
and applicable section, and indicate no adverse effects, which in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, cause injury to the residents, users or adjoining
property or the township as a whole, the Planning Commission shall approve the
use. The Planning Commission shall have sole power to approve or disapprove all
special land uses.
      (2)   In consideration of all applications for special land use approval,
the Planning Commission shall review each case individually as to its
applicability and must find affirmatively to each of the following standards of
the proposed special land use if it is to be approved.
      (3)   Such uses shall be subject to conditions, restrictions and
safeguards deemed necessary within the scope of the law as set forth below.
         (a)   The proposed special land use shall be of such location, size
and character that it will be in harmony with the appropriate and orderly
development of the surrounding neighborhood and/or vicinity and applicable
regulations of the zoning district in which it is to be located.
         (b)   The proposed use shall be of a nature that will make vehicular
and pedestrian traffic no more hazardous than is normal for the district
involved, taking into consideration vehicular turning movements in relation to
routes of traffic flow, proximity and relationship to intersections, adequacy
of sight distances, location and access of off-street parking and provisions
for pedestrian traffic, with particular attention to minimizing child-vehicle
interfacing.
         (c)   The proposed use shall be designed as to the location, size,
intensity, site layout and periods of operation of any such proposed use to
eliminate any possible nuisance emanating therefrom which might be noxious to
the occupants of any other nearby permitted uses, whether by reason of dust,
noise, fumes, vibration, smoke or lights.
         (d)   The proposed use shall be such that the proposed location and
height of buildings or structures and location, nature and height of walls,
fences and landscaping will not interfere with or discourage the appropriate
development and use of adjacent land and buildings or unreasonably affect their
value.
         (e)   The proposed use shall relate harmoniously with the physical and
economic aspects of adjacent land uses as regards prevailing shopping habits,
convenience of access by prospective patrons, continuity of development, and
need for particular services and facilities in specific areas of the township.
         (f)   The proposed use is necessary for the public convenience at the
proposed location.
         (g)   The proposed use is so designated, located, planned and to be
operated that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected.
         (h)   The proposed use shall not cause substantial injury to the value
of other property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located and will not
be detrimental to existing and/or other permitted land uses in the zoning
district.
   (B)   Approval. If the Planning Commission determines that the particular
special land use should be allowed, it shall endorse its approval thereof on
the written application and clearly set forth in writing thereon the particular
uses which have been allowed. Thereafter, the enforcing officer may issue a
building permit in conformity with the particular special land use so approved.
In all cases where a particular special land use has been granted as provided
herein, application for a building permit is pursuance thereof must be made and
received by the township not later than 120 days thereafter, or such approval
shall automatically be revoked, provided, however, the Planning Commission may
grant an extension thereof for good cause shown under such terms and conditions
and for such period of time not exceeding six months as it shall determine to
be necessary and appropriate.
   (C)   Denial. If the Planning Commission shall determine that the particular
special land use requested does not meet the standards of this chapter or
otherwise will tend to be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or
orderly development of the township, it shall deny the application by a written
endorsement thereon which clearly sets forth the reason for such denial.
   (D)   Record. If the Planning Commission shall determine that the particular
special land use requested does not meet the standards of this chapter or
otherwise will tend to be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or
orderly development of the township, it shall deny the application by a written
endorsement thereon which clearly sets forth the reason for such denial.
   (E)   Hearings. The Planning Commission shall investigate the circumstances
of each such case and give notice of the time and place of any hearing, meeting
or review which may be held relative thereto as required by state law and/or
its rules or procedure.
   (F)   Conditions.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may impose such conditions or limitations
in granting approval as may be permitted by state law and this chapter which it
deems necessary to fulfill the spirit and purpose of this chapter. The
conditions may include, conditions necessary to ensure that public services and
facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity will be capable of
accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the land use or
activity, to protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and
energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of land and to promote the
use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner.
      (2)   Conditions imposed shall do all the following:
         (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare, as well as the social and economic well-being of those who will use
the land use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as
a whole;
         (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and
purposes which are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
         (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning
regulations; be related to the standards established in this chapter for the
land use or activity under consideration; and be necessary to ensure compliance
with those standards.
      (3)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a land use
or activity shall be recorded in the record of the approval action and shall
remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent to the approving authority and
the landowner. The Planning Commission shall maintain a record of changes
granted in conditions.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.206 AIRPORTS.
   Airports, airfields, runways, hangars, beacons and other facilities involved
with aircraft operations may be permitted in the AG District subject to the
provisions of this chapter and the following special standards.
   (A)   General. Airports, airfields, runways, hangars, beacons and other
facilities involved with aircraft operations shall be subject to all rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, which agency shall approve
the preliminary plans submitted to the township. All aircraft approach lanes,
as established by appropriate aviation authorities, shall be so developed as to
not endanger the permitted land use. Permitted height of buildings, structures,
telephone and electrical lines and appurtenances thereto shall be considered
factors in consultations with the appropriate aeronautical agencies, in
considering an airport use.
   (B)   Yard and placement requirements.
      (1)   No building or structure or part thereof shall be erected closer
than 60 feet from any property line.
      (2)   Those buildings to be used for servicing or maintenance shall not
be located on the outer perimeter of the site where abutting property is zoned
residential.
   (C)   Performance requirements. All lights used for landing strips and other
lighting facilities shall be so arranged as not to reflect towards adjoining
non-airport uses.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. The open storage of junked or wrecked motor vehicles
or aircraft shall not be permitted, except that wrecked aircraft may be stored
in the open for not more than 30 days from the date of the accident.
   (E)   Off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   One parking space shall be required for every three airplanes
stored on the site.
      (2)   All off-street parking shall be paved and constructed to the
standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.207 CEMETERIES.
   Cemeteries may be permitted in certain districts specified in this chapter,
subject to the standards of this chapter and the following special standards.
   (A)   The area to be occupied by the cemetery shall not have more than 51%
of its land area in recorded plots.
   (B)   The continuity of all roads present or planned for adjacent areas
shall be satisfactory resolved to provide safe and prompt access and egress to
and from such areas.
   (C)   All ingress and egress shall be directly to a public road having a
right-of-way of not less than that of a secondary thoroughfare (86 feet) or the
proposed right-of-way of a major thoroughfare on the township’s adopted
thoroughfare plan.
   (D)   All sides of the cemetery shall be screened from any residential view
by providing a continuous and completely obscuring wall or fence, four feet six
inches in height, measured from the surface of the ground. The Planning
Commission may permit a chain-link type fence adequately screened with
deciduous and evergreen material.
   (E)   Approval shall be given contingent on a satisfactory drainage plan
approved by the Township Engineer and the County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.208 CHURCHES AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   Churches and public buildings may be permitted in certain districts
specified in this chapter, subject to the standards of this chapter and the
following special standards.
   (A)   Site requirements.
      (1)   Minimum site shall be three acres on a continuous parcel; and
      (2)   The site shall abut a public road having a right-of-way of not less
than that of a secondary thoroughfare (86 feet) or the proposed right-of-way of
a major thoroughfare on the township’s adopted thoroughfare plan.
   (B)   Yard and placement requirements.
      (1)   Front and rear yard requirements shall be the same as those listed
for the district in which the special land use is requested.
      (2)   Side yard shall be the same as those listed in the requested
district for permitted nonresidential uses.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage shall be the same as for the district in which
the special land use is requested.
   (C)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   A facility without fixed seats or pews shall have one parking space
for every 100 square feet of usable floor area.
      (2)   No off-street parking shall be permitted in the front yard space.
      (3)   All off-street parking shall be paved and constructed to the
standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.209 COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION.
   Commercially used outdoor recreational space for adult or children’s
amusement parks, carnivals, rebound tumbling facilities, miniature golf courses
and golf driving ranges are permitted in the B-2 District subject to the
following special standards.
   (A)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
   (B)   Parking areas shall be provided off the road right-of-way and shall be
fenced with a four foot, six inch wall or fence where adjacent to a residential
district or existing residential use.
   (C)   Children’s amusement parks must be fenced on all sides with a four-
foot, six-inch wall or fence.
   (D)   No loud speaker or public address system shall be used except by the
written consent of the Township Board wherein it is deemed that no public
nuisance or disturbance will be established.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.210 DISPOSAL AREAS.
   Disposal areas and landfills are permitted in AG Districts subject to the
requirements of this chapter and the following special standards.
   (A)   The location of all disposal areas within said districts shall be
sufficiently distant from pre-existing development so as not to be injurious to
public health, safety and welfare, and in no instance shall the operation of
the landfill be setback less than 500 feet from the road right-of-way and from
any residential home, and the side line setback shall be a minimum of 100 feet
from the property line of said licensee for the operation of said landfill.
   (B)   Disposal area activity shall only be allowed as a special land use
activity within zoning districts specified in this chapter and subject to the
provisions of this subchapter. The purpose of these procedures is to provide
for the use of lands and disposal areas and to regulate and control said use
for the preservation of public health, safety and welfare. Disposal areas are
considered to be a temporary use of land only, therefore, the further intent of
those provisions is to assure that such operations are conductive to and result
in the reclamation of the land for other purposes. The requirements of this
section shall be in addition to the requirement of all applicable state laws.
      (1)   Licensing procedures.
         (a)   An application for the approval of a disposal area license shall
be made by an owner of an interest in the land on which the disposal area is to
be located to the Township Clerk. The Township Board is the final authority to
issue the license applied for hereunder after receiving the approval of the
Planning Commission for the special land use. The application shall be
accompanied by information and documents identical to that presented to the
State Department of Public Health as required by state law, and the regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto. Further, each application shall include a
description of existing development within a one-half mile radius of the
proposed disposal area. All applications shall be accompanied by a fee to be
established by the Township Board to defray the costs of processing the same
and to cover engineering and legal expenses.
         (b)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire December 31 of each
year but may be renewed upon payment of an annual fee of $1,200 if the licensee
has complied with all of the requirements of the license issued. The Township
Board may revoke any license upon breach of any condition, safeguard or
requirement provided for in this chapter or in the license issued and the
licensee’s bond would be forfeited. A license shall not be assignable.
         (c)   Each licensee shall submit a corporate surety bond for a
sanitary landfill in an amount equal to $750 per acre of disposal area, but not
less than $5,000. Each bond shall provide assurance for the maintenance of
finished landfill site for a period of five years after the landfill is
completed. Surety bonds for other disposal areas shall be in an amount equal to
0.25% of the construction cost of the facility but shall not be less than
$5,000.
         (d)   This chapter does not prohibit an individual from disposing of
refuse from his or her own household upon his or her own land as long as such
disposal does not create a nuisance or hazard to health. Rubbish accumulated as
a part of the improvement or the planting of privately owned farmland may be
disposed of on the property provided the method used is not injurious to human
life or property or unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life and
property.
         (e)   No license shall be issued until a certification of insurance is
filed with the Township Clerk indemnifying the township in the amount of
$250,000 each person and $500,000 each occurrence, from any claim or loss
incurred by the township as a result of the issuance of this license in the
operation of the landfill pursuant to said license.
      (2)   General requirements for licensing. Where refuse is removed from
premises, to a location other than its point of origin, for disposal or where
refuse is not removed from the premises but disposed at the point of origin in
such quantities as to become of public health concern:
         (a)   Plans and specifications. Refuse disposal facilities shall be
designed in accordance with this subchapter by a registered professional
engineer. Detailed plans, specifications and necessary reports shall be
submitted in triplicate to the Township Planning Commission and the Township
Board for review, approval and file. Alterations or deviations from these plans
shall also be submitted for approval and file;
         (b)   Inspections and evaluation. The Building Inspector shall make
routine inspections and evaluations of solid waste disposal operations. A
written notice of deficiencies, together with recommendations for their
correction, shall be provided to the operator or the appropriate individual,
firm, or corporation thereof responsible for the solid waste disposal
operation.
   (C)   Sanitary landfills shall be governed by the following requirements.
      (1)   Sanitary landfills; design.
         (a)   Maps. The design of the sanitary landfill shall include one or
more topographic maps at a scale of not over 100 feet to the inch with contour
intervals which clearly show the character of the land. These maps and
accompanying data shall indicate the following: the proposed fill area; any
borrow area; access roads; on-site roads; grades for proper drainage of each
lift required and a typical cross-section of lift; special drainage devices if
necessary; fencing; structures on the site; existing and proposed utilities;
and all other pertinent information to indicate clearly the soil
characteristics, water table, orderly development, operation and completion of
the sanitary landfill. A sanitary survey and a land use plan of adjacent areas
may be required.
         (b)   Geology. The geological characteristics of the site shall be
determined by on-site testing or from earlier reliable survey data to indicate
soil conditions, water tables and sub-surface characteristics.
         (c)   Characteristics of cover materials. Cover material shall be of
such character that it can be compacted to provide a tight seal and shall be
free of putrescible materials and large objects.
         (d)   Water pollution and nuisance control. Sanitary landfill
operations shall be so designed and operated that conditions of unlawful
pollution will not be created and injury to ground and surface waters avoided
which might interfere with legitimate water uses. Water filled areas not
directly connected to natural lakes, rivers or streams may be filled with
specific inert materials not detrimental to legitimate water use and which will
not create a nuisance or hazard to health. Special approval of the inert
material to be used in this manner is required in writing from the Township
Board. Such approval shall be filed with the Township Clerk. Inert material
shall not include residue from refuse incinerators, unless evidence,
satisfactory to the Township Board is submitted by the licensee substantiating
that such residue will not create a nuisance or hazard to health. Sand and
gravel shall not be removed below the level established by the Township Board
upon the recommendation of its township engineers to ensure that the water
tables in the area are not affected.
         (e)   Equipment. Adequate numbers, types and sizes of properly
maintained equipment shall be used in operating the landfill in accordance with
good engineering practice. Emergency equipment shall be available on the site
or suitable arrangements made for such equipment from other sources during
equipment breakdown or during peak loads.
      (2)   Sanitary landfills; preparation of the site.
         (a)   On-site roads. On-site roads shall be designed and constructed
so that traffic will flow smoothly and will not be interrupted by ordinary
inclement weather. On-site roads shall be maintained and kept dust free at all
times.
         (b)   Adjacent public roads. Public roads adjacent to said premises,
used for haul routes, must also be maintained and kept dust free. Stop signs
must be posted at the egress road for traffic safety. Street address for the
parcel shall be posted on a sign which can be readily seen and read from the
public right-of-way.
***
         (c)   Fire protection. Suitable measures shall be available to
extinguish accidental fires.
      (3)   Sanitary landfills; operations.
         (a)   Supervision of operations. A landfill operation shall be under
the direction of a responsible individual at all times.
         (b)   Limited access. Access to a sanitary landfill shall be limited
to those times when an attendant is on duty and only to those authorized to use
the site for the disposal of refuse, except as otherwise approved in writing by
the Township Board. Access to the site shall be controlled by a suitable
barrier.
         (c)   Unloading of refuse. Unloading of refuse shall be continuously
supervised.
         (d)   Site maintenance. Measures shall be provided to control dust and
blowing paper. The entire area shall be kept clean and orderly.
         (e)   Spreading and compacting of refuse. Refuse shall be spread so
that it can be compacted in layers not exceeding a depth of two feet of
compacted material. Large and bulky items when not excluded from the site,
shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Building Inspector.
         (f)   Volumes of cells. Volumes of individual cells shall not exceed
the daily quantity of wastes.
         (g)   Daily cover. A compacted layer of at least six inches of
suitable cover material shall be placed on all exposed refuse by the end of
each working day.
         (h)   Mulch and seeding. The application of mulch and seeding shall be
completed as shown on the engineering plans to be submitted with the license.
         (i)   Final cover. A layer of suitable cover material compacted to a
minimum thickness of three feet shall be placed over the entire surface of each
portion of the final lift not later than one week following the placement of
refuse within that portion.
         (j)   Maintenance of cover. All daily cover depths must be continually
maintained and final cover depths shall be maintained for a period of five
years.
         (k)   Hazardous materials including liquids and sewage. Hazardous
materials, including liquids and sewage, shall not be disposed of in a sanitary
landfill. This provision in no way precludes the right of a landfill operator
to exclude any materials.
         (l)   Burning prohibited. No burning shall be permitted at any
sanitary landfill.
         (m)   Salvage. Salvaging, if permitted, shall be organized so that it
will not interfere with prompt sanitary disposal of refuse or create
unsightliness or health hazards. This provision in no way precludes the right
of a landfill operator to exclude any materials.
         (n)   Insect and rodent control. Conditions unfavorable for the
production of insects and rodents shall be maintained by carrying out routine
landfill operations promptly in a systematic manner. Supplemental insect and
rodent control measures shall be instituted wherever necessary. Inspections
shall be made quarterly by the appropriate state agency.
         (o)   Drainage of surface water. The entire site, including the fill
surface, shall be graded and provided with drainage facilities to minimize
runoff onto and into the fill, to prevent erosion or washing of the fill, to
drain off rainwater falling on the fill, and to prevent the collection of
standing water.
         (p)   Completion of landfill. An inspection of the entire site shall
be made by the Building Inspector to determine compliance with the approved
plans and specifications before the earthmoving equipment is removed from the
site. Any necessary corrective work shall be performed before the landfill
project is accepted as completed. Arrangements shall be made for the repair of
all cracked, eroded, and uneven areas in the final cover during the first five
years following completion of the fill.
         (q)   Hours of operation. Disposal areas shall not conduct operations
between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. nor on Sundays or legal holidays.
Other reasonable restriction on hours of operation may be included in or added
to the conditions of individual licenses.
         (r)   Fencing. The entire site shall be completely fenced with a fence
of not less than six feet in height nor squares larger than two square inches
in diameter, preferably a chain link type fence.
   (D)   Control of noise. At no point on the boundary of any nonindustrial
district shall the sound pressure level of any operation exceed the described
levels in the designated octave bands below:
Octave Band in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels
Octave Band in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels
0 to 75                          72
75 to 150                        67
150 to 300                       59
300 to 600                       52
600 to 1,200                     46
1,200 to 2,400                   40
2,400 to 4,800                   34
Above 4,800                      32
 
   (E)   Control of odors. There shall be no emission of odorous matter in such
quantities as to be offensive at lot boundary lines. Any process which may
involve the creation or emission of any odors shall be provided with a
secondary safeguard system so that control will be maintained if the primary
safeguard system should fail.
   (F)   Open dumps. Open dumps shall not be permitted.
   (G)   Other reasonable restrictions. The Township Board may impose such
other reasonable restrictions as conditions to the issuance of the license
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.211 GOLF COURSES.
   Golf courses may be permitted in certain districts specified in this
chapter, subject to the standards of this chapter and the following special
standards.
   (A)   Major accessory uses such as a restaurant and bar shall be housed in a
single building with the club house. Minor accessory uses strictly related to
the operation of the golf course itself, such as maintenance garage and pro
shop or golf shop may be located in separate structures. No structure shall be
located closer than 75 feet from the lot line of any adjacent residential land
and from any existing or proposed public right-of-way.
   (B)   All parking areas shall be paved and constructed in accordance with
the standards of this chapter.
   (C)   All ingress and egress from the site shall be directly onto a major or
secondary thoroughfare.
   (D)   All outdoor lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and arranged so
as to reflect the light away from abutting residential areas.
   (E)   Whenever included, swimming pools shall be provided with a protective
fence not less than six feet in height, and entry shall be provided by means of
a controlled gate or turnstile.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.212 GENERAL HOSPITALS.
   General hospitals may be permitted in certain districts specified in this
chapter, subject to the standards of this chapter and the following special
standards.
   (A)   All such hospitals shall be developed on sites consisting of at least
five acres in area for the first 100 beds or less plus one acre for each
additional 25 beds.
   (B)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting a
major thoroughfare and vehicular ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto said thoroughfare.
   (C)   The site plan shall show that a proper relationship exists between the
abutting thoroughfare and any proposed service roads, driveways and parking
areas to encourage pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety.
   (D)   All the development features including the principal building and any
accessory buildings, open spaces and all service roads, driveways and parking
areas are so located and related to minimize the possibility of any adverse
effects upon adjacent property.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.213 KENNELS.
   Commercial kennels (as defined in §
153.002 of this chapter) and kennels (as defined and regulated by the county
animal control and protection ordinance, as amended), may be permitted as a
special land use in the AG Agricultural Districts and in the SF Single-Family
Rural Residential Districts subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Site requirements.
      (1)   The minimum site size is ten acres.
      (2)   The kennel must be accessory to an owner-occupied dwelling on the
same parcel.
      (3)   The subject property must be so located as not to hinder the
natural and presumed residential development of the area.
   (B)   Yard and placement requirements.
      (1)   Front yard setback: a minimum of 250 feet from the center of the
road.
      (2)   Side yard setbacks: a minimum of 150 feet from the property line.
      (3)   Rear yard setback: a minimum of 250 feet from the rear property
line.
   (C)   Off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   A minimum of five parking spaces shall be distinctly for the kennel
use.
      (2)   The parking area shall be screened from view of any abutting
residential use by one or more of the means cited under §
153.177(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5).
      (3)   Required parking must be improved in accordance with the standards
of §
153.170.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may require adequate means of noise
control, including but not limited to buffering, use of berms, inside night
time (also potentially day time) housing of animals, and any other reasonable
means to ensure adequate protection and enjoyment of neighboring properties.
Failure by the developer of a kennel to demonstrate in his or her proposal the
adequate provision of means to control noise shall be grounds to deny special
land use approval.
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. all animals are to be
confined to a sound proof and odor proof building that is completely closed and
climate controlled. During all other hours, the animals may be exercised
outdoors.
      (3)   Noise control shall be subject to §
153.172(E).
      (4)   Odor control shall be subject to §
153.172(F).
      (5)   Waste disposal shall be subject to §
153.172(G).
      (6)   Outdoor exercise runs require at least two of the following three
provisions:
         (a)   Individual pens separated by privacy panels to prevent dogs from
seeing one another;
         (b)   A yard completely enclosed by an obscuring six-foot fence; and/
or
         (c)   A second yard enclosed by a six-foot chain link fence.
   (E)   Periodic inspections. The Zoning Administrator may make periodic
inspections to ensure that the originally approved special land use and site
plan review requirements are being complied with. Failure to comply with
originally approved requirements may provide grounds for citation of violation
under §
153.999. If a violation is discovered, the Zoning Administrator shall provide a
written notice of the violation(s) and offer a reasonable time period for
remedy by the owner, not to exceed 90 days. If in the judgment of the Zoning
Administrator, there have been repeated or serious violations, he or she may
proceed with enforcement under §
153.999 without the remedy period.
   (F)   Modification of conditions. The owner of a property with an existing
approved kennel special land use permit (as with any special land use) may seek
appropriate modification of any conditions of the special land use permit,
through the same process by which the original special land use was approved.
   (G)   County kennel license. The applicant shall obtain a county kennel
license within one year after site plan approval and before opening of use, and
thereafter a county kennel license shall be maintained in accordance with the
originally approved special land use.
   (H)   Conflicting provisions. In cases where there is a conflict between any
provision of this chapter and the county animal control and protection
ordinance, the more stringent provision shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 30, passed 2-9-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.214 SHOOTING RANGES, GUN CLUBS AND LARGE SCALE GAMING PRESERVES.
   Shooting ranges, gun clubs and similar uses, such as large scale game
preserves, may be permitted subject to the following.
   (A)   The minimum site size shall be 80 acres with a minimum width of 1,320
feet.
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided in the ratio of one space for
each three users at capacity. All parking areas shall be kept dust-free at all
times so as not to become a nuisance to adjoining properties.
   (C)   All parking areas shall be screened from view of an adjoining
residential district or use by either a greenbelt, obscuring fence or a masonry
wall, whichever is determined by the Planning Commission to be the most
appropriate and effective.
   (D)   The hours when shooting is permitted shall be limited from 9:00 a.m.
to 9:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 12 noon to 6:00 p.m. Sundays. The
Planning Commission may apply more restrictive hours where protection for
adjoining residents is necessary.
   (E)   The design of the facility shall clearly show that safety of persons
on and off the site is guaranteed. This shall mean that no projectile of any
kind may be permitted to leave the site. Unless this safety requirement is
clearly indicated by the design plans, a permit shall not be issued. The design
of all ranges shall incorporate the recommended safety features.
   (F)   The firing range shall be fenced on all sides except the firing line,
by a fence no less than eight feet in height. Such fence shall be either of a
chain-link type or of board construction sufficient to prevent persons from
passing over or through the fence.
   (G)   The firing line or other area from which firearms are discharged shall
be located no closer than 150 feet from any property line or road right-of-way,
nor closer than 500 feet from any existing residential structure other than
those on the premise.
   (H)   Game and hunting preserves shall be completely fenced to prevent
participants from trespassing on adjoining properties. Signs warning
participants not to cross the fence shall be placed every 200 feet along its
perimeter. Failure to follow this requirement shall be grounds for immediate
revocation of the applicant’s special land use permit.
   (I)   All development features including the principal building shall be
designed and arranged to minimize the possibility of any adverse effect upon
adjacent property.
   (J)   No activity shall take place within 30 feet of the perimeter of the
recreational area. All such activities shall be screened from abutting
residentially-zoned property with a greenbelt, obscuring fence or masonry wall,
whichever is determined by the Planning Commission to be the most appropriate
and effective.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.215 MINING AND EXTRACTION.
   Soil, sand, clay, gravel, topsoil or similar removal operations may be
permitted in certain districts specified in this chapter, subject to the
standards of this chapter and the following special standards.
   (A)   Permit required. Where sand, gravel, topsoil or other substances are
proposed to be removed from the site where found to another site, an annual
operating permit is required to be obtained from the Township Board, after
approval of the special use by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Application for permit. The following information must be submitted
as a part of the special land use request, for use by the Township Board in
determining whether an operating permit should be issued:
         (a)   Names and addresses of parties of interest in said premises
setting forth their legal interest in said premises;
         (b)   Full legal description of the premises wherein operations are
proposed;
         (c)   Detailed statement as to method of operation, such as wet or dry
method, what type of machinery or equipment will be used and estimated period
of time that such operation will cover;
         (d)   Detailed statement as to exactly what type of deposit is
proposed to be extracted;
         (e)   Proposed method of filling excavation where quarrying results in
extensive under-surface excavation; and
         (f)   Map prepared by a registered civil engineer or surveyor, at a
scale of not more than 200 feet to the inch of the excavation area, and real
property within one-half mile of such area with the names of the owners of
record of such property, all residences and commercial establishments with such
area and contour lines at not more than five-foot intervals. Such owner shall
also present a map showing the proposed contours to which the excavation area
would be established upon completion of the excavation operations.
      (2)   Permit fees. The sum established by resolution of the Township
Board shall accompany the application for a mining and extraction permit. Said
sum is to be used to defray the cost of engineering services, investigation,
publication charges and other miscellaneous administrative expenses occasioned
by processing such application. Permits issued by the Township Board shall be
for a period of one year expiring December 31 each year, and such permits may
be renewed by the payment of an annual inspection fee established by resolution
of the Township Board. Such permits shall be renewed as herein provided for so
long as the permittee complies with all of the provisions of this chapter or
other conditions of this permit.
      (3)   Permits. After reviewing all of the information submitted by the
applicant and such other information as may be in the hands of the Township
Board, said Board shall at a regular meeting determine whether or not a permit
will be issued. The permit shall be issued in the event the Township Board
shall determine that the issuance of the permit would not detrimentally affect
the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of citizens of the
township.
   (B)   Required conditions. The following requirements shall be mandatory.
      (1)   Pit operations.
         (a)   Where any excavation in excess of five feet deep will result
from such operations, the applicant shall erect a fence completely surrounding
the portion of the site where the excavation extends, said fence to be not less
than five feet in height complete with gates, which gates shall be kept locked
when operations are not being carried on.
         (b)   All interior roads used in connection with said excavation site
shall be kept dust free by hardtopping with cement or bituminous substance. All
ingress and egress to the site shall be directly onto a public road designated
as a major or secondary thoroughfare on the township’s adopted thoroughfare
plan and having a paved surface suitable for carrying Class A loadings on a
year-round basis. Weights for Class A loadings shall be as defined by the
County Weighmaster.
         (c)   The slopes of the banks of the excavation shall in no event
exceed a minimum of seven feet to one foot (seven feet horizontal to one foot
vertical) and where ponded water results from the operation, this slope must be
maintained and extended into the water to a depth of five feet.
         (d)   Where quarrying operations result in a body of water, the owner
or operator shall place appropriate “Keep Out - Danger” signs around said
premises not more than 200 feet apart. In order to protect water wells and the
water supply of the township, the pumping or draining of water from such
quarrying operations is absolutely prohibited. A drag line or other method of
quarrying approved by the Township Board shall be followed.
         (e)   No cut or excavation shall be made closer than 50 feet from the
nearest street or highway right-of-way line nor nearer than 50 feet to the
nearest property line; provided however, that the Planning Commission may
prescribe more strict requirements in order to give sublateral support to
surrounding property where soil or geographic conditions warrant it.
      (2)   Regulations for stripping.
         (a)   No soil, sand, gravel, clay or similar materials shall be
removed below a point six inches above the mean elevation of the center line of
the nearest existing or proposed street or road established or approved by the
County Road Commission, except as required for the installation of utilities
and payments.
         (b)   No soil, sand, clay, gravel or similar materials shall be
removed in such manner as to cause water to collect or to result in a place of
danger or a menace to the public health. The premises shall at all times be
graded so that surface water drainage is not interfered with.
         (c)   Sufficient topsoil shall be stockpiled on said site so that the
entire site, when stripping operations are completed, may be recovered with a
minimum of four inches of topsoil and the replacement of such topsoil shall be
made immediately following the termination of the stripping operations. In the
event, however, that such stripping operations continue over a period of time
greater than 30 days, the operator shall replace the stored topsoil over the
stripped areas as he or she progresses. In order to stabilize the replaced
topsoil, the areas shall be seeded with an appropriate grass cover as
replacement of topsoil progresses.
   (C)   Surety bond. The Township Board shall, to ensure strict compliance
with any regulations contained in this section or required as a condition of
the issuance of a permit either for mining or topsoil stripping, require the
permitee to furnish a surety bond executed by reputable surety company
authorized to do business in the state in an amount determined by the Township
Board to be reasonably necessary to ensure compliance hereunder. In fixing the
amount of such surety bond, the Township Board shall take into account the size
and scope of the proposed quarry, probable cost of rehabilitating the premises
upon default of the operator, estimated expense to compel operator to comply by
court decree, and such other factors and conditions as might be relevant in
determining the sum reasonable in the light of all facts and circumstances
surrounding each application.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.216 VEHICLE CONVENIENCE STATIONS.
   Vehicle convenience stations may be permitted in certain districts specified
in this chapter subject to the following.
   (A)   Retail gasoline sales and convenience commercial facilities (no
vehicle repair).
      (1)   All structures, including canopies, shall conform to the setback
provisions in §
153.150 in the Schedule of District Regulations.
      (2)   All retail sales activity, other than gasoline sales, shall be
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed structure. No outside storage
of any product or material is permitted.
      (3)   All lighting shall be noted on the site plan and shielded downward
and away from adjacent properties and rights-of-way. All lighting shall be
designed to prevent glare from negatively impacting adjacent properties or
rights-of-way.
      (4)   There shall be no storage of vehicles on the site, including
wreckers or other service vehicles.
      (5)   A masonry wall of face brick or poured concrete with brick pattern
on both sides, shall be located on all property lines which abut any
residential district. In addition, a greenbelt shall be installed adjacent to
the required wall. The wall and greenbelt shall be constructed in accordance
with the criteria in §§
153.173 and
153.177. Where the parcel abuts any other district the screening and
landscaping options in §
153.177 shall be applied by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   There shall be no loudspeaker or public address system other than
individual intercom systems for each pump.
      (7)   Primary ingress/egress shall be off of a major or secondary
thoroughfare. Secondary ingress/egress on any residential street shall be
designed to reduce negative impact on adjacent residential areas. On corner
sites, ingress and egress drives shall be located as distant as possible from
the intersection, taking into consideration the location of adjacent drives and
uses. Drives shall be limited to one per adjacent road unless it is clearly
demonstrated by the applicant, after submittal of a traffic impact study, that
additional access is necessary for safety reasons.
      (8)   All trash storage areas shall be screened from view as approved by
the Planning Commission.
      (9)   The location, size and type of all above-ground and underground
storage tanks and piping shall be noted on the site plan. All tanks shall have
appropriate secondary containment and leak detection which shall be noted on
the site plan. All tanks shall be registered and otherwise comply with all
state and local codes.
   (B)   Retail gasoline sales with limited repair facilities.
      (1)   Compliance with the provisions outlined in Section 1402A and 1403
is required.
      (2)   No outdoor storage or parking of wreckers or other service vehicles
is permitted.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.217 GROUP DAY CARE HOMES AND GROUP DAY CARE FACILITIES.
   Group day care homes and group day care facilities may be permitted in
certain districts specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   All such uses shall provide adequate drop-off and waiting spaces so
that vehicles are not standing or queuing in a public right-of-way or block
ingress to the site.
   (B)   All outdoor recreation or play areas shall be enclosed by a minimum
four-foot high chain link fence.
   (C)   The site shall contain a minimum of 150 square feet of outdoor play
area for each child and shall not be less than 2,500 square feet in total.
   (D)   The site layout shall be designed to ensure pedestrian safety by
separating play areas and drop-off/pick-up points from parking and driveways.
   (E)   Outdoor play areas shall be located to minimize the impact of noise on
adjacent residential property. The Planning Commission may require screening,
buffering and locational modifications to the proposed site plan to minimize
impacts on adjacent residential property.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.218 CONVALESCENT OR REST HOME, HOME FOR THE AGED.
   A convalescent or rest home, or home for the aged or physically handicapped
is permitted in certain districts as specified in this chapter subject to
requirements of this chapter and the following special standards.
   (A)   Site requirements.
      (1)   All ingress and egress shall be directly to a public road having a
right-of-way of not less than that of a secondary thoroughfare (86 feet) or the
proposed right-of-way of a major thoroughfare on the township’s adopted
thoroughfare plan.
      (2)   The maximum extent of development shall not exceed 30 beds per
acre.
   (B)   Yard and placement requirements. No building other than a structure
for strictly residential purposes shall be closer than 60 feet to any property
line.
   (C)   Off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   There shall be one parking space provided for each two beds and
every two staff members.
      (2)   All off-street parking shall be paved and constructed to the
standards shown in §§
153.165 through
153.191.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.219 EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
   Educational institutions including pre-schools, elementary, middle and high
schools, colleges, universities and other such institutions of higher learning
for profit and non-profit, offering courses in general, technical, or religious
education may be permitted in certain districts specified in this chapter,
subject to the following.
   (A)   All ingress and egress from said site shall be directly onto a major
or secondary thoroughfare.
   (B)   No building shall be closer than 100 feet to any property line and/or
existing or proposed public right-of-way.
   (C)   All service and storage areas shall be screened from view by a land
form buffer, buffer strip or screen fence/wall and adjacent greenbelt designed
and planted in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (D)   All areas for student and staff parking shall be setback at least 75
feet from an abutting residential district or residential use and shall be
screened from view by a land form buffer, buffer strip or screen fence/wall and
adjacent greenbelt designed and planted in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (E)   Minimum parcel site shall be five acres.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.220 OUTDOOR SALES LOTS.
   Outdoor sales lots for automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, mobile homes
and similar uses may be permitted in certain districts specified in this
chapter subject to the following.
   (A)   An outdoor lighting plan shall specify the type of fixtures to be
used, light intensity and method of shielding the fixtures so that light does
not project onto adjoining properties or on any public or private street or
right-of-way. The site plan shall detail this information.
   (B)   There shall be no festoon signs or bare light bulbs permitted.
   (C)   No vehicles or merchandise for sale shall be displayed within any
required greenbelts, landform buffers, buffer strips or other landscape or open
space area.
   (D)   Loudspeakers or public address systems are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.221 UTILITY AND PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITIES.
   Public utilities buildings including telephone exchange buildings and
repeater stations, electric transformer substations and stations and gas
regulator stations (all without storage yards) when operations requirements
necessitate the locating within the district in order to serve the immediate
area are permitted in certain districts as permitted within this chapter
subject to the requirements of this chapter and the following special
conditions.
   (A)   All such uses shall be completely enclosed and the site fenced with a
suitable chain link fence not less than four feet in height.
   (B)   The entire site shall be landscaped according to the standards of §§
153.165 through
153.191 and the plant materials properly maintained in a healthy and growing
condition.
   (C)   All buildings constructed shall be so designed that they are
architecturally compatible with surrounding buildings and dwellings.
   (D)   All parking and driveway areas shall be paved and constructed
according to the standards of §§
153.165 through
153.191.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.222 YARD WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITIES.
   Yard waste composting facilities, those that manage the biological
decomposition of organic matter under controlled, aerobic conditions, may be
permitted in certain districts specified in this chapter, subject to the
standards of this chapter and the following special standards.
   (A)   Site location and design.
      (1)   Because of the level of truck traffic associated with this use, all
such uses shall be located on a paved public road capable of carrying Class A
loadings, as defined by the County Weighmaster, on a year-round basis.
      (2)   Dust shall be controlled on all internal roads and operation areas
at all times.
      (3)   The site shall be level and well-drained.
      (4)   If the site abuts property shown as residential on the zoning map
or Master Plan, a buffer zone shall be maintained where no composting, storage,
transfer or loading activities will take place equal to 500 feet from existing
residences and 50 feet from adjoining property lines. All buffer areas shall be
maintained as vegetative strips to facilitate the filtration of pollutants from
stormwater runoff.
      (5)   All site access roads or drives and all areas for employee parking
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete. Internal haul roads may be unpaved.
      (6)   The portion of the compost site visible from a public street shall
be screened from public view by a combination berm/landscaped buffer or other
method approved by the Planning Commission.
      (7)   Adequate parking shall be provided for all employees and visitors.
A minimum of four paved, off-street parking spaces shall be provided on-site.
      (8)   In order to contain windblown debris, chain link fencing shall be
installed and maintained around all areas of the site which are utilized in any
phase of the composting process in which bags or portions of bags are present.
The Planning Commission shall determine the appropriate location and height of
required fencing during site plan review after consideration of the site
characteristics, proposed design, adjacent land uses, and prevailing wind
patterns.
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   Access to the site shall be controlled to prevent unauthorized
dumping during non-business hours. The operator shall establish a procedure and
mechanism for proper disposal of non-yard wastes at an approved sanitary
landfill.
      (2)   Only yard wastes shall be composted at such facilities, typically
including leaves, grass clippings, brush and tree or shrub trimmings. All yard
waste must be brought to the site loose or in biodegradable bags with a
cornstarch or similar base designed to degrade rapidly under aerobic
conditions. All bags brought to the site shall be broken up and turned into
compost windrows within five days of delivery to the site. In no instance shall
non-degradable plastic bags be placed into the windrows.
      (3)   The decomposition process shall be properly managed and maintained
in the aerobic condition to prevent all unnecessary odors. Towards this end,
the temperature of compost piles shall be monitored regularly, and all compost
piles shall be turned when the internal temperature drops below 120°F.
      (4)   Ponded water shall not be permitted to collect on a yard waste
composting site. An engineering plan for collection, retention and drainage of
stormwater shall be provided for review and approval. Vegetation filtration of
runoff prior to discharge off-site shall be accomplished by use of a 50-foot
wide (minimum) perimeter strip/swale of grass, or similar measure. Any direct
discharge to a water body may require a State Department of Natural Resources
permit.
      (5)   The operator shall provide sufficient equipment to properly manage
the composting process. As a minimum, this shall include a front end loader or
similar machinery for loading and unloading; a window machine for turning and
aeration operations; a shredder for reducing new material to a smaller particle
size for faster decomposition; a source of water or watering trucks for dust
control and proper moisture content in windrows; and a screen to improve the
quality and marketability of the final product.
      (6)   The volume of yard wastes handled by the facility shall not exceed
7,000 cubic yards of incoming yard wastes per acre of active composting area
on-site, exclusive of access roads, service areas, parking areas, required
buffer zones and similar areas.
      (7)   The operator shall provide a name, address and phone number of the
person responsible for operation of the site and who is also responsible for
correcting all operational problems that may result in complaints being made to
the township.
      (8)   Treated yard wastes shall be actively rotated in an aerobic
condition. Wastes shall not be allowed to accumulate for longer than three
years before being finished and removed from the site.
      (9)   The operator shall provide plans showing all equipment maintenance
and storage areas. Plans shall show the location of all fuel storage areas.
Plans shall show the location of all fuel storage facilities and shall detail
primary and secondary containment of all hazardous materials, including
product-tight containers for primary containment. Secondary containment
facilities shall be adequate to accept the full volume of the hazardous
materials stored in the primary container, in the event of a leak or spill.
      (10)   The applicant shall provide a plan for the removal of unmarketable
compost.
      (11)   An annual inspection/permit fee for all yard waste composting
facilities established by resolution of the Township Board, shall be paid by
the owner of the facility.
      (12)   Copies of all State Department of Natural Resources applications/
permits, if required, shall be provided to the Planning Commission as part of
the application package.
      (13)   The use must conform with the performance standards in §
153.172.
      (14)   The operator shall provide surety in the form of cash, irrevocable
letter of credit or other surety acceptable to the Township Board to guarantee
performance as required by this chapter and provide for restoration of the site
upon default of the operator. The amount of the bond shall be set from time to
time by resolution of the Township Board on a per acre basis.
      (15)   The operator understands and agrees that failure to maintain and
operate the site in a responsible manner that minimizes the potential for
adverse impacts on neighboring properties shall constitute grounds for
enforcement action by the Township Board.
   (C)   Additional requirements. In addition to the requirements set forth in
this section, all yard waste composting facilities shall meet the requirements
of § 11521 of part 115 of the State Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 27, passed 12-15-2010) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.223 SINGLE-FAMILY ACCESSORY APARTMENTS.
   One accessory apartment may be permitted in a single-family dwelling unit,
subject to the following.
   (A)   The dwelling unit must be situated on a lot or parcel which is in
conformance with the minimum requirements of §
153.150.
   (B)   Either the principal unit or the accessory apartment must be owner-
occupied.
   (C)   The Health Department shall certify that the on-site septic system is
properly designed to handle the anticipated additional load.
   (D)   Exterior modifications to the dwelling shall not change the overall
single-family character of the dwelling unit or the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   Only one accessory apartment shall be permitted per lot and per
single-family dwelling.
   (F)   One additional parking space shall be provided, exclusive of the
driveway, in the side or rear yard only.
   (G)   Only one entrance to the building shall face the street upon which the
dwelling is located.
   (H)   An accessory apartment shall be a minimum 420 square feet and shall
not exceed 35% of the total floor area of the principal unit and the accessory
apartment combined. This shall be construed as prohibiting an accessory
apartment in a single-family dwelling unit with a total floor area of less than
1,200 square feet.
   (I)   No accessory apartment shall include more than two bedrooms or exceed
650 square feet.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.224 VEHICLE SERVICE CENTERS AND REPAIR GARAGES.
   Vehicle service centers may be permitted in certain districts specified in
this chapter subject to the following.
   (A)   The use shall be completely enclosed within a building.
   (B)   No vehicles awaiting repair shall remain on-site for more than 36
hours.
   (C)   A masonry wall of face brick or poured concrete with brick pattern on
both sides shall be located on all property lines which abut any residential
district. In addition, a greenbelt shall be installed adjacent to the required
wall. The wall and greenbelt shall be constructed in accordance with the
criteria in §
153.177. Where the parcel abuts any other district, the screening and
landscaping options in §
153.177 shall be applied by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   All trash storage areas shall be screened from view as approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Management plans shall be maintained for the collection, storage and
recycling or proper disposal of all new, used or waste automotive fluids
resulting from repair or service operations.
   (F)   The location, size and type of all above-ground and underground
storage tanks and piping shall be noted on the site plan. All tanks shall have
appropriate secondary containment and leak detection which shall be noted on
the site plan. All tanks shall be registered and otherwise comply with all
state and local codes.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.225 DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.
   Because of the auto-oriented character of drive-through facilities and
similar establishments, they shall be permitted in certain districts specified
in this chapter, provided the following conditions are met.
   (A)   A building setback of at least 50 feet from the existing or proposed
future street right-of-way (whichever is greater) shall be maintained.
   (B)   Driveways shall be located at least 75 feet from the intersection of
any two street right-of-way lines or any abutting residential district.
   (C)   An outdoor lighting plan shall specify the type of fixtures to be
used, light intensity and method of shielding the fixtures so that light does
not project onto adjoining properties or any public or private street or public
right-of-way. The site plan shall detail this information.
   (D)   All drive-through lanes and vehicles queuing areas shall be screened
from adjacent properties by a landform buffer, buffer strip or screen fence/
wall and adjacent greenbelt designed and planted in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (E)   All parking areas shall be screened from adjoining properties by
either a land form buffer, buffer strip, or screen fence/wall and adjacent
greenbelt designed and planted in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may require additional screening in
conformance with §§
153.173 and
153.177 where the Planning Commission determines such screening is necessary to
reduce the impact of the proposed drive-through use on adjacent properties or
rights-of-way.
   (G)   All vehicle maneuvering and queuing areas shall be designed to
accommodate all vehicles on-site. No right-of-way may be utilized for the
stacking or maneuvering of vehicles in conjunction with the drive-through
facility.
   (H)   All speakers and communication systems shall be of an intercom nature
and shall be described in writing as a part of the application for special land
use approval. The site plan shall detail the location of all speakers and
communication system components. All such systems shall be designed to restrict
volume levels to the minimum necessary to service the immediate area of
intended communication and shall not permit communications to be audible at the
property line. The Planning Commission may require limitations on hours of
operation, additional buffering or redesign of any communication system to
eliminate impact on adjacent property. No public address systems are permitted.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.226 HOTELS AND MOTELS.
   Hotels and motels may be permitted in certain districts specified in this
chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   All vehicular driveways shall be located onto a major or secondary
thoroughfare. All drives shall be a minimum 50 feet from any district which
permits residential use.
   (B)   The minimum site size shall be two acres.
   (C)   All buildings shall be set back at least 50 feet from all property
lines.
   (D)   All parking areas shall be setback a minimum 50 feet from all property
lines. All parking areas shall be screened from adjoining properties by either
a landform buffer, buffer strip, or screen fence/wall and adjacent greenbelt
designed and planted in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (E)   Any outdoor recreation areas for the use of overnight guests shall be
detailed on the site plan and shall be designed to minimize the visual and
noise impacts of the outdoor activity on adjacent property. All such areas
shall be accessible to only overnight guests.
   (F)   All service and storage areas for maintenance equipment shall be
screened from view by a landform buffer, buffer strip or screen fence/wall and
adjacent greenbelt designed and planted in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (G)   The Planning Commission may require additional screening, buffering or
landscaping along any property line where the Planning Commission determines
such additional improvements would be necessary to reduce the impact on
adjoining properties. Said screening, buffering or landscaping shall be in
accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.227 PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND USES WITH OUTDOOR STORAGE YARDS.
   Public buildings and uses with outdoor storage yards may be permitted in
certain districts specified in this chapter subject to the following.
   (A)   Outdoor storage yards shall be accessory to the principal public
building or use on the same site.
   (B)   The site shall have all access from a major or secondary thoroughfare.
   (C)   Compliance with all provisions of §
153.231, Outdoor Storage Yards, shall be required.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.228 SALVAGE/RECYCLING YARDS.
   Salvage/recycling yards (junkyards) may be permitted in certain districts as
specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   The site shall be designed in conformance with the performance
standards in §
153.172 to minimize negative impact on the site and adjacent properties.
   (B)   Outdoor trash storage areas shall be screened. All trash and refuse
shall be stored within said enclosure. Compactors which are solely accessed
directly from the interior of a building and which have no exterior access
points do not require screening.
   (C)   All loading/truck service areas shall be located entirely within the
boundaries of the proposed site and shall be designed to minimize negative
impact on adjoining properties and rights-of-way. No stacking, queuing or
maneuvering of delivery or service vehicles shall occur within a right-of-way
or road. All service, loading and vehicular use areas shall be paved with
asphalt or concrete.
   (D)   The site plan shall detail the location of all outdoor storage areas,
storage rack locations, type of material or vehicle stored and height of
materials or vehicles stored.
   (E)   A minimum 20-foot wide land form buffer or buffer strip shall be
provided along all property lines in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177. In addition, a minimum six-foot high screen wall or fence wall shall
be provided behind the require land form buffer or buffer strip wherever the
site abuts a district which permits single-family residential uses or any
public or private right-of-way. The Planning Commission may require said
screening wall/fence to be increased in height to a maximum of eight feet where
necessary to adequately screen stored materials. The Planning Commission may
require additional landscaping and screening where the Planning Commission
finds that it is necessary to minimize the impact on adjacent properties.
   (F)   Materials of vehicles shall not be located within 50 feet of any
property line.
   (G)   Where the activity involves any hazardous substances or polluting
materials all use areas shall be designed to prevent any release of the
materials into the environment. At a minimum, this shall include full
conformance with the groundwater protection standards detailed in §
153.180.
   (H)   All lighting shall be shielded downward and away from adjacent
properties.
   (I)   The Planning Commission shall review the special approval one year
from the date of Planning Commission approval to review the facility operation.
In reviewing the special approval, the Planning Commission shall consult the
Zoning Administrator, along with any public comment at the review hearing,
which shall form the basis for any subsequent decision by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission may require that additional measures to be
taken by the owner to address any operational problems which do not comply with
the standards of this chapter or conditions of the Planning Commission’s
special land use approval and permit.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.229 MOTOR FREIGHT AND TRUCK TERMINALS.
   Motor freight and truck terminals may be permitted in certain districts, as
specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   The site shall be designed to minimize negative impact on adjacent
properties with regard to noise, glare, dust or fumes.
   (B)   All loading/truck service areas shall be located in compliance with
the following.
      (1)   Truck bays shall be located only on the side or rear of buildings.
      (2)   All truck loading areas shall be screened from adjacent properties
and rights-of-way by a land from buffer, buffer strip or screen wall/fence and
adjacent greenbelt in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177. The Planning Commission may require additional screening or
landscaping where the Planning Commission finds it necessary to minimize the
impact of the facility on adjacent properties and rights-of-way.
      (3)   A minimum 50-foot setback shall be maintained between any loading
area and any property line.
   (C)   Site lighting shall be designed and regulated in accordance with §
153.175. All lighting shall be detailed in the site plan and designed to
prevent glare in adjacent properties.
   (D)   Proposed maintenance facilities, including fueling stations, shall be
noted on the site plan.
   (E)   Loudspeakers or public address systems are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.230 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   Wireless communication facilities may be permitted in certain districts, as
specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   Standards and conditions applicable to all commercial broadcast and
wireless communication facilities.
      (1)   Facilities shall not be demonstrably injurious or otherwise
detrimental to the public safety and welfare.
      (2)   Facilities shall be located and designed to be harmonious with the
surrounding areas. The use of monopole towers shall be required unless the
applicant demonstrates that monopole towers are not feasible for the proposed
use.
      (3)   Wireless communication facilities shall comply with applicable
federal and state standards relative to the environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions.
      (4)   Applicants shall demonstrate a justification for the proposed
height of the structures and an evaluation of alternative designs which might
result in lower height.
      (5)   The following additional standards shall be met.
         (a)   The maximum height of the support structure and antenna shall be
the minimum height demonstrated to be necessary for reasonable communication by
the applicant (and by other entities to colocate on the structure). Accessory
buildings shall be limited to the maximum height for accessory structures
within the respective district.
         (b)   The setback of the support structure from any property line and
existing or proposed road right-of-way line shall be at least the height of the
higher point of the support structure. Multiple towers on the same parcel or
adjoining parcels shall each meet the above criteria and be separated from any
other tower for a distance at least equal to the height of the tallest tower.
         (c)   There shall be unobstructed access to the facility for
operation, maintenance, repair and inspection (may be provided by an easement).
         (d)   The division of property for the purpose of locating a wireless
communication facility is prohibited unless all zoning requirements and
conditions are met.
         (e)   Rooftop wireless communication facilities shall be
architecturally compatible with the principal building.
         (f)   The Planning Commission may regulate the color of the support
structure and all accessory buildings to minimize distraction, maximize
aesthetic appearance, and ensure compatibility with surroundings, subject to
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration.
         (g)   Support structures shall be constructed in accordance with
applicable building codes. A soils report from a geotechnical engineer,
licensed in the state, shall be submitted. This report shall include soil
borings and confirmation of the suitability of soils for the proposed use.
Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Communication Commission and State
Aeronautics Commission requirements shall be noted.
         (h)   A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement,
shall be presented and approved as part of the site plan for the proposed
facility.
         (i)   A landform buffer, buffer strip or screen wall and adjacent
greenbelt shall be provided in accordance with §§
153.173 and
153.177. The Planning Commission, after considering the type, size and height
of all equipment being proposed, may require additional landscaping or
screening where the Planning Commission determines it is necessary to minimize
the impact on adjacent properties.
         (j)   Where employees will be stationed at the facility on a permanent
or intermittent basis, adequate off-street parking shall be constructed with an
asphalt or concrete surface in conformance with §
153.169.
         (k)   There shall be no outdoor storage of equipment and/or materials
which are not necessary for daily operations, except those which are necessary
for safety or emergency repairs at that particular site.
      (6)   The application shall include a certification by a state licensed
professional engineer regarding the manner in which the proposed structure will
fall.
      (7)   The application shall include a description of security to be
posted at the time of receiving a building permit to ensure removal of the
facility when it has been abandoned or is no longer needed. The security shall
be in the form of cash, surety bond, letter of credit or an agreement in a form
approved by the Township Attorney and recordable at the Register of Deeds,
establishing a promise of the applicant and owner of the property to remove the
facility in a timely manner as required under this section of the chapter. The
applicant and owner shall be responsible for the payment of any costs and
attorneys fees incurred by the township in securing removal.
      (8)   The application shall include a map showing existing and known
proposed wireless communication facilities within the township and areas
surrounding the township, if the information is on file with the township, the
applicant shall update as needed. Any such information which is trade secret
and/or other confidential commercial information may be submitted with a
request for confidentiality in connection with the development of governmental
policy. This chapter shall serve as the promise to maintain confidentiality to
the extent permitted by law. The request for confidentiality must be made in
writing.
      (9)   The applicant shall provide the name, address and phone number of
the person to contact for all engineering, maintenance and other notice
purposes. This information shall be continuously updated while the facility is
on the premises.
   (B)   Standards and conditions applicable to special land uses. In addition
to the provisions in division (A) above, all wireless communication facilities
which require special land use approval shall conform with the following.
      (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate the need for the proposed facility
to be located as proposed based upon the presence of one or more of the
following factors:
         (a)   Proximity to major thoroughfares;
         (b)   Population concentrations;
         (c)   Business centers;
         (d)   Signal interference;
         (e)   Topography; and/or
         (f)   Other specifically identified reason(s) creating facility need.
      (2)   The proposal shall be reviewed in conformity with the colocation
requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   Requirements for colocation.
      (1)   A permit for the construction and use of a new wireless
communication facility shall not be granted unless and until the applicant
demonstrates that colocation is not feasible.
      (2)   All new and modified wireless communication facilities shall be
designed and constructed so as to accommodate colocation. At a minimum, all new
wireless communication facilities shall be designed to accommodate three users.
      (3)   The policy of the township is for colocation. Thus, if a party who
owns or otherwise controls a wireless communication facility shall fail or
refuse to alter a structure so as to accommodate a proposed and otherwise
feasible coiocation, such facility shall be deemed to be a nonconforming
structure and use.
      (4)   If a party who owns or otherwise controls a wireless communication
facility shall fail or refuse to permit a feasible colocation, and this
requires the construction and/or use of a new wireless communication facility,
the party failing or refusing to permit a feasible coiocation shall be deemed
to be in direct violation and contradiction of the policy, intent and purpose
of the township and consequently such party shall take responsibility for the
violation, and shall be prohibited from receiving approval for a new wireless
communication support structure within the township for a period of five years
from the date of the failure or refusal to permit the colocation. Applicants to
the Zoning Board of Appeals regarding this provision must demonstrate that
enforcement of the five-year prohibition would unreasonably discriminate among
providers of functionally equivalent wireless communication services, or would
have the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless communication
services.
      (5)   Incentive application for colocation of a new wireless
communication.
   (D)   Removal.
      (1)   A condition of every approval of a wireless communication facility
shall be adequate provision for removal of all or part of the facility by users
and owners upon the occurrence of one or more of the following events:
         (a)   When the facility has not been used for 180 days or more. For
purposes of this section, the removal of antennas or other equipment from the
facility, or the cessation of operations (transmission and/or reception of
radio signals) shall be considered as the beginning of a period of nonuse; and/
or
         (b)   Six months after new technology is available at reasonable cost,
as determined by the Planning Commission, which permits the operation of the
communication system without the requirement of the support structure.
      (2)   The situations in which removal of a facility is required, as set
forth in division (D)(1) above, may be applied and limited to portions of a
facility.
      (3)   Upon the occurrence of one or more of the events requiring removal,
the property owner or persons who had used the facility shall immediately apply
for any required demolition or removal permits, and immediately proceed with
and complete the demolition/removal.
      (4)   If the required removal of a facility or a portion thereof has not
been lawfully completed within 60 days of the applicable deadline, and after at
least 30 days’ written notice, the township may remove or secure the removal of
the facility or required portions thereof, with its actual cost and reasonable
administrative charge to be drawn, collected and/or enforced from or under the
security posted at the time of application.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.231 OUTDOOR STORAGE YARDS.
   Outdoor storage yards may be permitted in certain districts, as specified in
this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   The site plan shall detail the location and type of equipment or
materials proposed to be stored in the outdoor storage yards. Anticipated
duration of storage of specified materials, height and extent of area covered
by materials shall also be indicated on the site plan.
   (B)   All vehicular use areas shall be paved with asphalt or concrete. Areas
used exclusively for storage may be gravel or crushed stone surface, as
approved by the Planning Commission. All proposed surface areas shall be
detailed on the site plan.
   (C)   All lighting shall be shielded downward and away from adjacent
properties and right-of-way. All lighting locations shall be noted on the site
plan.
   (D)   The storage yard shall be screened on all sides by a landform buffer
strip, buffer strip or screen wall/fence and adjacent greenbelt in conformance
with §§
153.173 and
153.177. The Planning Commission may require additional screening or
landscaping where the Planning Commission determines that it is necessary to
prevent negative impacts on adjacent land uses.
   (E)   No storage area shall be located within 20 feet of any property line.
Stored material shall not exceed eight feet in height within 50 feet of any
property line.
   (F)   The Planning Commission and Township Board may request review and
comment on the proposed outdoor storage yard from the Fire Marshal and the
State Department of Environmental Quality where the materials proposed to be
stored may pose an environmental or safety hazard.
   (G)   The Planning Commission shall review the site one year from approval
to ensure compliance with this section and the special land use permit.
   (H)   Public address systems are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.232 CENTRAL DRY CLEANING PLANTS.
   Central dry cleaning plants may be permitted in certain districts, as
specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   The site plan submittal shall include a floor plan which details the
location of all storage areas for hazardous/toxic materials and the method of
secondary containment proposed as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   All truck loading/unloading areas shall be located within a side or
rear yard and shall be a minimum 50 feet from any property line.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.233 VEHICLE WASH FACILITIES.
   Self-service and automatic vehicle wash facilities may be permitted in
certain districts, as specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   The site plan shall detail all required parking and vehicular standing
areas as required in §
153.169, Off-Street Parking.
   (B)   The site shall be designed to minimize the potential for excess water
from clean vehicles dripping onto adjacent roads. In complying with this
division (B), a combination of alternatives may be used including, but not
limited to, blowers, hand-drying, length of exit drive and general site design.
   (C)   The site plan shall detail the location of all proposed vacuum
stations. These areas shall be located so as not to conflict with any required
parking, drive or automobile standing areas. Self-contained, covered waste
receptacles shall be provided at each proposed vacuum station to provide
convenient disposal of customer refuse.
   (D)   The site shall be screened from abutting property in conformance with
§§
153.173 and
153.177. The Planning Commission may require additional landscaping or
screening where the Planning Commission determines that it is necessary to
prevent negative impacts on adjoining properties.
   (E)   All lighting shall be noted on the site plan and shall be shielded
downward and away from adjacent properties and rights-of-way.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.234 HIGH VOLUME WELLS OR WELL SYSTEMS.
   A high volume water well or well systems, defined as a well or series of
wells capable of producing over 100 gallons per minute peak capacity and
intended to serve a use other than one single-family home, may be permitted by
the Planning Commission in certain districts as provided in this chapter,
subject to the following.
   (A)   There must be a demonstrated need for the proposed high volume water
well or system.
   (B)   All such uses shall be completely enclosed and without storage yards.
   (C)   No structure shall exceed the height limit of the district and all
storage tanks shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to at
least the height of the tank.
   (D)   All buildings shall be designed to be compatible in style and
materials with other uses and structures permitted in the district.
   (E)   No building shall be located closer than 50 feet to any property line
abutting land zoned for residential use. No high volume well or well system
shall be located closer than 100 feet to any property line.
   (F)   Adequate off-street parking, screened from public view, shall be
provided for any service personnel and all drives and parking areas shall be
built in accordance with §
153.169.
   (G)   The applicant shall submit a site plan and hydrogeologic study
prepared by a registered engineer, qualified to prepare hydrogeological
studies, showing the extent of the well cone of influence, the number and
location of wells, the anticipated average and peak water flow on a daily and
peak basis. In addition, the study shall document the location and depth of
existing wells within the maximum proposed cone of influence area or 2,000
feet, whichever is greater, and describe the anticipated impact on these wells.
The study shall include a mitigation plan in the event that the existing wells
within the cone of influence of the proposed well or system fail after the
proposed well(s) is constructed due to installation of said well. The plan
shall also provide, at a minimum, for the future connection to the well or
system (or drilling of new individual wells) to those properties within the
cone of influence that are currently undeveloped or underdeveloped. In no way
shall the construction and operation of a water well structure restrict or
eliminate the availability of potable water to those residents, businesses and
property owners within the cone of influence of the well(s).
   (H)   (1)   The applicant shall submit an application to the Township Clerk
for approval to drill a test water well for the purpose of collecting data
needed to complete a full application and to determine the feasibility of
establishing a permanent well or well system. The drilling of a test well may
be permitted as a temporary use not requiring special land use approval.
      (2)   The application shall include the following information:
         (a)   Name, address, city, zip code and phone number of applicant;
         (b)   Location of proposed test well;
         (c)   Purpose of proposed test well;
         (d)   Anticipated depth and peak volume of well;
         (e)   A scale drawing showing the location of potential contaminants,
industrial uses and industrial zoning districts within 2,000 feet of the
proposed well;
         (f)   Proposed end users of the well or well system and location of
end users;
         (g)   Number of days anticipated to complete drilling and number of
days anticipated to complete testing; and
         (h)   Signature of applicant.
   (I)   An application for a permanent high volume water well or well system
shall include all information required in this section.
   (J)   No high volume water well or well system shall be constructed within
2,000 feet of any known source of soil or groundwater contamination. The
applicant shall provide a map, prepared by a registered engineer, land
surveyor, architect, landscape architect or planner showing the existing uses
and zoning within a minimum 2,000-foot radius of the site which shall include
an inventory of all hazardous materials users, underground fuel tanks, and
similar potential sources of groundwater contamination. This radius may be
increased by the Planning Commission depending on the results of the
hydrogeologic study.
   (K)   In addition to the above, the applicant shall address other potential
negative impacts that may be caused by the construction and operation of a high
volume water well system, and provide and establish a plan for mitigation of
these negative impacts.
   (L)   The Planning Commission shall review the permit annually for all high
volume water wells or well systems. The applicant shall provide well log data
including peak and average flow data on a monthly basis and water quality
testing results for review.
   (M)   A performance bond in an amount to be set by the Township Board shall
be provided by the applicant to ensure protection of adjacent property owners’
water supply.
   (N)   Well location, construction and operation shall be in conformance with
the state and county public health standards and the standards in this chapter.
In the event of a conflict between the two, the more restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.235 LUMBER AND PLANING MILLS.
   Lumber and planing mills may be permitted in certain districts, as specified
in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   The use shall be completely enclosed with no activities occurring
outdoors except ancillary storage, loading and unloading of raw materials and
finished products.
   (B)   Outdoor storage yards associated with the use(s) shall be located in
conformance with §
153.231.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.236 EQUESTRIAN STABLES AND RIDING ACADEMIES.
   Private or commercial stables and riding academies may be permitted in
certain districts, as specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   Private equestrian stables. Where the stable is utilized solely for
horses and ponies belonging to the property owner, and where no boarding or
other equestrian activity of any kind is offered to persons or organizations
not in the immediate family of the property owner, no special approval is
required. The private stable is subject to the provisions of raising and
keeping of animals provision within each district except where herein provided.
   (B)   Commercial equestrian stables and riding academies. Commercial
equestrian stables and riding academies, where permitted by this chapter shall
conform with the following.
      (1)   The minimum site size shall be 20 acres.
      (2)   All buildings, corrals and other enclosures for animals shall be a
minimum 250 feet from any property zoned residential district and 150 feet from
any other property line or right-of-way.
      (3)   All manure or other wastes produced or generated by raising or
keeping of animals shall be stored in a fashion which reduces the nuisance
impact of said stockpile for a period to exceed 120 days and no wastes shall be
stockpiled closer than 125 feet from any property line. This division (B)(3)
shall not be construed as preventing the spreading of manure as fertilizer in
conjunction with an agricultural operation.
      (4)   All animals shall be adequately fenced or corralled to prevent them
from roaming off-site.
      (5)   There shall be no outdoor storage of customer’s trailers or other
vehicles for transporting horses.
      (6)   The application for special land use approval shall include a
written statement of the number of horses and ponies which will be
accommodated, the nature and duration of any equestrian events which will be
held, the planned or agreed use of any other properties for riding or
pasturing, and any agreements or arrangements with any equestrian clubs, groups
or organizations for use of the facilities.
      (7)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with a ratio of
one space for each boarding stall. In addition, the site plan shall demonstrate
adequate off-street parking to accommodate parking resulting from any approved
equestrian events or activities which will generate customer or spectator
parking in excess of the customary and incidental parking demand.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000; Ord. 36, passed 6-8-2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.237 TOOL, DIE, GAUGE, METAL PLATING AND MACHINE SHOPS.
   Tool, die, gauge, metal plating and machine shops may be permitted in
certain districts, as specified in this chapter, in conformance with the
following.
   (A)   The application shall include a written report which documents
conformance with the performance standards in §
153.172 and the standards in §
153.180, Site Plan Review.
   (B)   Outdoor storage yards shall conform to the provisions of §
153.231.
   (C)   Screening and landscaping shall be provided in conformance with §§
153.173 and
153.177. The Planning Commission may require additional landscaping or
screening where the Planning Commission determines it is necessary to protect
adjacent properties or rights-of-way from negative impacts of the proposed uses
(s).
   (D)   The site shall be designed to minimize the impact of the proposed
facility on adjacent land uses and rights-of-way. This shall include building
and outdoor use area design and location, screening, landscaping, bulk and
height of proposed structures, and drive/parking location.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.238 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE PROCESSING, TRANSFERRING AND STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Agricultural processing facilities may be permitted in certain districts, as
specified in this chapter, in conformance with the following.
   (A)   The facility shall be primarily engaged in the processing of produce,
storage of produce or the transferring of produce from processing or storage to
trucks.
   (B)   All buildings, equipment, materials, truck loading or produce storage
areas shall be a minimum 50 feet from any property line.
   (C)   Off-street parking shall be provided for all uses proposed, in
accordance with §
153.169.
   (D)   Wherever the proposed use is adjacent to a property which is zoned
residential, screening of active outdoor use areas such as loading zones shall
be provided in the form of a landform buffer, buffer strip, or screening wall/
fence and adjacent greenbelt along the property line.
   (E)   Waste materials and spoiled produce shall be disposed of promptly and
shall be temporarily stored in conformance with §§
153.173 and
153.177.
   (F)   Access to the site shall be provided from a county primary or
secondary thoroughfare. Access drives and internal vehicle use areas shall be
designed to accommodate anticipated truck turning movements on-site. All trucks
maneuvering and waiting areas shall be located on-site.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.239 SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTER DENSITY BONUS OPTION.
   (A)   The single-family cluster density bonus option may be permitted in the
AG and SF Districts. The purpose of this development technique is to encourage
further preservation of natural features such as mature tree stands, unusual
topography, water and wetland areas, floodplains and equestrian or agricultural
areas by providing for a density bonus and variation in minimum lot widths. On
sites without important natural features, this option may be used to protect
rural vistas and equestrian or agricultural areas, create permanent open spaces
and/or recreation facilities.
   (B)   All proposals under this option must comply with the following.
      (1)   The land must be platted and subdivided under the State Subdivision
Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., and
Chapter 152  of this code, or the State Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 et seq., and the township standards for condominium
subdivision,
Chapter 151  of this code and §§
91.01  through
91.06 .
      (2)   The parcel of land possess one or more of the following physical or
locational characteristics:
         (a)   Topography of the site exceeds 15% slope;
         (b)   Street slopes would exceed 6% without mass grading of the site;
         (c)   The parcel contains a readily identifiable physical or cultural
resource, which is to be conserved by the developer. These may include:
            1.   Streams, lakes, ponds or other watercourses, and associated
upland areas;
            2.   Designated wetlands which are regulated by the State
Department of Environmental Quality;
            3.   Designated floodplains associated with a lake, stream or
river;
            4.   Agricultural lands which are actively being farmed or are
considered prime agricultural lands based on parcel site, configuration and
soils;
            5.   Land areas which are actively utilized for equestrian purposes
and which, by their site, configuration and proximity to agricultural or other
equestrian uses, result in an area ideally suited for such uses;
            6.   Tree stands, woodlands and other natural vegetation areas
which are of a size, configuration and general character as to provide open
space, environmental habitat and passive or active recreational opportunities;
and/or
            7.   Other areas as determined appropriate for open space
preservation by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The development plan shall encourage a more efficient, aesthetic
and desirable use of the land by a demonstrated preservation of physical and/or
cultural resources of unique characteristics of the site, through a
consolidation of the developed areas.
      (4)   The following guidelines shall be used in designing a single-family
cluster development proposal with the density bonus option.
         (a)   Density bonus cluster standard modifications. The following
table outlines the design standard modifications, which may be permitted by the
Planning Commission under this section.
 
Zone Maximum Density Bonus  Minimum Required Open Space
     (1) (2) (3)
AG   10%                    15%
SF   10%                    15%
(1)   Density bonus is calculated based upon the maximum density permitted
under §
153.151 for the parent (original) parcel, where density increase results in a
fraction, the units permitted may be rounded up. (example: where 4.2 units
are calculated for a sale, then 5 units would be permitted subject to all
other conditions)
(2)   See §
153.168 for height, bulk, density, area and setback requirements for
accessory structures and uses.
(3)   Lot size may be reduced to two acres upon written finding of fact by
the County Health Department that such a decrease can accommodate adequate
on-site septic and water service facilities.
   
         (b)   Design and plan requirements. All applications shall comply with
the following requirements for information, plan content and design.
            1.   A community impact statement shall be submitted which
describes the project’s anticipated impact on:
               a.   Public services and facilities, such as police and fire
protection, emergency medical service, public schools and the like;
               b.   The local public road system;
               c.   Neighboring uses; and
               d.   Visual character of the site.
            2.   The community impact statement may be incorporated onto the
site plan or included with the application as a separate written submittal.
            3.   A resource inventory shall be submitted which clearly
identifies the following:
               a.   All floodplains, wetlands and waterbodies;
               b.   A woodlands analysis describing all significant tree stands
and methods of preserving identified areas;
               c.   A survey and analysis of on-site soils and slopes, based on
Soil Conservation and USGS maps and data;
               d.   An analysis of the cultural features of the site, such as
views, historic structures, patterns of original farm fields, active
agricultural or equestrian uses, fences or stone walls, recreational uses and
the like; and
               e.   The resource inventory components may be incorporated onto
the site plan or submitted as a separate written document.
            4.   All lots shall be served by an internal road network. No lots
shall front upon the existing major road.
            5.   The permanent open space shall include the site’s most
significant natural and/or cultural environmental features, such as:
               a.   Steep slopes;
               b.   Wetlands, floodplains, natural watercourses;
               c.   Woodlands;
               d.   Scenic views;
               e.   Agricultural or equestrian components;
               f.   Historical structures;
               g.   Recreational pathways and facilities; and
               h.   Similar features approved by the Planning Commission.
            6.   Individual dwellings and clusters of homes shall be visually
screened from view along existing roadway corridors, in order to reduce visual
impact and the appearance of a typical subdivision.
            7.   Open space areas shall be accessible to all lots in the
development, either directly, from a pathway system, or from the internal road
network. Where the open space is agricultural land, the open space dedication
and maintenance agreement shall include limitations on physical access to the
open space for non-agricultural purposes and provisions for adequate,
unrestricted agricultural, farming, implement or other access necessary for
agricultural uses or activities. Access to agricultural use areas shall be
separate from residential access to unite and opens space areas.
         (c)   Open space maintenance.
            1.   All open space shall be permanent and set aside in perpetuity.
            2.   Open space shall be in single ownership and maintained by any
of, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
               a.   Deed restrictions or condominium master deed restrictions
with the township named as a controlling party regarding preservation and
maintenance of dedicated open space areas;
               b.   Dedication of open space to a public body or private land
conservancy or trust; or
               c.   Conservation easement granted to a public body or private
land conservancy or trust.
            3.   All open space ownership and maintenance agreements shall be
reviewed and approved as to form and content by township legal counsel prior to
approval by the Planning Commission.
            4.   All open space agreements which involve donations of land to
the township or which name the township as a party to any agreement shall be
approved by the Township Board prior to approval of the development proposal by
the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Compliance with other criteria. All proposals for special land
use approval under this section shall comply with all provisions of §§
153.150 and
153.151 which are not specifically modified under this section.
         (e)   Review process for density bonus option. All proposals for the
cluster housing density bonus option shall be reviewed in accordance with the
provisions of §§
153.205 through
153.244 Special Land Uses and §
153.151. The flow chart in §
153.151 outlines the general review process.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.240 AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT SALES AND SERVICE FACILITIES.
   Agricultural implement sales and service facilities and similar uses may be
permitted in certain districts specified in this chapter, subject to the
following.
   (A)   The site shall have direct access to an existing paved public road
with a planned right-of-way of 120 feet or more, or currently designated by the
county as a county primary road.
   (B)   Any storage yard for equipment or machinery shall be separated from an
adjoining residential district by a greenbelt in accordance with the
requirements and standards of §
153.177.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may require additional screening, buffering or
landscaping along any property line where the Planning Commission determines
such additional improvements would be necessary to reduce the impact of the
proposed outdoor sales lot on adjoining properties.
   (D)   Management plans shall be maintained for the collection, storage and
recycling or proper disposal of all new, used or waste implement fluids
resulting from repair or service operations.
   (E)   No vehicles or merchandise for sale shall be displayed within any
required greenbelts, landform buffers, buffer strips or other landscape or open
space area.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.241 PRIVATE CLUBS AND LODGE HALLS.
   Private clubs and lodge halls may be permitted in certain districts
specified in this chapter, subject to the following.
   (A)   All such uses shall have ingress and egress directly onto a major
thoroughfare having an existing or planned right-of-way width of at least 120
feet, as indicated on the Master Plan.
   (B)   All activities, other than parking of motor vehicles and loading and
unloading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, except for
outdoor activity specifically approved and/or licensed by the township.
   (C)   No building shall be closer than 50 feet to any property line. The
building setback shall be increased to 100 feet when abutting a residential
zoning district.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 30%.
   (E)   No such uses shall abut an existing single-family residential district
on more than one side.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading and unloading shall meet the standards
of §§
153.169,
153.170 and
153.171.
   (G)   A ten-foot wide landscaped buffer containing one tree and three shrubs
shall be provided adjacent to the road right-of-way or easement and any
residential district. The buffer shall meet the standards of §
153.173.
   (H)   No business activity other than those directly related to the club or
to its operation shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.242 VETERINARY CLINICS.
   Veterinary clinics may be permitted as a special land use in the AG
Agricultural and B-2 Highway-Oriented Commercial Districts subject to
requirements itemized below.
   (A)   Site requirements; lot size and width.
      (1)   AG Agricultural District.
         (a)   The minimum site size shall be five acres with a minimum lot
width of 330 feet. If large animals (cattle, horses, dairy cattle, pigs and the
like - see definition of Large Animals in §
153.002) are to be served on-site, the minimum lot size shall be ten acres with
a minimum lot width of 660 feet.
         (b)   The subject property must also be so located as not to hinder
the natural and presumed residential development of the area.
      (2)   B-2 Highway-Oriented Commercial District.
         (a)   The minimum site size and width shall be in accordance with the
B-2 District Schedule of Regulations under §
153.150.
         (b)   There shall be no outdoor runs or other outdoor facilities.
   (B)   Yard and placement requirements.
      (1)   In the AG Agricultural District no building or outdoor runs or
other outdoor facilities shall be closer than 150 feet from any abutting
property line.
      (2)   In the B-2 Highway-Oriented Commercial Districts the requirements
shall be in accordance with the B-2 District Schedule of Regulations under §
153.150.
   (C)   Off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   One parking space shall be provided for each employee (including
owner if working on-site), plus one parking space for each 150 square feet of
usable floor area.
      (2)   The parking area shall be screened from view of any abutting
residential use by one or more of the means cited under §
153.177(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5).
      (3)   Required parking must be improved in accordance with the standards
of §
153.170.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may require adequate means of noise and
odor control, including but not limited to buffering, use of berms, inside
night time (also potentially day time) housing of animals and any other
reasonable means to ensure adequate protection and enjoyment of neighboring
properties. Failure by the developer of a veterinary clinic to demonstrate in
his or her proposal the adequate provision of means to control noise and odor
shall be grounds to deny special land use approval.
      (2)   Noise control shall be subject to §
153.172(E).
      (3)   Odor control shall be subject to §
153.172(F).
      (4)   Waste disposal shall be subject to §
153.172(G).
(Ord. 25, passed 4-9-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.243 UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (WIND FARMS).
   (A)   A utility grid wind energy system (wind farm) is a wind energy system
that is designed and built to provide electricity to the electric utility grid.
These wind farms are intended to be so constructed and located to be compatible
with other land uses such as farms and industrial uses, while protecting and
being distant from residential developments. An anemometer tower shall abide by
the same regulations below for a utility grid wind energy system and shall be
removed before a utility grid wind energy system is installed.
   (B)   Utility grid wind energy systems may be permitted as a special land
use in the AG Agricultural and LI Light Industrial Districts subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   Setbacks. Any towers shall be setback a minimum of 1,320 feet from
any residential district, except the AG Agricultural District, and 1,000 feet
from any existing off-site residence. Furthermore, the base of any tower shall
be setback from the nearest property line a distance of not less than one and
one-half times the height of the tower. In addition, no part of the wind energy
system, including any guy wire anchors, may extend closer than 40 feet to any
property line or existing right-of-way line, unless a plan for location(s) of
accessory structures and equipment is presented (including screening) and is
approved as part of the site plan. Land included within such minimum setback
areas from a property line shall remain undivided and undeveloped with other
structures not accessory to the tower.
      (2)   Noise. Sound pressure levels shall not exceed 55 dB(A) at the
property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound pressure level may
be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard
shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5dB(A).
      (3)   Shadow flicker. The applicant must demonstrate that no adverse
shadow flicker impact will occur from sunrise to sunset throughout the year on
any occupied buildings and lands of adjacent properties. Measures to eliminate
or mitigate any potential shadow flicker impacts shall be identified and be
made known to adjacent property owners.
      (4)   Safety.
         (a)   Clearances. The minimum vertical blade tip clearance from grade
shall be 30 feet for a wind energy system employing a horizontal axis rotor.
Blade or rotor arc must be demonstrated to be a safe and reasonable distance
(at least 20 feet) from any separate building, structure, utility wire or tree.
         (b)   Guy wire visibility. If a wind energy system tower is supported
by guy wires, the wires shall be clearly visible to a height of a least six
feet above the guy wire anchors.
         (c)   Rotor or blade integrity protection. A wind energy system shall
have automatic braking, governing or a feathering system to prevent
uncontrolled rotation or over speeding.
         (d)   Lightning. All wind energy system towers shall have lightning
protection.
      (5)   Construction codes, towers and interconnection standards. Wind
energy systems, including towers, shall comply with all applicable state
construction and electrical codes and local building permit requirements. Wind
energy systems, including towers, shall comply with Federal Aviation
Administration requirements, the regulations of the State Aeronautics
Commission, and the State Tall Structures Act, Public Act 259 of 1959, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq. If a utility grid wind energy system is attached to
a building or structure, the Building Inspector must approve it as being safe
and secure and in accordance with all applicable state construction and
electrical codes.
      (6)   Height limits. A utility grid wind energy system (wind farm) may
exceed district height limits. Multiple towers are permitted.
      (7)   Miscellaneous requirements.
         (a)   Electromagnetic interference. No wind energy system shall be
installed in any location where its proximity to existing fixed broadcast,
retransmission or reception antennae for radio, television or wireless
telephone or other personal communication systems would produce electromagnetic
interference with signal transmission or reception unless the applicant
provides a replacement signal to the affected party that will restore reception
to at least the level present before operation of the wind energy system. The
applicant shall submit documentation from the manufacturer which demonstrates
that the wind energy systems’ generation of electromagnetic energy falls within
a range that minimizes or eliminates any off-site interference.
         (b)   Vibration/enhanced wind currents. No wind energy system
generated vibrations or enhanced wind currents shall be humanly perceptible
beyond the property boundaries of the lot or parcel on which the wind energy
system is located.
         (c)   Documentation. The manufacturer’s material safety data sheets
shall be provided to the township with the application. Documentation shall
include the type and quantity of all materials used in the operation of all
equipment including, but not limited to, all lubricants and coolants.
         (d)   County Road Commission; performance bond. The applicant shall
provide documentation that the County Road Commission has been contacted, and
if required, that a performance bond has been posted (or other measures have
been taken) for the protection and/or restoration of all roads over which heavy
equipment or materials will be transported.
      (8)   Decommissioning.
         (a)   The utility grid wind energy system (wind farm) and all
appurtenances thereto shall be removed from the site within one year after the
wind energy system is no longer in use (not generating any electricity for over
12 months). The owner of the land upon which the system is located shall be
responsible for such removal. A wind energy system which is not so removed
shall constitute a public nuisance per se.
         (b)   The applicant shall post a bond (cash or irrevocable bank letter
of credit) with the township in an amount sufficient for the removal of the
utility grid wind energy system (wind farm) including all accessory buildings
and structures, clean up of the site including removal of the foundations and
restoration of the site to a condition equal to or better than that which
existed prior to the installation of the system.
      (9)   Group of properties. A developer may seek Planning Commission
approval of a utility grid wind energy system (wind farm) incorporating a block
of or group of properties under multiple, separate ownerships provided:
         (a)   All of the above regulations (divisions (B)(1) through (B)(8))
still apply, but to the whole rather than individual properties;
         (b)   A written agreement among the participating property owners has
been signed and recorded at the County Register of Deeds; and
         (c)   The proposal does not leave one or more non-participating
properties surrounded or otherwise isolated.
(Ord. 28, passed 2-9-2011) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.244 MUD BOGS.
   Mud bogs, including use of motorized off-road vehicles of all types on any
terrain, may be permitted as a special land use in the AG Agricultural District
subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   The minimum site size shall be 40 acres with a minimum width of 660
feet. The site shall be located on, or shall take principal access from a major
or secondary thoroughfare. (See township thoroughfare plan map). The site may
only abut land that is zoned AG Agricultural or LI Light Industrial.
   (B)   No existing dwelling unit shall be located within 500 feet of any
property line, except that dwellings located on the same parcel as the proposed
mud bog and dwellings that have clearly been abandoned shall be excluded from
this requirement. Measurements shall be determined by the straight line
distance taken from the nearest point on the property line of the parcel upon
which the proposed mud bog use is to be located to the nearest point on the
exterior wall of nearest dwelling (including attached garage).
   (C)   A site plan is required (§
153.180(A)(3)). The applicant must submit evidence that they have consulted
with the County Road Commission regarding a driveway permit and cleaning of
muddy vehicles before entering upon a public street.
   (D)   All points of entrance (ingress) or exit (egress) shall be no closer
than 200 feet from the intersection of any two streets.
   (E)   Any point of entrance or exit shall be no closer than 75 feet from any
other such point. There shall be a maximum of two entrance or exit points (two
in total).
   (F)   All parking shall be off-street.
   (G)   No more than two events shall be held in any one calendar month.
Events shall be held only during the period beginning April 1 and ending
October 31. The hours of operation shall be limited from 12 noon to 9 p.m. or
dusk if it occurs earlier.
   (H)   The design of the facility shall clearly show that safety and security
of persons on and off the site has been taken in consideration to the greatest
extent reasonably possible. The safety and security of persons on-site shall be
the responsibility of the operator and owner of the site (insurances, emergency
transport, fire safety, pedestrian and vehicular traffic and the like). A
safety and security plan shall be submitted for review and approval of the
Planning Commission at the time of site plan review.
   (I)   The Planning Commission may require adequate means of noise control,
including but not limited to any of (or combination of) the following:
buffering, use of berms, fences or walls (e.g. eight feet), large setbacks
(e.g. 100 feet or more), changes of terrain elevations and any other reasonable
means to ensure adequate protection and enjoyment of neighboring properties
(e.g. residences, livestock and parks). Central loudspeakers/paging systems are
prohibited within 660 feet of residentially planned, zoned or used property.
Any such loudspeakers shall be directed only toward the interior of the site.
Failure by the developer of a mud bog or motorized off-road vehicle facility to
demonstrate in his or her proposal the adequate provision of means to control
noise shall be grounds to deny special land use approval. Noise control shall
also be subject to §
153.172(E).
   (J)   Other environmental requirements.
      (1)   All parking areas, drives, tracks and display areas shall be kept
dust-free at all times so as not to become a safety hazard or a nuisance to any
adjoining property(ies) (§
153.172(A)).
      (2)   Odor control shall be subject to §
153.172(F).
      (3)   Waste disposal (including, but not limited to: trash generated by
the proprietor, organizers, sponsors, participants or spectators, human waste,
disabled vehicles, vehicle parts or components, any and all other debris and
the like) shall be removed from the property and properly disposed of after
each event. Waste disposal shall also be subject to §
153.172(G).
      (4)   The site plan shall show all existing and proposed drainage. Any
drainage from the bog, track or display area(s) shall be contained on-site.
   (K)   Accessory retail or commercial facilities, such as food and beverage
facilities or equipment shops, shall be designed to serve only the patrons of
the mud bog or motorized off-road vehicle facility. No alcoholic beverages may
be sold on the site or provided to participants or spectators with or without
charge.
   (L)   Vehicles with muddy wheels and/or bodies must be washed adequately
before exiting the site to prevent tracking of mud or other debris onto a
public street(s).
   (M)   In the case where the use is proposed to be located on land abutting
an unpaved road, the Planning Commission shall review the proposed use with
regard to dust control. If dust control measures are found by the Planning
Commission to be necessary for the protection of the public welfare, either at
the time of special land use and site plan approval or after a review of actual
operating history of the use, the Planning Commission may require the operator
to establish an escrow account with the township sufficient to cover the
expense of chloride applications to all unpaved roads leading to the use from
the nearest paved roads in each direction. Said escrow account shall be
required to be replenished annually prior to each season of use.
   (N)   The Zoning Administrator or Zoning Enforcement Officer may make
periodic inspections to ensure that the originally approved special land use
and site plan review requirements are being complied with. Failure to comply
with originally approved requirements may provide grounds for citation of
violation under §
153.999 . If a violation(s) is discovered, the Zoning Administrator or Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall provide a written notice of the violation(s) and
offer a reasonable time period for remedy by the owner, not to exceed 90 days.
If, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator or Zoning Enforcement Officer,
there have been repeated or serious violations, he or she may proceed with
enforcement under §
153.999  without the remedy period.
(Ord. 32, passed 2-13-2013) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.245 HOME OCCUPATION MEDICAL MARIHUANA PRIMARY CAREGIVERS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Home occupation caregivers.
      (1)   Medical marihuana caregivers are those persons defined under the
Michigan Medical Marihuana Act (“MMMA”) of 2008 (MMMA) who are issued a
registry identification card who cultivate marihuana for patients.
      (2)   Registered primary caregivers, operating in compliance with the
MMMA General Rules, the MMMA, and the requirements of the zoning ordinance, are
regulated as a home occupation subject to facilities cultivation approvals
required under this section.
      (3)   The cultivation, delivery or distribution of marihuana to treat or
alleviate a debilitating medical condition is otherwise prohibited, except in
compliance with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act (“MMMA”) of 2008, this
zoning ordinance, or other State of Michigan law.
      (4)   The use of marihuana solely for personal use, or recreational use
does not require a permit under this division; however, all applicable State of
Michigan requirements must be met.
   (B)   Home occupation-medical marihuana primary caregivers facilities
approval.
      (1)   Home occupations are allowed for caregivers under the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008 (“MMMA”) as a special land use
in the (AG) Agricultural District zoning classification.
      (2)   The home occupation shall be by application and zoning permit
applying the standards in this section as a special land use and now listed as
§ 153.032(X) and § 153.205 Special Land Use Approval Requirements or as later
amended.
      (3)   The home occupation shall be carried on entirely within a dwelling
or approved accessory facility or structure and exclusively by the inhabitants
thereof.
      (4)   No article shall be offered for sale on the premises unless
incidental and compliant to the service conducted within the requirements under
the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008 (“MMMA”).
      (5)   Caregivers must comply with the applicable provisions of this
section and the township zoning ordinance as applicable.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   The following standards and requirements shall apply in reviewing
the special land use application to the location at which the medical
cultivation of marihuana is conducted by a primary caregiver. Growth, storage,
manufacturing and cultivation of medical marihuana must comply with the
following standards:
         (a)   The medical use of marihuana shall comply at all times with the
MMMA and the MMMA General Rules, as amended.
         (b)   Except as otherwise required by law, not more than one
registered primary caregiver, who is the registered caregiver where the
cultivation occurs, shall be permitted to operate and cultivate as a primary
caregiver at any single property parcel. The principal owner of the dwelling
must be included in the application.
         (c)   The medical growth of marihuana shall be conducted entirely
within a dwelling occupied by the caregiver, or within an attached garage,
outbuilding, accessory building, or structure, or in an “enclosed, locked
facility” (as that phrase is defined by the MMMA), for up to 12 marihuana
plants for each registered qualifying patient (up to five patients) with whom
the registered primary caregiver is connected through the registration process
established by the Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, and up to 12
additional marihuana plants for personal use, if the primary caregiver is also
registered as a qualifying patient under the MMMA.
         (d)   Except as provided herein, a home occupation shall not require
internal or external alterations or construction features, equipment,
machinery, outdoor storage or signs not customary in the Agricultural District
as provided in the zoning ordinance.
         (e)   If the cultivation of marijuana as a home occupation occurs in a
dwelling, the cultivation area shall not utilize more than 25% of the total
floor area of the dwelling, but in no event more than 500 square feet of floor
area.
         (f)   The home occupation shall not generate traffic volumes greater
than normally expected in a residential or agricultural area. All parking shall
be off-street and may not be located in a front yard.
         (g)   No equipment or process shall be used in a home occupation that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference,
detectable to the normal senses beyond the property line of the home
occupation. In the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process
shall be used which creates visual or audible interferences, or causes
fluctuations in line voltages off the premises.
      (2)   Approved facility. The home occupation for medical growth of
marihuana shall be conducted entirely within an approved dwelling occupied by
the caregiver, or attached garage, or outbuilding, or accessory building, other
structure, or in an “enclosed, locked facility” (as that phrase is defined by
the MMMA) approved under this section. The home occupation whether in a
dwelling, garage, outbuilding, or accessory building, or other approved
structure, or in an “enclosed, locked facility” shall be clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of premises as a residence.
      (3)   Application. First time applicants shall be required to pay the
applicable plan review and inspection fees as set by the Township Board by
resolution, which may be amended from time to time. The Planning Commission may
require an applicant to amend and provide further documentation to complete an
application to carry out the spirt of this section.
      (4)   Nuisance. No noise, odor, fire hazard, or traffic congestion shall
be created beyond which is normal in a residential area. No equipment or
process shall be used in the growth of marihuana which creates noise,
vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference detectable to the
normal senses which interferes with neighboring parcels use and quiet enjoyment
of land. No equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible
interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes
fluctuations in line voltage off the premises or interferes with neighboring
parcels use and quiet enjoyment of land.
      (5)   Outside storage. No outdoor storage or visible display of marihuana
or materials shall be allowed, except in compliance with this section and
approved facility.
      (6)   One caregiver per property parcel. There shall be no other
caregiver allowed to cultivate on a single property parcel, except one State of
Michigan licensed caregiver who resides on the property parcel in a single-
family home on the premises and the growing and cultivation facilities are
approved under this section. No cultivation of marijuana shall be allowed for
caregivers, except on a parcel occupied by the licensed caregiver.
      (7)   Signage. In order to maintain the residential character, a
commercial sign identifying as a primary caregiver or home occupation by word,
image or otherwise, or indicating that the medical use or cultivation of
marihuana is taking place on the premises, shall not be permitted, nor shall
any vehicle having such a sign be parked anywhere on the premises.
      (8)   Materials. Approved lighting, heating, watering, drying or other
equipment, or fertilizers, herbicides or other chemicals directly related to
the medical cultivation of marihuana are allowed on the property, however, no
other materials or equipment not generally associated with home ownership, use,
and maintenance of a dwelling shall be permitted.
      (9)   Distribution. Distribution of marihuana or use of items in the
administration of marihuana other than allowed under the MMMA shall not occur
at or on the premises of the primary caregiver. A qualifying patient shall not
visit, come to, or be present at the residence of the primary caregiver to
purchase, smoke, consume, obtain or receive possession of any marihuana except
as allowed by other State of Michigan law. There shall be no sales of
marijuana, except recoupment of costs for registered primary caregiver who may
receive compensation for costs associated with assisting a registered
qualifying patient in the medical use of marihuana to the extent allowed by the
MMMA.
      (10)   Delivery. Except for the primary caregiver, no other person shall
deliver marihuana to the qualifying patient.
      (11)   Underage access. No one under the age of 21 years shall have
access to medical marihuana, except as otherwise allowed by law.
      (12)   On-site consumption. No on-site consumption or smoking of medical
marihuana shall be permitted within the dwelling or on the property of a
primary caregiver, except for lawful medical marihuana consumption by the
primary caregiver if registered as also qualifying patient under the MMMA or as
otherwise allowed by law.
      (13)   Building code permits. In addition to the permit granted
hereunder, all building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical, soil or other
permits required under the State of Michigan Building, Plumbing, Mechanical,
Electric, or Fire Codes or Ordinances, shall be obtained for any portion of a
building, structure, or facility in which equipment and devices that
constructed in support the cultivation, growing or harvesting of marihuana are
located or used.
      (14)   Product sales. Related merchandise or products shall not be sold
or distributed from the dwelling or property of the primary caregiver.
      (15)   Registration, initial, complaint based, and annual inspection. The
property shall be registered with the township with contact information. The
property structures shall be required to pass an initial, as built, and annual
basis inspection by the township officials including, but not limited to, the
Fire Department and code officials' inspection based upon the standards in this
section and conditions imposed under the special land use permit. The property
may also require an inspection on a complaint basis. Such inspections shall
include, but not be limited to, inspections of the heating equipment,
filtration system, electrical wiring, lighting, watering and disposal methods
that are used for the cultivation, growth and/or harvesting of medical
marihuana, and the storage of any chemicals associated with the cultivation,
growth, manufacturing and/or processing of medical marihuana. A certificate of
approval will be issued to the registrant following passage of the required
inspections. The registrant will be required to pay an additional fee for each
inspection and annually as set by resolution of the Township Board.
      (16)   Open burn. There shall be no open burning of marihuana or
chemicals used in cultivation of marihuana.
      (17)   Discarded materials. All discarded marihuana and all by-products
associated with the growth, processing and cultivations of medical marihuana
must be disposed of in a way that prevents persons or animals from accessing
the discarded materials.
      (18)   Cost recovery. In the event of any explosion, release, or other
hazardous condition or situation that results from the growth, cultivation or
processing of medical marihuana, the responsible party shall be responsible for
reimbursement of any and all emergency response costs.
      (19)   MMMA controls, confidential information, show cause hearing and
permit revocation. Medical marihuana shall not be grown, processed, handled or
possessed at the dwelling of the primary caregiver beyond that which is
permitted by the MMMA and this section.
         (a)   The use shall be maintained in compliance with the requirements
of this section, the MMMA and the MMMA General Rules. Any departure shall be
grounds to revoke the permit and take other lawful action. If there is a
compliance issue, the enforcement official may request a show cause hearing
before the Township Planning Commission why a permit should not be revoked for
a violation of this section. The applicant shall be provided notice and
opportunity to be heard before revocation. If a permit is revoked, the
applicant shall not engage in the activity unless and until a new permit is
granted. The permittee may appeal any denial, conditions, or revocation or
other adverse action to the zoning board of appeals as allowed by the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act, before seeking judicial relief.
         (b)   Information treated as confidential under the MMMA, including
the primary caregiver registry identification card and any information about
qualifying patients associated with the primary caregiver, which is received by
the township, shall be maintained separately from public information submitted
in support of the application shall not be distributed or otherwise made
available to the public and shall not be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act, unless required to be disclosed by judicial order,
lawful subpoena, or other law.
   (D)   Permit and site plan requirements.
      (1)   Permit application. A complete and accurate permit application
shall be submitted on the application form provided by the township along with
a uniform application fee in an amount determined by the Township Board by
resolution.
      (2)   Special land use permit. The facility and cultivation shall be
permitted only with the prior issuance of a special use permit.
         (a)   The application shall include site plan(s) describing the
processing, storage and cultivation of medical marihuana. The plan shall
describe, in detail, the process and methods used for the growth, processing
and/or cultivation of medical marihuana, including a description of the heating
equipment and processes, chemical storage, filtration equipment, electrical
wiring and lighting, and plant material and water disposal methods to be
utilized.
         (b)   The permit application shall include the name and address of the
applicant; the address of the property; proof, such as a driver’s license,
voter registration card or similar record showing that the dwelling is the
applicant’s full-time residence; a current state registration card issued to
the primary caregiver; a full description of the nature and types of equipment
which will be used in marihuana cultivation and processing; the number of
patients served, and a description of the location at which the use will take
place, the parcel number and lot size.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator may require additional information or
permits necessary to demonstrate compliance with all requirements. The zoning
administrator shall review the application to determine compliance with this
section, the MMMA and the MMMA General Rules and the other applicable
provisions of the zoning ordinance.
         (d)   Special approval use. Upon completion of the application with
the zoning official, the application shall be sent to the Planning Commission
for review as applicable as a special land use under §
153.205.
         (e)   The Township Planning Commission shall make the final
determination for approval of the permit, which may be approved, denied, or
approved with conditions. The decision shall be incorporated in a statement of
findings and conclusions which specifies the basis for the decision and any
conditions imposed.
         (f)   Land spilt approvals and other municipal permits may be
coordinated or suspended during the application process.
      (3)   Site plan. The applicant for special land use permit approval shall
provide the following site plan information:
         (a)   Zoning site plan. Prior to construction of any cultivation
facility, the property owner, agent or designee shall provide the zoning
official a site plan which will include the location of the dwelling,
structure, building or enclosed locked facility, the size of the structure, and
the type of materials to be used in construction, the size of the lot, the
parcel number, the setbacks and other information the zoning official may
require to process the application.
         (b)   Chemicals and fertilizers plan. The plan shall include the
Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) containing information on the potential
hazards (health, fire reactivity and environmental impact) related to chemical
products. The site plans shall also include the type, amount and location of
stored chemicals and fertilizers.
         (c)   Odor control plan. The site plan shall include a plan for odor
control. The plan shall include the location and type of control for odor-
emitting activity(ies). The applicant must provide information related to the
location of doors, windows, ventilation systems, and odor sources. The plan
should describe the odor-emitting activities or processes (e.g., cultivation)
that take place with odor mitigation practices based on specific best control
technologies and best practices.
         (d)   Plumbing, mechanical, and energy plans. The property owner shall
provide the zoning official a plumbing, mechanical, and energy plan with
details of any building, facility, structure or enclosed locked facility used
for the growth and cultivation of marihuana.
         (e)   Electrical plans and specifications. The property owner shall
submit a detailed set of electrical plans and specifications with the
application for an electrical permit for any wiring or alteration to an
electrical system. The electrical drawings shall include all of the following
details:
            1.   Lighting layout;
            2.   Circuiting;
            3.   Switching;
            4.   Conductor and raceway sizes;
            5.   Wattage schedule;
            6.   Service location and riser diagram;
            7.   Load calculations and available fault current calculations;
            8.   A proposed method of construction with construction symbols;
            9.   The plans shall include the selection of suitable disconnect
and overcurrent devices to provide proper coordination and interrupting
capacity for a wiring system is the responsibility of the designer; and
            10.   Approval from the local electrical energy supplier that the
request shall not place undue burden on the transfer or its electrical system.
         (f)   Disposal, pollution, water quality control. The applicant shall
provide a disposal and pollution control plan. An approved permit holder shall
be prohibited from degrading water quality, or disposing of marijuana or
chemicals or fertilizer into wells, drains or township sewers.
         (g)   Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy
(EGLE). The applicant may be required to present permits or approvals from EGLE
as applicable.
         (h)   Soil erosion and stormwater runoff and drainage control. The
applicant shall provide a soil erosion control plan and must apply for a soil
erosion permit as applicable to engage in specified earth movement or changes.
The applicant may not alter the drainage of their land that unreasonably
interfere with others' land, which creates a nuisance.
         (i)   Setbacks. Any portion of a dwelling, building or other structure
proposed for marihuana growth, such as a cultivation room, or facility
including an “enclosed, locked facility” as defined by the MMMA, shall meet the
setback requirements from adjacent property lines as defined and stated for in
each allowed zoning district. No structure shall attach to any other structure
on an adjacent property or cause a nuisance onto a neighboring property.
         (j)   Lighting. If medical marihuana is grown or located in a room,
building, structure or facility with windows or with exterior lighting, all
lighting shall be shielded to prevent ambient light from creating a distraction
for adjacent properties.
         (k)   Duty to maintain. When approving site plans, the township does
not assume responsibility for the design or for any deviations from any plan
drawings. The permit holder shall ensure that the plans and specifications
approved by the township are maintained in good working order and any use not
expanded from the approved plans. A copy of the plans and specifications, shall
be available on the site.
         (l)   Inspection. In addition, all other applicable application
requirements in this section and the zoning ordinance, codes and laws, any
portion of a dwelling, building or other structure, such as a cultivation room,
or facility including an “enclosed, locked facility” as defined by the MMMA,
used for the growth or storage of marihuana, are subject to inspection and
approval. Prior to approval, the property, dwelling, and all enclosed, locked
facilities shall be available for inspection upon request by the Zoning
Administrator, Building Official, Fire Chief, or designee, other Code or law
enforcement, Planning Commission or township official. Failure to allow
inspection is a violation of this section and the zoning official may seek an
administrative warrant to inspect the property and structures for purposes of
enforcement and failure to allow inspection shall also be considered an
incomplete application.
   (E)   Other commercial cultivation establishments prohibited.
      (1)   Provisioning and other commercial facilities prohibited. It shall
continue to be unlawful to establish or operate a for-profit or nonprofit
marihuana dispensary, collective, commercial use, cooperative, provisioning
center or medical marihuana facilities within the township, even if such use is
intended for the medical use of marihuana. It is the intent of this section to
prohibit the pooling of caregiver cards to establish more allowable plant
growth or a larger growth operation beyond five qualified registered patients
per caregiver as permitted by the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Michigan
Initiated Law 1 of 2008, M.C.L.A. 333.26421, et seq. It is the intent of this
section to affirm the township has opted out of the Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act, Act 281 of 2016 or other State of Michigan law, and
only one caregiver per parcel may be approved, except as otherwise allowed by
this section.
      (2)   Commercial marihuana facility establishments prohibited. Any and
all types of a “marihuana establishment,” as that term is defined and used in
Michigan Initiated Law 1 of 2018, commonly known as the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marihuana Act, are completely prohibited in Mussey Township and may
not be established or operated in any zoning district, by any means, including
by way of a variance. Any and all types of “marihuana facilities” as described
in Act 281 of 2016, the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act are
completely prohibited and may not be established, licensed or operated in any
zoning district, by any means, including by way of a variance.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Municipal civil infraction. Violation of this section shall be a
Municipal Civil Infraction as authorized under Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the
Public Acts of 1961, M.C.L.A. 600.8701 et seq. as amended.
      (2)   Municipal violation notice. The penalty for a notice of violation
under the authority of M.C.L.A. 600.8707(6) is as described under Title III
Administration, Chapter 31, Civil Infractions payable at the Township Violation
Bureau.
      (3)   Municipal civil infraction. The sanction and penalty for a
municipal civil infraction shall be payable at the court. The sanction for a
municipal civil infraction shall be up to $500, plus additional costs, damages,
expenses and other sanctions and injunctive relief, as authorized under the
Municipal Civil Infraction Statute Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts
of 1961, as amended. This section shall be enforceable to the fullest extent
allowed under the Municipal Civil Infraction enabling statute as authorized
under Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, Section 600.8701 et
seq. as amended.
      (4)   Authorized local official. This section shall be enforced by the
Supervisor or designee, Chief Code Enforcement Officer of the Township, the
Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer, and/or by such other persons and/or
officials who shall be so designated by the Mussey Township Board.
      (5)   Additional remedies. A violator of this section shall also be
subject to such additional sanctions, remedies, and/or judicial orders and/or
judgments as are authorized and provided under the statutes and laws of the
State of Michigan. Each day a violation of this section occurs and/or continues
to exist, constitutes a separate violation. Any violation of this section is
declared to be a public nuisance per se.
      (6)   Court actions. By its adoption of this section, Mussey Township
does not waive and/or relinquish any of its authority and/or power afforded to
it under the statutes, laws and Court Rules of the State of Michigan for the
enforcement of its township ordinances. The township specifically reserves and
retains the right to commence appropriate legal proceedings for equitable,
injunction on and/or other relief and/or remedies available to the township by
actions and suits filed in the Circuit Court for the County of St. Clair, in
addition to the commencement of actions and/or filing of complaints in the
District Court for the County of St. Clair.
      (7)   Nuisance. Violation of this section may also be enforced as a
nuisance pursuant to the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. 125.3407 or
applicable law. The court shall order the nuisance abated, and the owner or
agent in charge of the dwelling, building, structure, facility, tent,
recreational vehicle, or land is liable for all costs and fees to abate for
maintaining a nuisance per se.
      (8)   Nothing in this section shall limit any privileges, rights,
immunities or defenses of a person as provided in the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, Michigan Initiated Law 1 of 2008, MCL 333.26421, et seq. other
State of Michigan law.
   (G)   Nonuse variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a nonuse
variance for structures, buildings, enclosed locked facilities under this
section as long as the spirit of this section is observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done pursuant to the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act 110 of 2006 as amended and the Mussey Township Zoning Ordinance for
variance standards now or later enacted. The Zoning Board of Appeals may not
grant a use variance for a Home Occupation Medical Marihuana primary caregivers
or facilities.
   (H)   Post recitals.
      (1)   Summary of the regulatory effect. This new section regulates
medical marihuana caregivers as a home occupation as a land use in all
geographic areas.
      (2)   Effective date. This zoning ordinance amendment shall take effect
upon the expiration of seven days after publication. Following adoption of this
zoning ordinance the clerk shall publish a notice of ordinance adoption in a
newspaper of general circulation in the local unit of government within 15 days
after adoption.
      (3)   Availability. A copy of this section shall be available at the
Office of the Clerk and may be purchased or inspected during regular business
hours.
      (4)   Conflict with other ordinances. All ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby to be read consistent with this
section and are repealed only to the extent necessary to give this section full
force and effect.
      (5)   Severability. Should any portion of this section be held invalid
for any reason, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of any of the remaining portions of this section.
      (6)   Compatibility. To the extent this section is in conflict with the
procedures under the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, the
MZEA shall apply.
(Ord. 44, passed 2-9-2022)
§ 153.246 SOLAR FARMS.
   A)   Intent and purpose. To promote the use of solar energy within Mussey
Township as a clean alternative energy source and to provide for the land
development, installation and construction regulations for large photovoltaic
solar farm facilities subject to reasonable conditions that will protect the
public health, safety and welfare. These regulations establish minimum
requirements and standards for the placement, construction and modification of
large photovoltaic solar farm facilities, while promoting a renewable energy
source for our community in a safe, effective and efficient manner.
   (B)   Minimum lot size. Large photovoltaic solar farm facilities shall not
be constructed on parcels less than 20 acres in size.
   (C)   Height restrictions. All photovoltaic panels located in a solar farm
shall be restricted to a height of 14 feet.
   (D)   Setbacks. All photovoltaic solar panels and support structures
associated with such facilities (excluding perimeter security fencing) shall be
a minimum of ten feet from a side or rear property line and a minimum of 20
feet from any road or highway right-of-way.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. Maximum lot coverage restrictions shall not
apply to photovoltaic solar panels. Any other regulated structures on the
parcel are subject to maximum lot coverage restrictions.
   (F)   Safety/access. A security fence (height and material to be established
through the special use permit process) shall be placed around the perimeter of
the solar power plant and electrical equipment shall be locked. Knox box and
keys shall be provided at locked entrances for emergency personnel access.
   (G)   Noise. No large photovoltaic solar farm facilities shall exceed 65 dBA
as measured at the property line.
   (H)   Landscaping. Large photovoltaic solar farm facilities shall be
required to install perimeter landscaping equal to one tree for each 25 feet of
road or highway frontage. The equivalent of one tree shall be required along
the sides and rear of such developments equal to one tree every 25 feet of
property line when abutting existing homes or developed parcels. The Planning
Commission may alter the landscaping requirement depending upon the location
and existing plant material on the site. Trees shall be a minimum of four feet
tall when planted and remain in good condition for the life of the large
photovoltaic solar farm.
   (I)   Local, state and federal permits. Large photovoltaic solar farm
facilities shall be required to obtain all necessary permits from the U.S.
Government, State of Michigan and Mussey Township and comply with standards of
the State of Michigan adopted codes.
   (J)   Electrical interconnections. All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes and standard
commercial large-scale utility requirements. Use of above ground transmission
lines shall be prohibited within the site.
   (K)   Additional special use criteria. The following topics shall be
addressed in a special use application for such large photovoltaic solar farm
facilities in addition to the special use review criteria.
      (1)   Project description and rationale. Identify the type, size, rated
power output, performance, safety and noise characteristics of the system,
including the name and address of the manufacturer and model. Identify time
frame, project life, development phases, likely markets for the generated
energy and possible future expansions.
      (2)   Analysis of onsite traffic. Estimated construction jobs, estimated
permanent jobs associated with the development.
      (3)   Visual impacts. Review and demonstrate the visual impact using
photos or renditions of the project or similar projects with consideration
given to tree plantings and setback requirements.
      (4)   Wildlife. Review potential impact on wildlife on the site.
      (5)   Environmental analysis. Identify impact analysis on the water
quality and water supply in the area.
      (6)   Waste. Identify solid waste or hazardous waste generated by the
project.
      (7)   Lighting. Provide lighting plans showing all lighting within the
facility. No light may adversely affect adjacent parcels. All lighting must be
shielded from adjoining parcels, and light poles are restricted to 18 feet in
height.
      (8)   Transportation plan. Provide access plan during construction and
operation phases. Show proposed project service road ingress and egress access
onto primary and secondary routes, layout of the plant service road system. Due
to infrequent access to such facilities after construction is completed, it is
not required to pave or curb solar panel access drives. It will be necessary to
pave and curb any driveway and parking lots used for occupied offices that are
located on site.
      (9)   Public safety. Identify emergency and normal shutdown procedures.
Identify potential hazards to adjacent properties, public roadways and to the
community in general that may be created.
      (10)   Sound limitations and review. Identify noise levels at the
property line of the project boundary when completed.
      (11)   Telecommunications interference. Identify electromagnetic fields
and communications interference generated by the project.
      (12)   Life of the project and final reclamation.
         (a)   To ensure proper removal of a photovoltaic solar farm energy
system when it is abandoned, any application for approval of a new photovoltaic
solar farm shall include a description of the financial security guaranteeing
removal of the system which must be posted at the time of receiving a
construction permit for the facility. The security shall be:
            1.   A cash bond;
            2.   An irrevocable bank letter of credit; or
            3.   A performance bond in a form approved by the township.
         (b)   The amount of such guarantee shall be no less than the estimated
cost of removal and may include a provision for inflationary cost adjustments.
The estimate shall be prepared by the engineer for the developer and shall be
subject to approval by the township.
         (c)   If the property owner fails to remove or repair the defective or
abandoned system, the township may pursue legal action to have the system
removed and assess its cost to the tax roll. The applicant shall be responsible
for the payment of any costs and attorney fees incurred by the township in
securing removal of the structure.
   (L)   (1)   The Planning Commission review. Because of the ever-changing
technical capabilities of photovoltaic solar panels and of new technology in
general, the Planning Commission shall have the authority to review and
consider alternatives in both dimensional requirements as well as physical
development requirements found in this section. The Planning Commission shall
not have the authority to review or to allow photovoltaic solar farm facilities
within any other zoning district.
      (2)   Alternatives.
         (a)   For a request for alternatives set forth in this section, for
either dimensional requirements as well as physical development requirements
found in this section, the applicant shall present in writing prior to the
Planning Commission hearing:
            1.   The alternatives requested;
            2.   The reasons for the deviation;
            3.   Supporting documentation for the deviation;
            4.   The lot size and location of the proposed solar farm; and
            5.   The number, size, make and location of the solar components.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may grant the deviation based upon
changing technology to the extent the request is within the reasonable spirt of
the standards under this section.
      (3)   Minimum lot size. The Planning Commission may consider a joint
application of adjacent properties. When a joint application is made for
adjacent properties, all owners must agree to and make a joint request for
reduction to the minimum lot size of 20 acres within the joint application. In
addition to the standards set forth herein, the Planning Commission shall
consider the impact on both properties, the size of the properties, the setback
requirements, the impact on neighboring properties, the use of mechanical
devices common to both properties, the grant of necessary easements, the size
and location of the solar components, the joint use components, and other
reasonable conditions. The Planning Commission may request additional
information or documentation in order to make an informed decision on a solar
farm special land use request.
   (M)   (1)   Solar farms shall be considered a special land use and allowed
in the Agricultural and Light Industrial zones. The property owner or agent
must apply for a special land use permit applying the standards in this section
and under this subchapter - Special Land Use Approval Requirements, and the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, (MZEA), Public Act 110 of 2006.
      (2)   The applicant shall present an application on a form approved by
the township and a detailed site plan. The Planning Commission shall make
notifications and hold hearing as required under the MZEA. The Planning
Commission shall review the special land use application, and may deny,
approve, or approve with conditions a request for special land use approval.
The decision on a special land use shall be incorporated in a statement of
findings and conclusions relative to the special land use which specifies the
basis for the decision and any conditions imposed.
(Ord. 41, passed 10-14-2020)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AS TO AREA, HEIGHT AND USE
§ 153.255 INTERPRETATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be subject to the following
interpretations and exceptions.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.256 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the township.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.257 VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
township or other public election.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.258 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to farm buildings,
chimneys, church spires, flag poles, public monuments or wireless transmission
towers; provided however, that the Planning Commission may specify a height
limit for any such structure when such structure requires authorization as a
special land use.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.259 LOT AREA.
   (A)   Any lot existing and of record at the time this chapter became
effective may be used for any principal use permitted, other than special land
uses for which special lot area requirements are specified in this chapter, in
the district in which such lot is located whether or not such lot complies with
the lot area requirements of this chapter, except as provided in §
153.167(B), Nonconforming Lots, of this chapter.
   (B)   Such use may be made provided that all requirements other than lot
area requirements prescribed in this chapter are complied with, and provided
that not more than one dwelling unit shall occupy any lot except in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter for required lot area for each dwelling
unit.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.260 YARD REGULATIONS.
   When yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with, as in the case of
a planned development in the Multiple-Family District, or where their
application cannot be determined on lots of peculiar shape, topography or due
to architectural or site arrangement, such regulations may be modified or
determined by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.261 RESIDENTIAL YARD FENCES.
   Fences or walls of not more than six feet in height may be constructed in
residential districts within a required rear or side yard, and not more than 30
inches in height within a required front yard, such as along the property line.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.275 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Building Inspector or by such deputies of his or her department as the Building
Inspector may delegate to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.276 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to grant zoning compliance
and occupancy permits, to make inspections of buildings or premises necessary
to carry out his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for the Building Inspector to approve any plans or issue any permits
or certificates of occupancy for any excavation or construction until he or she
has inspected such plans in detail and found them to conform with this chapter.
   (B)   Under no circumstances is the Building Inspector permitted to make
changes in this chapter nor to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying out
his or her duties as Building Inspector.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall not refuse to issue a permit when
conditions imposed by this chapter are complied with by the applicant despite
violations of contracts, such as covenants or private agreements which may
occur upon the granting of said permit.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.277 PLOT PLAN.
   The Building Inspector shall require that all applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by plans and specifications including a plot plan,
in triplicate, drawn to scale, showing the following:
   (A)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot;
   (B)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to
be erected, altered or moved and of any building or other structures already on
the lot;
   (C)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all such structures
upon it, including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate; and
   (D)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.278 PERMITS.
   The following shall apply in the issuance of any permit.
   (A)   Permits not to be issued. No building permit shall be issued for the
erection, alteration of use of any building or structure or part thereof, or
for the use of any land, which is not in accordance with all provisions of this
chapter and other ordinances.
   (B)   Permits required.
      (1)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be hereinafter
erected, altered, moved or repaired unless a building permit shall have been
first issued for such work. The term ALTERED and REPAIRED shall include any
changes in structural parts, stairways, type of construction, type, class or
kind of occupancy, light or ventilation, means of egress and ingress or other
changes affecting or regulated by the township building code, Housing Law,
Public Act 167 of 1917, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., of the state, or
this chapter, except for minor repairs or changes not involving any of the
aforesaid features.
      (2)   Construction plans for water mains, sanitary sewers, paving, storm
drainage facilities and site grading, approved by the Township Engineer, shall
also accompany an application for a building permit, where necessary.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.279 CERTIFICATES.
   No land, building or part thereof, shall hereafter be occupied by or for any
use, unless and until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued for
such use. The following shall apply in the issuance of any certificates.
   (A)   Certificate for new use of land. No land heretofore vacant shall
hereafter be used or an existing use of land be hereafter changed to a use of a
different class or type unless a certificate of occupancy is first obtained for
the new or different use.
   (B)   Certificate for new use of buildings. No building or structure, or
part thereof, shall be changed to or occupied by a use of a different class or
type unless a certificate of occupancy is first obtained for the new or
different use.
   (C)   Certificate not to be issued. No certificate of occupancy shall be
issued for any buildings, structure or part thereof, or for the use of any land
which is not in accordance with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Certificates required. No building or structure, or parts thereof,
which is hereafter erected or altered, shall be occupied or used or the same
caused to be done, unless and until a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued for such building or structure.
   (E)   Certificates including zoning. Certificates of occupancy as required
by the township building code for new buildings or structures, or parts
thereof, or for alterations to or changes of use of existing buildings or
structures, shall also constitute certificates of occupancy as required by this
chapter.
   (F)   Certificates for existing buildings. Certificates of occupancy shall
be issued for existing buildings, structures or parts thereof, or existing uses
of land if, after inspection, it is found that such buildings, structures or
parts thereof, or such use of land, are in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (G)   Records of certificates. A record of all certificates issued shall be
kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector, and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the property involved.
   (H)   Certificates of dwelling accessory buildings. Buildings or structures
accessory to dwellings shall not require separate certificates of occupancy but
may be included in the certificate of occupancy for the dwelling which shown on
the plot plan and when completed at the same time as such dwelling.
   (I)   Application for certificates.
      (1)   Application for certificates of occupancy shall be made in writing
to the Building Inspector on forms furnished by him or her, and such
certificates shall be issued within five days after receipt of such application
if it is found that the building or structures or part thereof, or the use of
land is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If such certificate is refused for cause, the applicant therefor
shall be notified of such refusal and cause thereof, within the aforesaid five-
day period.
   (J)   Permits for temporary placement of a travel trailer as a residence or
as a contractor’s on-site construction office.
      (1)   The Building Inspector may issue a permit for the temporary
placement of a travel trailer for use as temporary living quarters during the
actual construction of a single-family dwelling or as a contractor’s on-site
construction office, subject to the following.
         (a)   The initial permit period shall not exceed 12 months. One
extension not to exceed 12 months may be granted provided a valid building
permit has been obtained and significant progress is being made toward
completion of the permanent building, as determined by the Building Inspector.
         (b)   The travel trailer shall be properly connected to an approved
septic tank/tile field disposal system and an adequate water supply well prior
to occupancy.
         (c)   A cash performance guarantee shall be deposited, in an amount
established by resolution of the Township Board, to ensure removal of the
travel trailer unit upon expiration of the temporary permit.
      (2)   In the event of total loss of a dwelling or its being rendered
uninhabitable due to fire, tornado, flood or similar natural disaster, the
Building Inspector may approve the temporary placement of a travel trailer on
the owner’s property for use as a residence while the dwelling is being rebuilt
or replaced, subject to the following.
         (a)   A building permit for repair or replacement of the permanent
residence must be obtained prior to placement of the temporary unit.
         (b)   The initial permit period for the temporary residence shall not
exceed six months and not more than two extensions of three months each may be
granted by the Building Inspector.
      (c)   A cash performance guarantee shall be deposited, in an amount
established by resolution of the Township Board, to ensure removal of the
temporary dwelling unit upon expiration of the temporary permit.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.280 FINAL INSPECTION.
   The holder of every building permit for the construction, erection,
alteration, repair or moving of any building, structure or part thereof shall
notify the Building Inspector immediately upon the completion of the work
authorized by such permit, for the final inspection.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.281 FEES.
   Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or certificates or copies
thereof required or issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
collected by the Building Inspector in advance of issuance. The amount of such
fees shall be established by resolution of the Township Board and shall cover
the cost of inspection and supervision resulting from enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.282 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or
interfere with any existing provision of law or this chapter, or with any
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued or which shall be
adopted or issued pursuant to the law relating to the use of buildings or
premises; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than is required by existing ordinance or by rules, regulations or
permits, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.283 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have those powers and
duties as prescribed by law, and such other duties as are established in this
chapter, including:
      (1)   Prepare and maintain a general development plan;
      (2)   Review and make recommendations to the Township Board regarding
adoption of a zoning ordinance and subsequent amendments thereto;
      (3)   Review and decide special land uses in accordance with this
chapter;
      (4)   Review and approve site plans in accordance with this chapter;
      (5)   Review and make recommendation to the Township Board regarding
tentative preliminary plat review of subdivisions under Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended;
      (6)   Review and approval of proposed public works projects;
      (7)   Conduct necessary public hearings as required by law regarding
matters before the Commission for review, recommendation or approval; and
      (8)   Review and take appropriate action on all other matters which are
subject to Planning Commission review authority as required by law.
   (B)   Meetings and records.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold regular meetings as scheduled
each year. The Planning Commission shall also conduct such special meetings as
shall be called by the Chair.
      (2)   All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be conducted in
compliance with Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through
15.275, as amended, the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   Applicants shall appear at hearing(s) regarding their case, either
personally or by designated representatives who are authorized by the applicant
to act on their behalf for purposes of the application. The Planning Commission
may conduct required hearings and reach a decision on all applications without
the applicant being present if the applicant does not request a continuance or
postponement in writing prior to the hearing.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall make no decision except in a specific
case and after required hearing, if applicable.
      (5)   A simple majority of the members of the Planning Commission shall
constitute a quorum, without which the Planning Commission shall not conduct
business. The concurring vote of a simple majority of the members of the
Planning Commission shall be required to pass a motion regarding any matter
brought before the Commission, unless otherwise required by state law, this
chapter or township ordinances.
      (6)   The Secretary shall prepare and maintain minutes of all Planning
Commission proceedings. The minutes shall be the final authority on proceedings
of the Planning Commission. The Commission shall approve all minutes prior to
their designation and use as the official record of proceedings. Where a
written record is required or requested, the approved minutes, along with any
plans or other information submitted with the application shall constitute the
written decision.
      (7)   The official records of the Planning Commission shall be maintained
by the Township Clerk or the administrative official so designated.
      (8)   The Planning Commission may adopt by-laws for the conduct of its
meetings and hearings.
   (C)   Appeals from decisions of the Planning Commission. Appeals from
decisions of the Planning Commission shall be taken in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.284 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The Township Board may from time to time, on recommendation from the
Planning Commission, on its own motion, or on petition, amend, supplement or
change this chapter in accordance with the procedure established by state law.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.285 FEES - PETITION FOR AMENDMENT.
   Upon presentation of petition for amendment of this chapter by the owner of
real estate to be affected, such petition shall be accompanied by a fee. The
amount of such fee shall be set by resolution of the Township Board and shall
be paid to the Township Clerk to partly defray the expense of said public
hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.286 PUBLIC NUISANCE PER SE.
   Any building or structure which is erected, altered or converted, or any use
of premises of land which is begun or changed subsequent to the time of passage
of this chapter and in violation of any of the provisions thereof is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance per se, and may be abated by order of any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.287 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF BUILDING ASSISTING IN VIOLATION.
   The owner of any building, structure or premises or part thereof, where any
condition in violation of this chapter shall exist or shall be created, and who
has assisted knowingly in the commission of such violation shall be guilty of a
separate offense and upon conviction thereof shall be liable to the fines and
imprisonment herein provided.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.288 VARIANCE.
   A zoning variance is a modification of the literal provisions of this
chapter granted when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship due to
circumstances unique to the individual property on which the variance is
granted. The crucial points of variance are undue hardship, and unique
circumstances applied to property. A variance is not justified unless all of
these elements are present in the case.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.289 VESTED RIGHT.
   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or construed to give rise to
any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular use,
district, zoning classification or any permissible activities therein; and they
are hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change or
modifications as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.305 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA herein) is hereby created to carry out
the responsibilities and exercise the authority provided in this chapter and in
Public Act 184 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 through 125.301, as amended.
The ZBA shall carry out its duties so that the objectives and spirit of this
chapter shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The ZBA shall consist of three members. The first member shall also be
a member of the Township Planning Commission. The remaining members of the ZBA
shall be selected from the electors of the township residing outside of
incorporated cities and villages. The members selected shall be representative
of the population distribution and of the various interests present in the
township. One member may be a member of the Township Board. An employee or
contractor of the Township Board may not serve as a member of the ZBA.
   (C)   The compensation, if any, paid to ZBA members for discharge of their
duties shall be established by resolution of the Township Board. A failure of
action on the part of the Township Board in any year shall be effective action
to re-establish the same compensation from the prior year.
   (D)   Members of the ZBA shall be removable by the Township Board for
nonperformance of duty or misconduct in office upon written charges and after
public hearing.
   (E)   The term of each member shall be three years, except for members
serving by reason of membership on the Planning Commission or Township Board,
in which case the terms of such members shall be concurrent with and limited to
their respective terms as members of the Planning Commission or Township Board
and consistent with the periods stated in the resolutions appointing such
members. When members are first appointed to the ZBA, the appointments may be
for less than three years in order to provide for staggered terms.
   (F)   Following the expiration of the term of a ZBA member, a successor
shall be appointed not more than one month after the term of the proceeding
member has expired.
   (G)   All vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled for the remainder of
the term.
   (H)   The Township Board may appoint not more than two alternate members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals who shall serve as a member of the Board upon the
call of the chairperson where a regular member is absent from or unable to
attend two or more consecutive meetings of the Board or for a period of 30
consecutive days. An alternate member may also be called to serve in the place
of a regular member for the purpose of reaching a decision on a case in which
the regular member has abstained for reasons of conflict of interest. The
alternate member having been appointed shall serve in cases he or she hears as
a regular member of the Board of Appeals. Appointments of alternate members for
the first year shall be for a period of one and two years respectively,
thereafter each alternate member shall hold office for the full three-year
term.
   (I)   A member shall disqualify himself or herself from all discussion and
voting in which the member has a conflict of interest.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.306 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The ZBA shall annually elect a chairperson, a vice chairperson and a
secretary, each to serve for one year. An elected officer of the township shall
not serve as chairperson of the ZBA. Such election shall be held at the first
regular meeting of the ZBA following January 1 in each calendar year, or at the
first regular meeting of the ZBA following departure of an existing officer
from the ZBA.
   (B)   The chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the ZBA. In the
absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall preside. The presiding
officer, subject to these rules, shall decide all points of order or procedure.
The chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting chairperson, may
administer oaths.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.307 AUTHORITY OF ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In general. The ZBA shall have authority to act on those matters where
this chapter provides for administrative review, appeal, interpretation or
special approval appeal, and shall have authority to authorize a variance as
defined in this chapter and laws of the state. The ZBA shall not have the
authority to alter or change zoning district classifications of any property,
nor to make any change in the text of this chapter.
   (B)   Administrative review. The ZBA shall have authority to hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in an order, requirement,
permit, decision or refusal made by an official, board or commission in
carrying out or enforcing any provisions of this chapter. In hearing and
deciding appeals under this division, ZBA review shall be based upon the record
of the administrative decision being appealed, and the ZBA shall not consider
new information which has not been presented to the Administrative Official,
Board or Commission from whom the appeal is taken. The ZBA shall not substitute
its judgment for that of the administrative official, board or commission being
appealed, and the appeal shall be limited to determining, based upon the
record, whether the administrative official, board or commission breached a
duty or discretion in this chapter.
   (C)   Interpretation. The ZBA shall have authority to hear and decided
requests for interpretation of the zoning ordinance, including the zoning map.
The ZBA shall make such decision so that the spirit and intent of this chapter
shall be observed. Text interpretations shall be limited to the issues
presented, and shall be based upon a reading of the chapter as a whole, and
shall not have the effect of amending the chapter. Map interpretations shall be
made based upon rules in the chapter and any relevant historical information.
In carrying out its authority to interpret the chapter, the ZBA shall consider
reasonable and/or practical interpretations which have been consistently
applied in the administration of the chapter. Prior to deciding a request for
an interpretation, the ZBA may confer with staff and/or consultants to
determine the basic purpose of the provision subject to interpretation and any
consequences which may result from differing decisions. A decision providing an
interpretation may be accompanied by a recommendation for consideration of an
amendment of the chapter.
   (D)   Special land use approval appeals. The ZBA shall have authority to
hear and decide appeals from the decision of the Planning Commission regarding
special land use approvals. In deciding such appeals, the ZBA shall review the
Planning Commission’s application of the specific special land use approval
standards applicable. The method and scope of appellate review under this
division (D) shall be governed by the same standards applicable to review under
division (B) above. The ZBA shall be authorized to impose conditions determined
appropriate by the ZBA, and as authorized by law, in connection with a decision
on a special land use approval appeal.
   (E)   Variances. The ZBA shall have authority in specific cases to authorize
one or more variances from the strict letter and terms of this chapter by
varying or modifying any of its rules or provisions so that the spirit of this
chapter is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. Such
authority shall be exercised in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   The ZBA may grant a requested non-use variance only upon a finding
that practical difficulties exist. A finding of practical difficulties shall
require demonstration by the applicant of all of the following.
         (a)   Strict compliance with restrictions governing area, setback,
frontage, height, bulk, density or other non-use matters, will unreasonably
prevent the owner from using the property for a permitted purpose or will
render ordinance conformity unnecessarily burdensome.
         (b)   The variance will do substantial justice to the applicant, as
well as to other property owners.
         (c)   A lesser variance than requested will not give substantial
relief to the applicant and/or be consistent with justice to other property
owners.
         (d)   The need for the variance is due to unique circumstances
peculiar to the property and not generally applicable in the area or to other
properties in the same zoning district.
         (e)   The problem and resulting need for the variance has not been
self-created by the applicant.
      (2)   In all variance proceedings, it shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to provide information, plans, testimony and evidence from which the
ZBA may make the required findings. Administrative officials and other persons
may, but shall not be required to provide information, testimony and evidence
on a variance request. The fact that a township representative does not appear
and/or present information, testimony and/or evidence on a particular variance
request, shall not be considered or construed as being a waiver of the right to
make such a presentation at a later date or an acknowledgment that the
information, testimony and/or evidence does not exist, and shall not be
evidence, in and of itself, that a variance should be granted.
      (3)   The following are specified as appropriate considerations by the
ZBA in hearing and deciding variance requests, provided, this list shall in no
respect constitute a limitation upon the considerations which may be made by
the ZBA:
         (a)   Other lands, structures, buildings, lots and uses in the same
district and in the general vicinity of the property in question;
         (b)   Whether granting the variance will confer special privileges on
the applicant that have been denied by this chapter and/or ZBA in other cases;
         (c)   Whether the requested variance is the minimum necessary to
authorize reasonable use of the property in relation to the surrounding area;
         (d)   Reasonable and available alternatives, which, although not
requested by the applicant, would minimize or eliminate the need for variance
relief;
         (e)   The provisions of this chapter from which a variance is
requested, including the purpose and intent of such provisions within the
context of the chapter as a whole;
         (f)   The imposition of appropriate and authorized conditions; and/or
         (g)   The existence of nonconforming structures, uses of land or the
combination of structures and uses, shall not be used as a basis or rationale
for granting a variance.
   (F)   Conditions.
      (1)   The ZBA may impose reasonable conditions in connection with an
affirmative decision on an appeal, interpretation or variance request. The
conditions may include requirements necessary to ensure adequacy of public
services and facilities affected by a proposed use or activity, to protect the
natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to ensure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land and to promote the use of land in a
socially and economically desirable manner.
      (2)   Conditions imposed shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare and the social and economic well-being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity and the community as a whole;
         (b)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and
purposes which are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
         (c)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter, be
related to the standards established in the ordinance for the land use or
activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards.
      (3)   Conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a variance shall
be recorded as part of the ZBA minutes, and shall remain unchanged except upon
the mutual consent of the ZBA and the landowner following notice and hearing as
required for a new case or application. Moreover, to ensure adequate notice of
a decision and any conditions, the ZBA may require as a condition to the
effectiveness of relief granted that the property owner record with County
Register of Deeds, in a form acceptable to the ZBA, an affidavit detailing the
relief granted and conditions imposed.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.308 APPLICATIONS AND NOTICES; EFFECT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   All applications to the ZBA shall be filed with the Township Clerk, on
forms provided by the township, and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee
established by resolution of the Township Board. Applications shall include all
plans, studies and other information and data to be relied upon by the
applicant.
   (B)   The plan which shall accompany all variance requests shall be based on
a mortgage survey, or land survey prepared by a registered land surveyor. The
plan shall be to scale and shall include all property lines and dimensions,
setbacks and all existing and proposed structures. The Zoning Board of Appeals
has the authority to require a land survey prepared by a registered land
surveyor when the ZBA determines it to be necessary to ensure accuracy of the
plan.
   (C)   At least one week prior to the date of a scheduled hearing before the
ZBA, all property, parcels and/or lots which are the subject of a ZBA hearing
shall be marked and staked in the following manner.
      (1)   Each corner of the lot or parcel shall be staked.
      (2)   Each corner of the proposed building(s) shall be staked.
      (3)   Vacant parcels shall be posted with a clearly visible sign noting
the address or lot number.
   (D)   The ZBA shall have no obligation to consider and/or grant a request
for relief unless and until a conforming and complete application has been
filed; including relevant plans, studies and other information.
   (E)   As a condition to invoking the jurisdiction of the ZBA, an appeal
under §
153.307(B) or (D) shall be taken by the applicant within 30 days of the date of
the order, refusal, requirement or determination from which the appeal is being
taken.
   (F)   In a case involving an appeal from an action of an administrative
official, the administrative official, upon notice from the ZBA, shall transmit
to the ZBA copies of all papers constituting the record upon which the action
was taken.
   (G)   Applications to the ZBA shall be made with full knowledge and written
consent of all owners of the property in question. This requirement shall
include the consent of a land contract seller to the relief sought by a land
contract purchaser.
   (H)   The Township Clerk, or designee, shall provide public notice of a ZBA
public hearing in accordance with the public hearing publication and
notification procedures required for a rezoning or special land use approval
request. Other persons may be notified at the discretion of the ZBA. Where the
case does not relate to a specific site, notification shall be made in the
newspaper only.
   (I)   An appeal shall have the effect of staying all proceedings in
furtherance of the action being appealed unless the officer or entity from whom
the appeal is taken certifies to the ZBA that, by reason of facts stated in
such certification, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent peril to
life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed unless
specifically determined by the ZBA, or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.309 MEETING AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The ZBA shall conduct regular meetings as scheduled each year, or at
the call of the chairperson. The chairperson shall set the time and date for
meetings. The ZBA shall also conduct such special meetings as shall be called
by the chairperson and/or by a majority of the ZBA members. All meetings of the
ZBA shall be conducted in accordance with Public Act 267 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, as amended, the Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   Applicants shall appear at the hearing, either personally or by
designated representative whose identity and authority shall be conformed by
the applicant in writing. Nothing in this division (B) shall relieve the
applicant from providing competent testimony or evidence in support of the
relief requested, including responses to questions or requests by the ZBA
regarding the applicant’s position on a relevant issue and/or possible
conditions on a favorable decision. The ZBA may conduct the required hearing
and reach a decision on all applications without the applicant being present if
applicant does not request a continuance in writing prior to the hearing.
   (C)   The ZBA shall make no decision except in a specific case and after
required hearing.
   (D)   Two members of the ZBA shall constitute a quorum, without which the
ZBA shall not conduct business. The concurring vote of a majority of the
membership of the ZBA shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of an administrative official, board or commission
made in the administration of this chapter, or to decide in favor of an
applicant on any matter upon which the ZBA is required to pass under this
chapter, or to grant a variance from the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   The Secretary of the ZBA shall prepare minutes of the ZBA proceedings,
showing the findings, decisions, conditions, if any and votes of each member in
each case, including a member’s absence or failure to vote. The minutes shall
be within the ultimate authority, and shall be the responsibility of, the
secretary of the ZBA, and shall be subject to approval of the ZBA. To the
extent that a written decision in a case is requested or required, the minutes,
along with the plan submitted, shall serve as the written decision, even if the
minutes are awaiting final ZBA approval.
   (F)   The official records of the ZBA proceedings shall be filed in the
Township Clerk’s office and shall be public records.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.310 DISPOSITION; DURATION OF APPROVAL; APPEAL.
   (A)   The ZBA may reverse, affirm, vary or modify any order, requirement,
decision or determination presented in a case within the ZBA’s jurisdiction,
and to that end, shall have all of the powers of the officer, board or
commission from whom the appeal is taken, subject to the ZBA’s scope of review,
as specified in this Ordinance and by law. The ZBA may remand a case for
further proceedings and decisions, with or without instructions.
   (B)   A decision by the ZBA shall be considered final as of the meeting at
which the decision has been made, and the date of such meeting shall be deemed
to be the date of notice of the decision to the applicant. To the extent that
decisions are requested or required to be in writing, the minutes of the ZBA
meeting, and decision, as prepared by the secretary, shall constitute the
written decision.
   (C)   Any decision of the ZBA shall remain valid only as long as the
information and data relating to such decisions are found to be correct, and
the conditions upon which the decision was based are maintained.
   (D)   The relief granted by the ZBA shall be valid for a period not longer
than one year, unless otherwise specified by the ZBA, and within such period of
effectiveness, actual, on-site improvement of property in accordance with the
approved plan and the relief granted, under a valid building permit, must be
commenced or the grant of relief shall be deemed void. Relief granted by the
ZBA shall not constitute approval of the use or activity where any other zoning
compliance, building permit, or other review or permit is required.
   (E)   Appeals of a ZBA decision shall be taken in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100 and cost of prosecution or, in
default of the payment thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not to exceed 90 days for each offense, or by both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court, together with the costs of
such prosecution.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
when a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative and in addition
to any other remedies provided by the law.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2000)
APPENDIX A: PLANNING AND ZONING FEE SCHEDULE
   MUSSEY TOWNSHIP
   PLANNING AND ZONING FEE SCHEDULE
   Effective July 9, 2008
Zoning ordinance book: $35
Master plan book: $25
 Township Administrative Non Refundable Consultant Refundable Escrow Deposit
 Fee1                    Fee2                      for Engineering/Legal/Misc.
                                                   Reviews3
               Township                                                                       Refundable Escrow Deposit
               Administrative Non Refundable Consultant Fee2                                  for Engineering/Legal/
               Fee1                                                                           Misc. Reviews3
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
Site Plan
Review -             $25$400 + $50/acre*                                                $2,500
Preliminary
Site Plan                  $200 + $25/acre*                                                See note
Review - Final
Minor Revision
- Prel. or                 50% of orig. fee                                                See note
Final
Major Redesign             90% of orig. fee                                                See note
   *Based on the portion of the parcel to be developed
MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
Site Plan                                                                                     $5,000 + $500/ac over 10
Review -          $250     $475 + $4.85/D.U.                                               ac
Preliminary
Site Plan                    $250 + $2.50/D.U.                                               See note
Review - Final
Minor Revision
- Prel. or                   50% or orig. fee                                                See note
Final
Major Redesign               90% of orig. fee                                                See note
MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS
Site Plan                                                                                     $5,000 + $500/ac over 10
Review -          $250     $375 + $5.90/D.U.                                               ac
Preliminary
Site Plan                    $200 + $3.00/D.U.                                               See note
Review - Final
Minor Revision
- Prel. or                   50% of orig. fee                                                See note
Final
Major Redesign               90% of orig. fee                                                See note
PUBLIC, SEMI-PUBLIC, INSTITUTIONAL
Site Plan
Review -          $250     $375 + $37.50/acre                                              $2,000
Preliminary
Site Plan                    $200 + $20/acre*                                                See note
Review - Final
Minor Revision
- Prel. or                   50% of orig. fee                                                See note
Final
Major Redesign                                                                               See note
   *Based on the portion of the parcel to be developed
SITE CONDOMINIUMS
Site Plan                                                                                     $3,000 + $100/D.U. over 10
Review -       $250           $375 + $4.75/D.U.                                               D.U.
Preliminary
Site Plan                     $200 + $2.50/D.U.                                               See note
Review - Final
Minor Revision
- Prel. or                    50% of orig. fee                                                See note
Final
Major Redesign                90% of orig. fee                                                See note
Placement of
Monuments and                                                                                 $100 per monument or iron
Irons
Guarantee
SUBDIVISION PLATS
Tentative                                                                                     $3,000 + $100/lot over 10
Preliminary    $250           $375 + $4.50/lot                                                lots
Plat
Final
Preliminary                   $240 + $2.75/lot                                                See note
Plan
Final Plat                    $4.75/lot ($175 min chg)                                        See note
Note: Changes to an approved preliminary plat must proceed as a new preliminary plat.
Placement of Monuments and                                                                      $100 per monument or
Irons Guarantee                                                                               iron
REZONINGS
Rezoning from
any zoning to  $250**         $450 + $4.50/acre                                               None (see exception below)
AG, SF or R-1
All other      $250**         $450 + $4.50/acre                                               None (see exception below)
rezonings
   ** Includes cost of preparing and publishing pubic hearing notice, obtaining map and list of properties within 300
feet, and mailing of public hearing notices to owners/occupants within 300 feet radius.
   Escrow Exception: An escrow deposit may be required in cases where a rezoning may entail use of consultants to
determine the feasibility or likelihood of utility extensions or if the intended use may involve on-site community wells
or sewage disposal systems. In such cases, the amount of the escrow deposit will be determined by the Township Clerk
upon advice of the planning consultant.
SPECIAL LAND USES
Single-Family
Residential,
or accessory
thereto
Note: Site     $250**         None unless planner review requested, then use planner’s fee  None (see exception below)
plan review                   schedule
fees are in
addition to
special land
use fees.
Other than
Single-Family
Residential
Note: Site                    $350 + $5/acre
plan review    $250**         Does not include site plan review (see schedule above by        $1,000
fees are in                   development type)
addition to
special land
use fees.
   ** Includes cost of preparing and publishing public hearing notice, obtaining map and list of properties within 300
feet, and mailing of public hearing notices to owners/occupants within 300 feet radius.
   Escrow Exception: An escrow deposit may be required in cases where a special land use may entail use of consultants
to determine the feasibility or likelihood of utility extensions or if the intended use may involve on-site community
wells or sewage disposal systems, or for other reasons, legal, engineering or specialized consultant review is
anticipated. In such cases, the amount of the escrow deposit will be determined by the Township Clerk upon advice of the
planning consultant.
LAND DIVISION OR COMBINATION
Resulting in 2
parcels        $25            None, unless planner review requested, then $135 + $45 per each None
(including                    resulting lot
parent)
More than 2
parcels        $250           Same as above                                                   None
(including
parent)
More than 2
parcels
(including
parent & with
internal road  $250           Same as above                                                   None
- not a
subdivision)
Note: New
private roads
not permitted.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Variance,
exception,                    None unless planner review requested, then $195 per variance
temporary use,    $350**   requested                                                       None
ordinance
interpretation
   ** Includes cost of preparing and publishing public hearing notice, obtaining map and list of properties within 300
feet, and mailing of public hearing notices to owners/occupants within 300 feet radius. A portion of this fee may be
refunded in cases where not all forms of notice are required per state statute.
CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
                 $350                                                                       None
OTHER PLANNING AND ZONING FEES
Special
meeting of     $350           $195 (only if req.)                                             None
Planning
Commission
Pre-design                                                                                    $150 additional deposit to
conference w/                 $90 (1 hr. min. chg.)                                           cover any additional time
consultant                                                                                    spent
Zoning
clearance                     None, unless planner review requested, then use planner’s fee
(when not      $50            schedule                                                        None
submitted w/
bldg permit)
Zoning
inspection &   $50            None, unless planner review requested, then use planner’s fee
compliance                    schedule
letter
Sign permit
application    $50 each4
review         $10 each4      None, see above                                                 None
Permanent sign
Temporary sign
Note # 1.    Township Administrative Fee.
 
This fee is intended to cover expenses incurred by township office staff when receiving and logging in an application,
initial review by the Zoning Administrator, forwarding of applications and sets of plans to the Planning Commission or
zoning Board of Appeals and/or to outside consultants for review. This fee also covers expenses incurred by the township
for preparation, publication and mailing of public notices, as may be required by local ordinance and/or state law. Any
services provided by the planning consultant in preparing the content of required public notices is to be paid from this
fee.
Note # 2.   Non Refundable Consultant Fee.
 
This fee is intended to cover the review of applications and plans by the township’s planning consultant. These review
fees include an on-site visit, but do not include attendance at the Planning Commission meeting. The specific fees
included herein are taken from the planning consultant’s standard fee schedule in effect at the time. Therefore, this
portion of the township fee schedule should be updated from time to time so as to incorporate any changes in the
consultant’s fee schedule. These fees are based upon the assumption that the applicant’s application materials are
complete and that drawings have been professionally prepared by persons familiar with zoning requirements. The
submission of incomplete, inadequate, or poorly prepared drawings, documents and/or application materials may result in
the need to revise and resubmit these items. This may involve multiple reviews by the consultant and result in
additional cost to the applicant. Adequate time should be set aside by the applicant’s professional design team to study
and comprehend applicable local regulations prior to preparing design plans and documents. an optional pre-design
conference with the planning consultant and the applicant and his or her design team is encouraged as a way to become
familiar with township requirements.
Note # 3.   General Policy Regarding Escrow Deposit Requirements.
 
The deposit shall be due when the application is submitted. The township will charge all review and inspection (not
building inspection) expenses to this deposit, including but not limited to planning, engineering, legal and
environmental assessment services.
 
The escrow account shall maintain a balance of not less than 30% of the original (opening) balance. If the township
determines that the account will require an additional deposit the amount of the additional deposit will be one-half of
the original escrow amount to remain active.
 
Any remaining funds in the escrow account will be released when the project is complete (all permanent measures are
installed and functioning, temporary measures are removed and final inspections have been approved).
 
Note: Minor vs. Major Revisions. A revision of a final site shall be determined to be minor if in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator (upon consultation with the Township Planner, as necessary), the nature and scope of the change
does not substantially change the approved site plan. The refundable deposit for plans involving only minor revisions
shall be one-half of the required deposit.
Note # 4.   Sign Permit Application Review.
 
Review of sign permit applications for conformance with zoning regulations will normally be performed by the Zoning
Administrator.
 
APPENDIX B: ZONING MAPS
CLICK_TO_VIEW_MAP_IN_PDF_FORMAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-723.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-725.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-727.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-729.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-731.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-733.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-735.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-737.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-739.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-741.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/113ab78881f1003d68e67379aa4d31539c21ecef/
IMAGES/0-0-0-743.jpg]
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
10       - -         Granting a gas franchise to Consumers Power Company for a
                     period of 30 years
42       7-14-2021   Granting a gas franchise to Consumers Energy Company for a
                     period of 30 years
43       11-10-2021  Granting a gas franchise to SEMCO Energy Gas Company for a
                     period of 30 years
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Amending the official zoning map by:
            (A)   Removing the following from the B-2 Highway-Ori ented Commercial
            District and to including the following in the R-1 Single-Famil y Rural
            Residential District:
               (1)   Parcel Tax ID# 74- 27-021- 2005-000
               (2)   15131 Imlay City Road
               (3)   15103 Imlay City Road
     9-11-     (4)   15085 Imlay City Road
34   2013      (5)   15071 Imlay City Road
               (6)   15051 Imlay City Road
            (B)   Removing the following from the B-2 Highway-Oriented Commercial
            District and including the following in the AG Agricultural District:
               (1)   15151 Downey Road
               (2)   Parcel Tax ID# 74-27-021-2046-000
               (3)   15183 Downey Road
               (4)   15187 Downey Road
               (5)   Parcel Tax ID# 74-27-021-2043-000
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites    Code Section
15.261—15.275   153.283,
                  153.309
28.451 et seq.    90.02,
                  90.04
41.181 et seq.    110.03
125.401 et seq.   153.278
125.539           93.03
125.271—125.301 153.284,
                  153.305
125.2301—125.235153.061,
                  153.150
125.3407          153.245
259.431 et seq.   153.190
259.481 et seq.   153.190,
                  153.243
286.471 et seq.   151.05
324.101 et seq.   153.185,
                  153.222
333.26421 et seq. 153.245
333.7105          130.01
436.1105          130.01
436.1109          130.01
559.101 et seq.   153.239
559.101—559.272 153.187
559.141           153.187
559.148           153.187
559.166           153.187
                  151.02,
                  151.03,
                  151.05,
                  151.08,
                  151.09,
560.101 et seq.   152.03,
                  152.18,
                  152.20,
                  152.42,
                  Ch. 152, App. B,
                  153.187,
                  153.239
560.101—560.293 153.284
560.113—560.119 152.17
560.120           152.17
560.201—560.213 152.19
600.101 et seq.   31.01
600.8396          31.01,
                  31.05
600.8701 et seq.  153.245
600.8701—600.87310.02
600.8705          31.03,
                  31.05
600.8707(6)       31.01,
                  153.245
600.8709          31.05
764.9a—764.9e   10.10
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     95.01—
2        6-13-1979   95.09,
                     95.99
10       - -         TSO I
7        1-13-1988   130.01,
                     130.99
                     152.01—
                     152.03,
                     152.15—
9b       6-8-1988    152.20,
                     152.35—
                     152.46,
                     152.61,
                     152.99
                     91.20—
12       3-9-1994    91.29,
                     91.99
                     150.01—
15       3-12-1997   150.04,
                     150.99
                     90.15—
16       11-12-1997  90.25,
                     90.99
                     151.01—
19       12-10-1997  151.11,
                     151.14,
                     Ch. 151, App. A
21       1-14-1998   31.01—
                     31.06
                     93.01—
22       1-14-1998   93.04,
                     93.99
                     153.001,
                     153.002,
                     153.015—
                     153.018,
                     153.030—
                     153.034,
                     153.045—
                     153.049,
                     153.060—
                     153.064,
                     153.075—
                     153.079,
                     153.090—
                     153.094,
                     153.105—
                     153.106—
-        10-11-2000  153.109,
                     153.120—
                     153.124,
                     153.135—
                     153.139,
                     153.150,
                     153.151,
                     153.165—
                     153.189,
                     153.205—
                     153.241,
                     153.255—
                     153.261,
                     153.275—
                     153.289,
                     153.305—
                     153.310,
                     153.999
14       11-10-2004  30.01 — 
                     30.07
05-01    4-13-2005   70.01—
                     70.09
8        11-9-2005   92.01—
                     92.13
23       1-10-2007   91.01—
                     91.06
                     153.032,
25       4-9-2008    153.106,
                     153.107,
                     153.242
                     153.002,
                     153.031,
26       6-10-2009   153.032,
                     153.169,
                     153.174
27       12-15-2010  153.222
                     153.002,
28       2-9-2011    153.190,
                     153.243
30       2-9-2011    153.191,
                     153.213
29B      12-14-2011  153.168 
32       2-13-2013   153.032,
                     153.244
33       5-8-2013    90.01—
                     90.04
34       9-11-2013   TSO II
29B      3-11-2015   153.168
22       7-8-2015    93.04,
                     93.99
-        12-9-2015   153.174
6        12-9-2015   153.137
                     96.01—
35       3-9-2016    96.09,
                     96.99
                     153.002,
                     153.031,
36       6-8-2016    153.034,
                     153.236,
                     153.191
38       2-8-2017    Adopting Ordinance
                     110.01 -
39       12-12-2018  110.07,
                     110.99
                     94.01—
40       12-12-2018  94.06,
                     94.99
41       10-14-2020  153.246
42       7-14-2021   TSO I
43       11-10-2021  TSO I
44       2-9-2022    153.245
                    
 
