PEWAMO, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 11-25-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Separability of provisions
   
10.98   Municipal civil infractions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Pewamo Code”.
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Village of Pewamo, Michigan.
      CODE.  The Pewamo Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Ionia, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation fines, damages, expenses and costs, may be ordered as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Chapter 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8801
through 600.8835. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense
of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of Pewamo, Michigan”.
Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the village is
assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, reference to that
officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TRUSTEE. The Trustees of the village.
      VILLAGE.  The Village of Pewamo, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The Council of Pewamo, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, section
or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code. All such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length in this code. The ordinances are on file in
the Village Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Ordinances not affected include:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the
village;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any
village officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Pewamo Code is
hereby amended to read as follows: [. . .].” The new provisions shall then be
set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Pewamo Code is hereby amended
by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads as follows: [. .
.].” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable, and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.98 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code designated as a municipal civil infraction
shall be punishable by a fine for a first offense of not less than $50, for a
second offense of not less than $250, and for a third or subsequent offense of
not less than $1,000, plus the costs of prosecution.
   (B)   Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties provided by this section, the district
court shall have the equitable jurisdiction to enforce any judgment, writ, or
order necessary to enforce any provision of this code, including, but not
limited to, abatement of the violating condition or the granting of any
injunctive relief.
   (D)   Contested hearings under this section before the district court may be
conducted as an informal hearing and as a formal hearing, as may be applicable,
as provided by the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Public Act 236 of 1961, as
amended, M.C.L.A §§ 600.101 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment, unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
33.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
Section
Village Officials
   
30.01   Election of trustees
   
30.02   Clerk and Treasurer, appointments
Village Council
   
30.15   Meetings
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
§ 30.01 ELECTION OF TRUSTEES.
   Three of the Village Trustees shall be elected at each biennial village
election for the term of four years and until their successors are qualified.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-2-2005)
§ 30.02 CLERK AND TREASURER, APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Nomination by the Village President. The Village President shall
nominate qualified individuals to serve as Village Clerk and Village Treasurer.
   (B)   Appointment by the Village Council. Upon nomination of a candidate for
Clerk or Treasurer by the Village President, the Village Council shall appoint
or reject the nominee by majority vote of those present.
   (C)   Clerk term of office. The Village Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of
the Village Council, commencing as of the effective date of this section.
   (D)   Treasurer term of office. The Village Treasurer shall serve at the
pleasure of the Village Council, commencing on November 16, 2006.
   (E)   Removal from office. The Village Council may remove the Clerk or
Treasurer from office by an affirmative vote of the majority of the Village
Council.
   (F)   Effective date. This section became effective 45 days after said date
of adoption.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-1-2006)
VILLAGE COUNCIL
§ 30.15 MEETINGS.
   The Village Council holds its regular monthly meetings on the second Monday
of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Village Office.
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Planning Commission
§ 31.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission is established in accordance with
the provisions of Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
   (B)   Members. The Planning Commission shall consist of nine members, who
shall be representative of important segments of the community such as the
economic, governmental, educational and social development of the village in
accordance with major interests that exist within the village such as
recreation, education, public health, government, transportation, industry and
commerce. Members shall be appointed by the Village President, subject to
approval by a majority vote of the members of the Village Council elected and
serving. All members of the Planning Commission shall serve without
compensation and the members shall hold no other municipal office except that
one member may be a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The term of each
member shall be three years and shall expire on the first Monday in January on
the third year succeeding his or her appointment, or until his or her successor
takes office. Members may, upon written charges and after a public hearing, be
removed by a majority vote of the Village Council for misfeasance, malfeasance,
or nonfeasance in office.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Planning Commission shall annually at its
January meeting select from among its members a chairperson and shall hold
meetings at least once per month. A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals
serving on the Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as chairperson. The
Planning Commission shall adopt rules of procedure and shall keep its records
as required by state law.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have all of the
powers and duties as provided by applicable state law, the zoning ordinance of
the village, and other applicable village ordinances.
   (E)   Annual report. The Planning Commission shall submit an annual report
to the Village Council concerning its operations, its membership composition,
and the status of planning activities, including recommendations regarding
actions by the Village Council related to planning and development.
   (F)   Employees, consultants. The Planning Commission may, within budgetary
limitations, appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its work,
whose appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be subject to the same
provisions of law as govern other corresponding civil employees of the village.
The Planning Commission may also, within budgetary limitations, retain
consultants to advise it with respect to any matters that are properly before
the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may appoint advisory
committees whose members are not members of the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Conflict of interest. For purposes of this division, a conflict of
interest is a direct personal or financial interest in a matter before the
Planning Commission that is not generally shared by members of the community.
Knowingly voting upon any matter in which a member has a conflict of interest
shall constitute malfeasance in office.
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Ambulance Service
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Ambulance service
   
32.03   Charges
   
32.04   Reserved
   
32.05   Effective date
Public Safety and Fire Emergency Response; Cost Recovery
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Cost recovery authorization and procedure
   
32.22   Billing and collection of assessable costs
   
32.23   Procedure for appealing assessable costs
   
32.24   Assessable costs a lien upon property
   
32.25   Other remedies
   
32.26   No limitation of liability
   
32.27   Effective date
 
   
32.99   Penalty
AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for an ambulance service within
the village, to provide rates and charges therefor and to provide methods for
the collection of such charges.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 32.02 AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The Village Council shall have power and authority to contract for the
furnishing of ambulance service within the village through a duly licensed
ambulance facility.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 32.03 CHARGES.
   The charges for the ambulance shall be in specified amounts to reflect costs
of service and shall periodically be determined by each successive contractual
agreement between the village and the supplier.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.04 RESERVED.
§ 32.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 26, passed 9-7-1993)
PUBLIC SAFETY AND FIRE EMERGENCY RESPONSE; COST RECOVERY
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS. Those costs for service incurred by the village, in
conjunction with response to a public safety or fire emergency incident,
including but not limited to the actual labor and material costs of the village
(including without limitation employee wages, fringe benefits, administrative
overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment operation, costs of materials,
costs of transportation, costs of material disposal and costs of contracted
labor), whether or not the services are provided by the village or by a third
party on behalf of the village; county costs, service charges and interest;
attorneys’ fees, litigation costs and any costs, charges, fines or penalties to
the village imposed by any court or state or federal government entities.
   BOMB THREATS. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which, if discharged as threatened, would violate a federal, state or
local law.
   COUNTY COSTS. Any costs incurred by the county as part of a response to a
public safety or fire emergency incident, including but not limited to costs
incurred by activation of the Emergency Operations Center, the Emergency
Program Manager, the County Sheriff, Public Health, Public Information Officer
and any other county personnel contributing time and materials in response to
the emergency.
   EXCESSIVE REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises if such location or
premises has requested assistance more than five times in the preceding 30
days.
   FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual devices designated to request or summon
emergency assistance, whether such device is activated intentionally or
otherwise, in the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The
determination that there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be
made by the incident commander responding to a request or summon for emergency
assistance; provided, however, a FALSE ALARM shall not be deemed to have
occurred if either it is caused by an act of God, i.e., a lightning storm; or
it originates from a motor vehicle or building alarm system and it has not
occurred more frequently than three times in a calendar month or four times in
a calendar year.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY. Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent and where the Fire Chief or his or her designee has
so declared such activity, accident or emergency a hazardous material incident
or emergency.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Those elements, substances, wastes or byproducts,
including but not limited to combustible liquid, flammable gas, explosives,
flammables, poisons, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable
reactive matter, petroleum products, antifreeze, polychlorinated biphenyls and
asbestos, which are or are potentially harmful to the environment, humans,
animals or property, or to the ecological balance of the environment as
determined by the Village Fire Chief (hereinafter Fire Chief) or the incident
commander.
   ILLEGAL FIRE. Subject to the fire prevention provisions of Chapter 91 of
this code, means a fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state or local law, and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in
violation of a “no burning” ban or order. An ILLEGAL FIRE does not include an
unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of God, i.e., a lightning storm.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on the
public streets, roads and highways to transport passengers or property which is
required to be registered for use upon such public streets, roads and highways.
For the purpose hereof, all trailers or appurtenances attached to any motor
vehicle are considered a MOTOR VEHICLE under this definition.
   PUBLIC SAFETY or FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT. Such things as:
      (1)   Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
      (2)   A false alarm;
      (3)   A hazardous material incident or emergency;
      (4)   An illegal fire;
      (5)   Bomb threats;
      (6)   Threats of harm to oneself or others;
      (7)   Structure demolition;
      (8)   Utility line failure; or
      (9)   Any other incident requiring use of a special rescue team or
emergency response team, including but not limited to technical rescue,
confined space rescue, dive team or water rescue.
   RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing into
the environment, including but not limited to the air, soil, ground water and
surface water.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity responsible for a public safety or fire emergency
incident or any owner, tenant, occupant or party in control of real and
personal property from which, onto which or related to which there is a public
safety or fire emergency incident. RESPONSIBLE PARTY shall include the heirs,
estates, successors and assigns or the entities named herein.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire, which
must in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her designee be promptly
demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another person, or another person’s property, which
if carried out would be in violation of federal, state or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission, distribution or
service line, cable, conduit, pipeline, wire or the like used to provide,
collect or transport electricity, natural gas, communication or electronic
signals (including but not limited to telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals or electronic impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage, if
the owner or party responsible for the maintenance of such utility does not
respond within one hour to a request to repair or correct such failure.
   WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Biological agents, nuclear-radiological
devices, incendiary devices, chemical agents and explosives that may be used to
attempt or accomplish mass destruction.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Protection and Prevention, see
Chapter 91
§ 32.21 COST RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village may recover all assessable costs in connection with a
public safety or fire emergency incident from any or all responsible parties,
jointly or severally.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, Village Official or their designee (hereafter “Public
Safety Official”) shall determine the total assessable costs (in amounts as
established by resolution or the Board) and shall in consultation with other
village personnel involved in responding to a public safety or fire emergency
incident determine whether to assess any, all or part of such costs against any
of the responsible parties. In making such determination, the following may be
considered:
      (1)   The total assessable costs;
      (2)   The risk the public safety or fire emergency incident imposed on
the village, its residents and their property;
      (3)   Whether there was any injury or damage to person or property;
      (4)   Whether the public safety or fire emergency incident required an
unusual or extraordinary use of village personnel and equipment; and
      (5)   Whether there was any damage to the environment.
   (C)   After consideration of the factors stated above, the Public Safety
Official may allocate assessable costs among and between responsible parties,
including allocating all or some of such costs jointly and severally against
more than one responsible party, regardless of whether a responsible party has
other legal liability therefor, or is legally at fault.
   (D)   If the Public Safety Official determines not to assess all or part of
assessable costs against a responsible party, such determination shall not in
any way limit or extinguish the liability of the responsible party to the
village.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009)
§ 32.22 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   After determining assessable costs against a responsible party, the village
or its designee shall mail an itemized invoice to the responsible party at his,
her or its last known address. Such invoice shall be due and payable within 30
days of the date of mailing and any amounts unpaid after such due date shall
bear a late payment fee equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the
amount due and any previously imposed late payment fee remains unpaid. If a
responsible party shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to §
32.23, such costs, if upheld, in whole or part or in part, shall be due and
payable 30 days from the date of determination of the appeal, and any late
payment fees shall apply thereafter.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009)
§ 32.23 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALING ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   Any responsible party who receives an invoice for assessable costs shall
have an opportunity to appeal to the Village Council to request a modification
of assessable costs pursuant to the following procedure.
   (A)   A responsible party who desires to appear before the Village Council
shall file a written request to appear before the Board with the Village Clerk
within seven calendar days of the receipt of the invoice assessing the
assessable costs. Upon receipt of such request, the Village Clerk shall place
the claim of the responsible party on the agenda of the next regularly
scheduled Village Council meeting, which meeting is at least 14 calendar days
after the date on which the responsible party files the request to appear. Any
filed requests to appear shall specifically identify and explain all reasons
why the responsible party believes the assessable costs shall be modified. Any
reason, basis or argument for modification of assessable costs not set forth in
the request to appear shall be deemed waived by the responsible party. After a
responsible party has been given an opportunity to appear before it, the
Village Council shall promptly determine whether to confirm, modify or void the
payment of assessable costs involved.
   (B)   Failure to timely file a written request to appear before the Village
Council shall constitute a waiver of the responsible party’s right to appeal
and shall further constitute the responsible party’s agreement to pay the
assessable costs invoiced or as may have been modified, together with any late
payment fee.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009)
§ 32.24 ASSESSABLE COSTS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when due,
including late payment fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real property of
the responsible party in the village, from which, upon which or related to
which the public safety or fire emergency incident occurred. Such lien shall be
the same character and effect as the lien created by the village for village
real property taxes, and shall include accrued interest and penalties. The
Village Treasurer shall, prior to March 1 each year, certify to the Assessor
the fact that such assessable costs are delinquent and unpaid. The Village
Assessor shall then enter the delinquent amount on the next general ad valorem
tax roll as a charge against the affected property, and the lien thereon shall
be enforced in the same manner as provided and allowed by law for delinquent
and unpaid real property taxes.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.25 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedy set forth in §
32.24, the village shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or may
institute any appropriate action of proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a responsible
party.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.26 NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.27 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 20 days from and after the date of its
final passage and adoption.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed - -2009)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Sale of personal property
   
33.02   Sale of real property
§ 33.01 SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Whenever any personal property belonging to the village is no longer needed
for village or public purposes, such personal properly may be offered for sale
on approval by the Village Council. Personal property not exceeding $1,000 in
value may be sold for cash by village staff designated for such purpose by the
Village Council. Personal property with a value in excess of $1,000 may be sold
after advertising and receiving competitive bids and alter approval of the sale
has been given by the Village Council.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 33.02 SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Real property owned by the village, excluding public park property, may be
sold or leased when not required for village or public purposes, upon the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of the Village Council. Any
notice inviting bids shall contain a brief description of the property.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 1-13-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
52.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
53.   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE REGULATIONS
Section
Trash Collection
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Collection by village
   
50.03   Collection supervised by Director of Public Works
   
50.04   Preparation of refuse
   
50.05   Collection practices
   
50.06   Fees
   
50.07   Savings clause
   
50.08   Effective date
 
   
50.99   Penalty
TRASH COLLECTION
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS or DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the
Village of Pewamo.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms, connected together constituting a
separate independent housekeeping establishment for one-family occupancy, and
physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the
same structure, and containing independent cooking, bathing and living
facilities.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   REFUSE. Includes the following:
      (1)   All kitchen waste, including cans, bottles, household food and
accumulations of animal food and vegetable matter attendant to the preparation,
use, cooking and serving of food; and
      (2)   General household trash and refuse, including ashes, empty cartons,
crates, boxes, wrapping materials, newspapers and magazines when neatly bound
in conveniently sized bundles, cloth material and similar materials.
   RUBBISH. Includes waste from construction or remodeling, concrete, rocks,
sod, earth, automobile or truck parts, tires, manufacturing or trade waste
accumulated by residential, commercial, individual or institutional uses and
includes all other waste products not otherwise defined under “refuse”.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.02 COLLECTION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   All refuse from building with dwelling units not exceeding four in
number, accumulated in the village, shall be collected, conveyed and disposed
of only by a licensed contractor designated by the village. No other person
shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of the village, or
dispose of any refuse except in the manner as herein set forth.
   (B)   (1)   Refuse collection. The collection of refuse shall be confined to
residential dwelling not exceeding four dwelling units. The village shall
contract with one licensed hauler, who shall exclusively collect refuse from
the dwellings as herein defined.
      (2)   Rubbish collection. This subchapter shall not prohibit other
licensed collectors from collecting rubbish within the village, nor prohibit
the actual producers of rubbish, or the owner of the premises upon which
rubbish as accumulated, from personally collecting, conveying and disposing of
such rubbish, provided such persons dispose of such rubbish in an authorized
and approved sanitary landfill.
      (3)   Other refuse collection. This subchapter shall not prohibit a
licensed hauler from collecting refuse and rubbish from living units in excess
of four units, or from trailer parks, commercial, industrial or institutional
businesses, provided that such disposal of refuse and rubbish in an approved
sanitary landfill and does not violate the provisions of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION SUPERVISED BY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   All refuse accumulated in the village from a dwelling unit shall be carted,
conveyed and disposed of by a licensed contractor under the contract with the
village, and under the supervision of the Director of Public Works. The
Director shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations concerning the
days of collection, conveyance and disposal as deemed necessary, and to change
and modify the same, after public notice in a newspaper having circulation in
the village, provided that such a rule or regulations are not contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter. Any person aggrieved by any rule or regulation
of the Director shall have the right to appeal to the Village Council, which
shall have the authoring to confirm, modify or revoke any such rule or
regulation.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.04 PREPARATION OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Confinement; free of liquids.  All refuse shall be placed in tied
polyethylene bags or containers. All garbage, before being placed in such
containers, shall have drained from it all free liquids and may be wrapped in
paper.
   (B)   Refuse containers. Refuse containers may be provided by the owner,
tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises. Refuse containers shall be
maintained in good condition and any container that does not conform to the
provisions of this subchapter, or that has ragged or chipped edges or any other
defects liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof,
shall be promptly replaced. The licensed hauler selected by the village shall
have the authority to refuse collection service for failure to comply herewith,
after giving notice to the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Storing of refuse.
      (1)   Public places. No person shall place any refuse of rubbish in any
street, alley or other public place or upon any private property, whether owned
by such person or not, with the village, except it be in proper containers for
collection, or with express approval given by the Director, nor shall any
person throw or deposit any refuse or rubbish in any stream or other body of
water.
      (2)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse
or rubbish on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
prohibited. Failure to remove any existing accumulation of refuse or rubbish,
after the effective date of this subchapter shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
      (3)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit
anywhere within the village, refuse or rubbish in such a manner that it may be
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer,
parkway or other public place, or in any occupied premises within the village.
   (D)   Points of collection.  
      (1)   In all areas of the village not served by public alleys, refuse
containers shall be placed for collection at ground level between front curb
and the sidewalk of dwelling units, and where there is no curb or sidewalk,
then at the front property line of the dwelling unit.
      (2)   Refuse containers shall not be placed for collection before 7:00
p.m. on the evening before the day of collection and shall be removed by 9:00
p.m. on the day of collection, said collection day or days to be determined by
the Director.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.05 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Frequency of collection.
      (1)   Residential. Refuse accumulated by dwelling units as herein defined
shall be collected once each week.
      (2)   Commercial. Hotels, restaurants, institutions and such other places
as deem it necessary, may enter into an agreement for more frequent collection.
Where necessary to protect the public health, the Director shall have the
authority to require that more frequent collections be made.
   (B)   Limits on quantity. Refuse collection for dwelling units as herein
defined, shall be limited to six bags per week.
   (C)   Special refuse and rubbish problems.
      (1)   Contagious disease. The removal of wearing apparel, bedding or
other refuse or rubbish from homes or other places where highly infectious or
contagious diseases have prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and
direction of the County Health Officer. Such refuse and rubbish shall not be
placed in containers for regular collections.
      (2)   Inflammables or explosives. Highly inflammable or explosive
materials shall not be placed in containers for regular collection, but shall
be disposed of as directed by the Director at the expense of the owner or
possessor thereof.
   (D)   Requirements of collectors. The actual producer of refuse or the owner
of the premises upon which refuse is accumulated, who desires personally to
collect and dispose of such refuse, and the collectors of refuse from outside
the village and who are licensed by the village, shall use a watertight
vehicle, provided with a tight cover as approved by the Director, and so
operated as to prevent offensive odors escaping therefrom and refuse from being
blown, dropped or spilled. The Director shall have the authority to make such
other reasonable regulations concerning individual collection and disposal
relating to the hauling of rubbish by a licensed hauler, as necessary.
   (E)   Refuse property of the village. Ownership of refuse material set out
for collection and collected by a duly licensed hauler approved by the village
shall be vested in the village.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.06 FEES.
   (A)   Residential. The fees for collection and dispersal of refuse from the
dwelling units, as hereinbefore defined, shall be set by the Village Council,
based on its contract with a licensed hauler, and subject to such increases or
decreases as established by the Village Council from time to time.
   (B)   Nonresidential. For the collection and disposal of refuse and rubbish
not otherwise proved for herein, the property owner may make such agreement
with a licensed hauler as deemed to his or her best advantage.
   (C)   Payment. For all dwelling units, as defined herein, the village shall
levy a monthly service collection fee, which shall be the obligation of the
property owner, as shown by the tax rolls of the village; shall be included in
the property tax statement, and if unpaid, shall become a lien against the
property, if the entire bill is not paid when due, services to the property
shall be terminated and no further collections shall be made.
   (D)   Legal remedy. The stoppage of service for nonpayment of collection
charges shall be in addition to the right of the village to pursue collection
of such unpaid charges in any manner provided by law for the collection of a
claim by the village.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.07 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All proceedings pending and all rights and liabilities existing, acquired or
incurred at the time this subchapter takes effect are saved and may be
consummated according to the law in force when they are commenced. This
subchapter shall not be construed to affect any prosecution pending or
initiated before, or initiated after the effective date of this subchapter for
any offense committed before the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 30 days from its passage.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Penalties may be imposed up to
90 days incarceration in the County Jail and/or fine up to $500 plus the costs
of prosecution.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-27-2012)
CHAPTER 51: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Water System
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Water hookup requirements
   
51.03   Meter damage
   
51.04   Cross-connections
   
51.05   Connection fee
   
51.06   Curb box; responsibility
   
51.07   Available distance to main
   
51.08   Fire hydrants
Charges and Rates
   
51.20   Fiscal year
   
51.21   Operation and management
   
51.22   Service charges
   
51.23   Service abandonment
   
51.24   No free service
   
51.25   Charges a lien on premises
   
51.26   Rates
Wellhead Protection
   
51.40   Definitions
   
51.41   New well regulations
   
51.42   Water connection
   
51.43   Availability of village water supply
   
51.44   Hazards to water system
   
51.45   Inspections
   
51.46   Right of entry
   
51.47   Abandonment of wells
   
51.48   Demolition
   
51.49   Applicability
   
51.50   Effective date
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ground water protection, see
Ch. 53
   Wellhead Protection Area, see §
153.104
WATER SYSTEM
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACQUIRED. Includes acquisition by purchase, construction or by any other
method.
   COUNCIL. The Council of said village, the legislative and governing body
thereof.
   PROJECT. The water supply system to be acquired pursuant to this subchapter
   REVENUES and NET REVENUES. As defined in § 3 of Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.140, as now amended.
   SYSTEM. Refers to the water supply system of the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Includes all plants, works, instrumentalities and
properties (as the same shall from time to time exist), used or useful in
connection with the obtaining of a water supply, the treatment of water and/or
distribution of water, by the village.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.02 WATER HOOKUP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All structures (i.e., each house, apartment complex, school, church
and business) shall have a village approved meter installed.
   (B)   Service is to be copper, brass or copper fittings only, isolation
valve is to be a quarter turn, brass ball valve.
   (C)   Service to be inspected by DPW before burial.
   (D)   The village will provide one standard 5/8" meter per address. If
additional meters are requested, it is at the property owner's expense.
   (E)   Owner is responsible to have a licensed plumber install meter, with
DPW inspection to follow.
   (F)   Owner shall have and approved shut off valve on both sides of meter.
   (G)   Any service larger than one-inch must be plumbed with bypass and all
necessary valves.
   (H)   All meters will be mounted horizontally for all services.
   (I)   If a dwelling or business has a finished basement, or a unit requires
transmitting wire to be concealed, it will be the owner's responsibility to
install wire.
   (J)   If meter is located in a mechanical room with an electrical meter, it
will be the discretion of the Water Department to determine whether a remote
reader will be required.
   (K)   The village will maintain all meters and remotes after original
installation.
   (L)   If a meter cannot be repaired or maintained, the village will furnish
a replacement meter and/or remote.
   (M)   Remote reader will be installed on all replacement meters, with the
installation of remote wire subject to provision as outlined in divisions (I)
and (J) of this section.
   (N)   If a meter or remote is damaged due to owner negligence, the owner
will be responsible for all repair or replacement costs.
   (O)   If meter or remote is tampered with or removed, the village may
estimate water loss and bill the owner for the amount based on past meter
history.
   (P)   Owner must provide access to meter and remote for maintenance and/or
replacement. If access is not provided within two weeks of the village’s
request, the village reserves the right to cease water service.
   (Q)   In the event that there are two meters at an address, the Ready to
Serve Rate for water will be charged on the larger of the two meters installed.
Usage will be charged on both meters.
   (R)   Irrigation meters added to a metered dwelling will not be assessed
Ready to Serve charges to water or sewer, but will be charged for water usage
only.
   (S)   Multiple dwellings such as apartments will be provided one meter and
remote reader. If additional meters are requested, it is at the property
owner's expense.
      (1)   Ready to Serve Rates of both water and sewer will be charged for
each unit, whether they are metered individually or not.
      (2)   All metered usage will also be billed according to village
practice.
      (3)   Water shut off policy for active duty military personnel.
         (a)   Fees for water shut off and turn on, monthly Ready to Serve for
water and sewer services will be waived for military personnel if they are the
property/homeowners only.
         (b)   Waived fees apply only if military personnel are called into
active duty for a period of six months or more.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009; Ord. passed 10-11-2012; Ord. 2009-02, passed 8-
8-2016; Ord. 2009-02, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.03 METER DAMAGE.
   Damage to an existing meter (housed inside of the premises), due to freeze
or neglect, will be repaired or replaced at the property owner’s expense. Any
damage to the owner’s premises due to a water leak inside of the premises will
be the property owner’s responsibility and not the responsibility of the
village.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.04 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   This section regulates cross-connections with the public water supply
system, a connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances through which
water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants can enter the
public water supply system.
   (B)   The village adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection
rules of the State Department of Public Health, being R 325.11401 to 325.11407
of the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Village Water Department to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply
where cross-connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and reinspection based on potential health hazards
involved shall be as established by the Village Water Department and as
approved by the State Department of Health.
   (D)   The representative of the Water Department shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping systems or
systems thereof for cross-connections. On request the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the Water Department any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (E)   The Village Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this chapter exists, and to take such other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply system. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until the cross- connections have been eliminated in
compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (F)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this section and by the state and the State Plumbing Code, as
amended. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purpose
and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a
conspicuous manner as: “WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING”.
   (G)   This section does not supersede the State Plumbing Code, as amended.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.05 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   A connection fee in an amount set from time to time by resolution of
the Council must be paid into the water system prior to hook-up.
   (B)   All installation expenses for a new service line from the water main
to the house, business etc. will be the owner's responsibility. Installation
cost shall include, but shall not be limited to all excavation, backfill, road
cutting, boring of road, replacement of roadway material to match existing road
surface, sidewalk replacement if required, curb box with water shut valve.
Village will provide one standard 5/8"water meter per address, if additional
meters are requested, it is at the property owner's expense and all work must
be approved by DPW and cost to be covered by property owner’s expense. The
resident or business is responsible for installation and expenses of water line
from the village water main to the property line or right-of-way when
pertaining to out lots to the business or residence.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009; Ord. passed 10-11-2012; Ord. 2009-02, passed 8-
8-2016)
§ 51.06 CURB BOX; RESPONSIBILITY.
   Once the premises is connected to the water supply system, the curb box is
the property of the water supply system and not the property owner. Water line
from the premises to the curb box is the property owner’s responsibility for
all repairs or replacement cost.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009; Ord. 2009-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 51.07 AVAILABLE DISTANCE TO MAIN.
   The village water supply system shall be deemed AVAILABLE if a water main of
the village water supply system is within 300 feet of the nearest portion of
the property upon which the building is located.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.08 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to attach a hose to any
fire hydrant in the village for the purpose of sprinkling their lawns, washing
automobiles or for any purpose whatever.
   (B)   The village also ordains that it shall be unlawful for any person to
meddle or tamper with any fire hydrant except in case of a fire and then only
by a recognized firefighter.
   (C)   This section shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 5, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
51.99
CHARGES AND RATES
§ 51.20 FISCAL YEAR.
   The system shall be operated upon the basis of a fiscal year beginning on
April 1 of each year and ending on March 31 following.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.21 OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the system shall be under the
immediate supervision and control of the Council or of such officer or board as
shall be designated or created by the Council and subject to its control.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.22 SERVICE CHARGES.
   Fees in an amount set up time to time by resolution of the Council for Water
and Sanitary Sewer service. Charges to be billed monthly to each premises
within the village connected with the water supply system and sanitary sewer
system.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009; Ord. passed 5-1-2015; Ord. 2009-02, passed 8-8-
2016; Ord. 2009-02, passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.23 SERVICE ABANDONMENT.
   Monthly water charges and water service may be discontinued with proper
documentation.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
§ 51.24 NO FREE SERVICE.
   (A)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to the village or to
any person, firm or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or
instrumentality. Charges for services furnished by the system shall be billed
and collected monthly. Such charges shall become due at such times not
exceeding 30 days after the water bill is rendered, as shall be established by
resolution of the Council, and if charges are not paid on or before such due
date, plus a penalty of 10%. Except for water used for fires under the mutual
aid agreement with other municipalities and fire departments, no charges will
be issued for water to fight fires.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $50.
   (C)   All billing will be sent to the property owner for payment.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009; Ord. 2009-02, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 CHARGES A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   Charges for services furnished by the system to any premises shall be a lien
thereon, and on May 1 of each year the person or agency charged with the
management of said system shall certify any such charges which have been
delinquent six months or more to the Village Assessor, who shall enter the same
upon the next tax roll against the premises to which such services shall have
been rendered, and said charges shall be collected and said lien shall be
enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to taxes assessed upon such
roll, and property owner will be responsible for payment of all charges.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 RATES.
   Rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time by the Council. The rates
hereinbefore established shall be sufficient to provide for the payment of the
expenses of administration and operation of the system and such expenses for
the maintenance thereof as may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair
and working order.
(Ord. 2009-02, passed - -2009)
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
§ 51.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELL. Any well that may be driven, drilled or dug, which is no
longer in use.
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation, group of formations or part of formation
capable of storing and yielding a significant amount of ground water to wells
or springs.
   HAZARD OR POTENTIAL HAZARD TO AQUIFER. Any chemical or material, may it be
gas, solid or liquid form, that may be harmful to public health, safety,
welfare or the environment.
   WELL. Includes any apparatus that is driven, dug or drilled that may
penetrate the layers of the aquifer to cause a hazard or potential hazard.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION. Protecting the village’s water system (wells,
distribution system and aquifer) from any hazard or potential hazard that may
penetrate protected layers of the aquifer.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.41 NEW WELL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and punishable as provided herein for any person,
partnership or corporation to install a new well in the village, if village
water supply is available. In the event that a new well is installed for
exploratory purposes only, it shall be installed and plugged under the rules
and regulations of County and State Health Codes. Demolition to be removed from
the village. In the event that a new well is installed for exploratory purposes
only, it shall be installed and subsequently plugged in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the county and state health codes, as amended, at the
property owner’s sole cost and expense.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 WATER CONNECTION.
   The water distribution system of any building, commercial, residential or
industrial, within the village shall be connected to the village water supply
system if available.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.43 AVAILABILITY OF VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY.
   The village water supply system shall be deemed available if a water main of
the village water supply system is within 300 feet of the nearest portion of
the property upon which the building is located.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.44 HAZARDS TO WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful and punishable as provided herein for any person,
partnership, corporation or any other entity to cause or permit a hazard or
potential hazard to the village water system.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.45 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the village, by and through its Maintenance
Superintendent or other person designated by Village Council to perform said
function, to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the
village water system. The frequency of inspections to eliminate such potential
hazards shall be established from time to time by the village.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.46 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Village Maintenance Superintendent or his or her designee shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time upon any property and premises served by
the village’s water system for the purpose of locating abandoned wells or
potential hazards to the village’s water system. Upon request of the village or
Maintenance Superintendent, the owner, lessee(s) or occupant(s) of any property
so served shall furnish to said inspector any pertinent information regarding
the hazards or potential hazards/ abandoned well of the property involved.
Refusal to provide such information or to permit inspection when requested
shall be deemed evidence of presence of hazards to the village’s water system.
If violation occurs, the village has the option for immediate notification to
State DEQ and possible legalities under Article II of the Michigan Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the
village from the pursuit of such other remedies as may be provided by law.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.47 ABANDONMENT OF WELLS.
   Upon connecting to the city water supply system, existing wells shall be
abandoned and plugged within 30 days in accordance with the requirements of the
State Public Health Code (Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et
seq., as amended) and administrative rules adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.48 DEMOLITION.
   In the case of demolition on any properties within the village, the
properties shall be searched for abandoned wells by village inspectors when
they feel it is pertinent to do so. All demolition shall be removed from
village limits unless deemed safe for on-site disposal, by Village Council and
Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.49 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not supersede any state or county law or any other
lawful ordinance or law applicable to the subject matter herein.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.50 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 20 days from and after its adoption
and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 30, passed 12-4-2001)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 52: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Title
   
52.002   Purpose
   
52.003   Definitions
   
52.004   Effective date
Connections Required
   
52.015   Use of public sewers required
   
52.016   Private sewage disposal
   
52.017   Building sewers and connections
Sewer Use Regulations
   
52.030   Storm, ground and unpolluted water
   
52.031   Prohibited discharges
   
52.032   Grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps)
   
52.033   Preliminary treatment
   
52.034   Treatment facilities
   
52.035   Industrial wastes
Miscellaneous
   
52.050   Protection from damage
   
52.051   Industrial use of system
   
52.052   Connection of privately constructed sanitary sewer systems to the
system
   
52.053   Administration
   
52.054   Power and authority of Inspectors
   
52.055   Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals
   
52.056   Connection of drain with storm sewer unlawful
Administration; Charges
   
52.070   Savings clause
   
52.071   Conflicting ordinances
   
52.072   Right to amend
   
52.073   Industrial cost recovery system
   
52.074   Connection charge (tap-in fee)
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ground water protection, see
Ch. 53
   Rubbish in open drains/ditches, see §
93.27
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Village of Pewamo Wastewater Sewer Use
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.002 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary for the public health,
safety and welfare of the village that the wastewater treatment and collection
system be operated by said village on a public utility basis in accordance with
the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through
141.140, as amended.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. Any portion of the village
wastewater collection system located in a right-of-way, easement, street, road,
highway, or other public or private way, which crosses, adjoins, abuts, or is
contiguous to the realty involved, and passes not more than 300 feet at the
nearest point upon which the building is located from which sanitary sewage
originates.
   BOD. The biochemical oxygen demand which is the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the inner face of the building walls.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer of
other places of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment being involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which based on a determination by the local
unit discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in a publicly owned
wastewater treatment plant such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids,
pH and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the
NPDES permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat such
pollutants and in fact does remove such pollutant to a substantial degree.
(Examples of such additional pollutants may include chemical oxygen demand,
total organic carbon, phosphorous and phosphorus compounds, nitrogen compounds,
fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin.)
   CONNECTION CHARGE (TAP-IN FEE). The charge assessed the user of the system
for connection to the system.
   DIRECT CONNECTION. Any direct or immediate connection to the system.
   EQUIVALENT UNIT FACTOR or EQUIVALENT UNIT. The factor representing a ratio
of the estimated sewage used by such user class to the normal single-family
residential user.
   FEDERAL GRANT.  A grant in aid of the construction of the wastewater
collection, transportation and the treatment works provided under Pub. Law No.
92-500.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparations, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY. A county, city, village, township, authority or other
units of government.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY OR IMPROVED LAND. Any real estate or land on which is
located a structure in which sanitary sewage originates.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDIRECT CONNECTION. Any direct or immediate connection to any part of the
system which is constructed by persons other than the local units and/or by
other than public monies (e.g., subdivision and mobile home park sanitary
sewers).
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.  The system whereby the local unit recovers
from industrial users of the system that portion of the rent amount allocable
to the construction of the facilities from such users pursuant to 40 C.F.R. §
35.928.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that discharger’s
industrial waste to the system. More specifically, it means any nongovernmental
user of the system identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented under the
following divisions:
      (1)   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B, Mining;
      (3)   Division D, Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E, Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
      (5)   Division I, Services.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business process, as distinct from their employees’ domestic wastes or wastes
from sanitary conveniences.
   LATERAL. The portion of the public sewer which projects from the main line
of the public sewer to the adjoining or abutting property lines and to which
the building sewer is connected.
   LOCAL UNIT. The Village of Pewamo.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY.  An industrial water of the publicly owned
sewage works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Water Pollution Control Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned sewage works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the sewage works or upon the quality of effluent
from the sewage works.
   MAY or SHOULD. The actions referred to are permissive.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING.  A residence in which more than one family resides.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body or surface of ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to the National Pollution Elimination
System prescribed in the Water Pollution Control Act.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M). An effort required to operate and maintain,
including the cost of replacement, the wastewater collection, transportation
and treatment system consistent with insuring adequate treatment of wastewater
to produce an effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable
county, state and federal regulations.
   O&M CHARGE. The charge assessed user of the system for the cost of operation
and maintenance (including the cost of replacement) of the system pursuant to §
204b of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 121284.
   ORDINARY STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTE. Sewage that is collected from dwelling
units, commercial buildings and institutions of the community. It is primarily
spent water from building water supply, to which have been added the waste
material of bathroom, kitchen and laundry. The strength of ordinary domestic
waste as measured in commonly used parameters is typically 250 to 300 mg/l of
biochemical oxygen demand and 300 to 350 mg/l of suspended solids.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, group or
corporation.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person or persons having legal title to the premises
according to the local unit’s tax records and shall include, in the case of a
land contract sale, the land contract purchaser or purchasers, provided the
local unit has been provided a copy of said land contract.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer main located in a public street right-of-way in which
all owners of abutting properties have equal rights and which sewer is owned
and/or controlled by the local units.
   REPLACEMENT. The obtaining and installing of any equipment, accessories and
appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the system to
maintain the capacity and performance for which such system was designed and
constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER.  A user of the system whose premises or building is used
primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including dwelling units such
as detached, semi-detached, row houses, mobile homes, apartments or permanent
multi-family dwellings. Transient lodging is not included, as it is considered
commercial.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A residence in which only one family resides.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial wastes which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial waste other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building or structure in
which toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing or other facilities, which generate
water-carried sanitary sewage, are used or are available for use for household,
commercial, industrial or other purposes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Sewer Board of the district or its authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER CLASS. The kind of water connected to sanitary sewers, including but
not limited to residential, commercial and industrial.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
   WATER POLLUTION CONTROL ACT (PUB. LAW NO. 92-500).  The Federal Water
Pollution Control Act of 1972, being Pub. Law No. 92-500 (33 U.S.C. § 1235 et
seq.) of the United States of America, which was adopted by the 92nd Congress
on October 18, 1972.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This amended chapter shall take effect 20 days after its passage.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
CONNECTIONS REQUIRED
§ 52.015 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Mandatory connection requirement. Each property owner owning property
on which is located a structure in which sanitary sewage originates shall, at
his or her own expense, install suitable sewage facilities in said structure
and shall cause such facilities to be connected to an available public sanitary
sewer system.
   (B)   Connection procedure.
      (1)   Such connection shall be completed promptly but in no case later
than 90 days from the date of the occurrence of the last of the following
events:
         (a)   Publication of a notice by the local unit of the availability of
the village wastewater collection system in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village and mailing written notice of the availability of the village
wastewater collection system to the owner or any one of the owners, in the case
of co-ownership; or
         (b)   Modification of a structure so as to become a structure in which
sanitary sewage originates.
      (2)   If the owner of property on which is located a structure in which
sanitary sewage originates does not complete connection to an available
sanitary sewer within the 90-day period prescribed in division (B)(1) above,
the village shall notify said person by written notice that connection to the
system is required forthwith.
      (3)   The giving of the written notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section shall be made by personally delivering the same by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested or by posting the same in a
conspicuous place on the premises. Said notice shall give the approximate
location of the available public sanitary sewer system which is available for
connection for the structure involved and shall advise the property owner of
the requirements and of the enforcement provision of this chapter.
      (4)   Where the written notices required hereunder are given by mailing,
it shall be sufficient to mail a single written notice to the owner or any one
of the owners in the case of co-ownership at the address of such owner
according to the local unit’s real estate tax record.
      (5)   All other substantive and procedural requirements prescribed by
applicable state law, are incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Adverse weather exception for late connection. In the event the
property owner is unable to connect to the system within the time period
prescribed by this chapter due to or on account of adverse weather conditions,
said property owner may appeal to the Sanitary Sewer Board of Appeals
established pursuant to §
52.055 to allow said person additional time in which to connect without penalty
and without civil and criminal proceedings being initiated against him or her.
   (D)   Enforcement of mandatory connection requirement.
      (1)   Penalties for late connection. The failure or refusal to connect to
the system 90 days after the notice to connect is given pursuant to division
(B)(3) above shall result in the property owner being charged a penalty as set
forth in §
52.999.
      (2)   By civil proceedings to compel connection.  Where any structure in
which sanitary sewage originates is not connected to the system 90 days after
the date of personally serving mailings or posting the notice to connect
referred to in division (B)(3) above, the local unit may bring an action for a
mandatory injunction or injunctive order in any court of competent jurisdiction
in the county to compel the owner of the property on which the structure is
located to connect to the system. The local unit may join in such action or
actions any number of owners or such property to compel said person or persons
to connect to the system.
      (3)   By criminal proceedings. See §
52.999.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village or township (or any area under its jurisdiction) any human excrement,
garbage or other objectionable wastes.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted water, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (4)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
of §
52.015, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system. Said private sewage disposal system to be in accordance with the
standards of the County Health Department.
      (5)   At such time as the system becomes available to premises served by
a private sewage disposal system, connection shall be made to the system in
compliance with this chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities located thereon shall be abandoned or
discontinued for sanitary disposal use.
      (6)   The property owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
local unit.
      (7)   At such time the property owner decides to sell property that is
not hooked up to the public sanitary sewer system and public sewer system is
available, it shall be the owner’s responsibility to ensure that a structure in
which sanitary sewage originates shall be, at the property’s sole cost and
expense, connected to the public sanitary sewer system. Prior to the sale of
such property in accordance with the standards of the County Health Department
and this sewer use ordinance.
   (B)   Disposition of abandoned private system. The local unit is requiring
by this chapter that abandoned private sewage systems be pumped and filled. The
local unit does strongly recommend that the sewage be removed from every
private sewage system which has been abandoned or discontinued for sanitary
disposal use as required in division (A)(5) above and that said system be
completely filled with earth, sand, gravel, concrete or other approved
material.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Building sewer regulations.
      (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building.
      (2)   All installation expenses for a new service line from the sanitary
sewer system to the house, business, etc. will be the owner’s responsibility.
Installation costs include, but are not limited to, all excavation, backfill,
road cutting, boring of road, replacement of roadway material to match existing
road surface, sidewalk replacement if required and connection of the public
sewer from the sewer main and house, business, etc. and shall be borne by the
property owner. Once the premises is connected to the sanitary sewer system the
owner will be responsible for the line from the house, business, etc. to the
village street right-of-way. The village will be responsible from street right-
of-way to sewer main. Property owner is responsible for installation and
expenses from the sewer main to the property line or right-of-way line when
pertaining to out lots.
      (3)   Building sewers including existing building sewers shall on
examination and test by the local unit meet all requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Building sewers hereinafter installed shall consist of pipes and
fittings of the following types and sizes.
      (5)   Pipe must be of sufficient diameter to carry estimated volume of
discharge. Minimum pipe size permitted is four-inch ID.
      (6)   Pipe and fittings must be ABS plastic Schedule 40 or better.
      (7)   No tees, double tees or crosses or double hub pipes shall be
permitted
      (8)   All changes in grade shall be made with appropriate one-eighth
bends.
      (9)   Cleanouts shall be installed every 50 feet of straight run and at
each 90-degree direction change, and all cleanouts shall be plugged.
      (10)   All four-inch lines shall be laid at a minimum slope of 1/4 inch
per foot grade and a maximum slope of one-half inch per foot grade. All six-
inch lines shall be laid at a minimum eighth-inch per foot grade and a maximum
one-half inch per foot grade.
      (11)   The methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall conform to the requirements of the
State Plumbing Code, as amended of the local units and of this chapter.
      (12)   No building sewer shall be laid within three feet of any bearing
wall. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
      (13)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by a pumping system and discharged to the building sewer.
      (14)   All excavations for building sewer installation and connection
shall be adequately by barricades and lighting so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the installation and connection work shall be
restored in a manner satisfactory to the local unit.
      (15)   Infiltration rate of building drain and building sewer shall not
exceed eight gallons per day, per 100 feet.
      (16)   Sanitary service shall be bored wherever possible, open cut in
roadway:
         (a)   Saw cut section to be excavated;
         (b)   Sand backfill to be compacted in one-foot lifts;
         (c)   Top three feet or as per MDOT specs trench to wedged one foot in
four feet with 22A gravel;
         (d)   Lines to be connected with stainless steel sewer saddle; and
         (e)   Cleanouts every 50 feet.
   (B)   Connection regulations.
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
openings into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written connection permit from the local unit.
      (2)   The fee, if any for the connection permit shall be an amount
established by resolution of the local unit.
      (3)   The owner or contractor applying for a connection permit will
receive three copies of the permit. A copy for the contractor, a copy for the
property owner and a copy is to be returned to the local unit with a sketch of
the installation on the back showing all dimensions, directions and other
important information concerning the installation. The latter copy will remain
the property of the local unit.
      (4)   No connection to the system will be permitted unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant, including capacity for treatment of BOD and suspended
solids.
      (5)   All connections to the system will be made by a licensed contractor
or plumber registered with the local unit under division (B)(6) below; provided
however, that a property owner may make his or her own installation and
connection so long as he or she has secured a connection permit.
      (6)   All licensed contractors and plumbers making connections to the
system shall file a license and/or permit bond with the local unit in the
amount of $10,000 and in addition shall provide the local unit with a copy of
their plumber’s or contractor’s license from this state and a copy of their
liability insurance prior to performing any connection to the system. Said bond
shall indemnify the local unit against all losses or damages caused by local
unit by reason of the contractor’s or plumber’s breach of this chapter or any
rule or regulation relating thereto.
      (7)   No person shall connect roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway
drains, swimming pool drains, sump pumps, or any sources of surface or ground
water to a building sewer which in turn is connected to the system.
      (8)   It being the intention of the local unit to adopt a policy of open
trench inspection of building sewer, no building sewer shall be covered until
after it has been inspected and approved by authorized personnel of the local
unit.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 2009-03, passed 8-8-2016) Penalty, see §
52.999
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.030 STORM, GROUND AND UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   Storm water, ground water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged into such sewers as are specifically designated storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the local unit. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon application and approval of
the local unit to a storm sewer or natural outlet by means of a sump pump
routed through the bond board.
   (B)   Basement floor drains must be discharged to the sanitary drains by
means of a sump pump/sewage pump with a check valve installed. All installation
expenses for the service line from the basement to the sanitary sewer will be
at the owner’s expense. The village will not assume liability for backup of any
basement floor drain.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 2009-03, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 52.031 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as provided by more specific limits stated in this chapter, no person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following to the public
sewer:
   (A)   Biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 300 mg/l;
   (B)   Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 450 mg/l;
   (C)   Chlorine demand in excess of 15 mg/l;
   (D)   Any explosive liquid, solid, or gas including, but not limited to, any
benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable material, and including, but not
limited to, any substance which results in sewage having a closed air
flashpoint of less than 140° F. or 60° C.;
   (E)   Pollutants having a corrosive property capable of causing damage to
the structures, equipment or employees of the public system, including but not
limited to wastewater with a pH less than the limit set forth in division (N)
below;
   (F)   Any garbage which is not properly shredded;
   (G)   Grease, oils, wax, fats, or any other substances that will solidify or
become viscous in the sewer at temperatures between 32° F. and 150° F.;
   (H)   Inert suspended solids, such as but not limited to fuller’s earth,
lime slurries and lime residues, or dissolved solids, such as but not limited
to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in unusual concentrations; or any
material which can be disposed of as trash;
   (I)   Substances which tend to settle out in the sewer, causing stoppage or
obstruction to flow;
   (J)    Liquids which are corrosive;
   (K)   Garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in dimension;
   (L)   Insoluble, solid, or viscous substances such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair, paunch manure or any substance which can be disposed of
in the trash;
   (M)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (N)   Substances having a pH less than 6.5 and greater than 9.0;
   (O)   All toxic, poisonous or radioactive wastes exceeding limits
established by applicable state and federal regulations;
   (P)   Any substance harmful to pipes, jointing material, and manholes;
   (Q)   Any live animals or fish;
   (R)   Suspended solids in excess of 350 mg/1;
   (S)   Wastes having a temperature less than 32° F. or greater than 150° F.;
   (T)   Any substance which could cause any blockage of any pipes or could
cause an interference;
   (U)   Any holding tank wastes;
   (V)   Color, as from, but not limited to, dyes, inks, and vegetable tanning
solutions, if they interfere with light absorbency or analytical
determinations;
   (W)   Discharges resulting in excess foaming during treatment;
   (X)   Anti-freeze, motor oil, brake fluid, transmission fluid, hydraulic
fluid, cleaning solvents, oil-based paint, and paint thinners; and
   (Y)   Any discharge violating any order of the village, any permit
requirement, or any order of an agency or court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS (TRAPS).
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps) shall be provided at the
expense of the property owner when liquid wastes contain grease in excessive
amounts, or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not
be required for single-family and multi-family dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the local unit and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease, oil
and sand interceptors shall be constructed of impervious material capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted into place shall be gastight and watertight.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors (traps) shall
be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.033 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes containing more
than 300 mg/l of BOD or 350 mg/l of suspended solids; containing any quantity
of substances having the characteristics described in §
52.031; or having any average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
flow of the village shall be subject to review and approval of the village.
Preliminary treatment shall be provided, at no expense to the village, as may
be necessary to reduce the BOD to 300 mg/l and suspended solids to 350 mg/l or
to reduce objectionable characteristics for constituents to within the maximum
limits provided for in §
52.031, or to control the quantity and rates of discharges of such waters or
wastes. On direction of the local unit, a person may be required to remove,
exclude or require pre-treatment of any industrial waste in whole or in part
for any reasons deemed to be in the local unit’s interest.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.034 TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained in satisfactory and effective operation at no
expense to the local unit. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for approval and no construction of such facility shall be commenced
until said approvals are obtained in writing. The local unit may elect to treat
industrial wastes discharged in excess of normal domestic concentrations on a
basis prescribed by written agreement and for an established surcharge to cover
the added cost. All such preliminary treatment or pre-treatment shall be in
accordance with federal and state laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.035 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may be required by the local unit to install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole when required shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the local unit. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference are made in §§
52.031 and
52.033 shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for Examination
of Water and Wastewater and Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for the
Analysis of Pollutant, federal regulations 40 C.F.R. Pt. 136, current edition,
and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in division (A)
above or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that
no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered
to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which
the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the local unit and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the local unit subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 52.050 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with the system.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051 INDUSTRIAL USE OF SYSTEM.
   Any industry or structure discharging industrial waste to the system shall
provide the local unit with the following information or material and do the
following:
   (A)   A written statement setting forth the nature of the enterprise, the
source and amount of water used, the amount of water to be discharged, with its
present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical, radioactive or other
pertinent characteristics of the waste;
   (B)   A plan map of the building, works or complex with each outfall to the
surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural watercourse or ground
waters noted, described and the waste stream identified;
   (C)   A sample test and file reports with the local unit and the appropriate
state agencies on appropriate characteristics of wastes on a schedule at
locations and according to methods approved by the local unit;
   (D)   Place waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste streams or
other potential waste problems under the specific supervision and control of
persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency as properly
qualified to supervise such facilities;
   (E)   A report on raw materials entering the process of support systems,
intermediate materials, final products and waste byproducts, as these factors
may affect waste control;
   (F)   Maintain records and file reports on the final disposal of specific
liquid, solid, sludges, oils, radioactive materials, solvents or other wastes;
and
   (G)   If any industrial process is to be altered as to include or negate a
process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be given to the
local unit subject to approval.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.052 CONNECTION OF PRIVATELY CONSTRUCTED SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS TO THE
SYSTEM.
   Before any sanitary sewer system constructed by private, as distinguished
from public funding, hereinafter referred to as the “private sanitary sewer”,
shall be permitted to connect to the system, the owner of said system,
hereinafter referred to as the developer, shall do so and provide the local
unit with the following:
   (A)   Provide the local unit with the developer’s plans and specifications
for construction an estimate of the cost of construction and performance bonds
and deposit with the local unit the sum of 1% of the cost of construction to
cover the cost of hiring a registered professional engineer to review the plans
and specifications, which monies shall be placed by the local unit in an escrow
account in the name of the developer;
   (B)   Obtain approval of the local unit of the plans and specifications;
   (C)   Secure all necessary permits for construction;
   (D)   Upon commencement of construction of the private sanitary sewer,
deposit with the local unit in the escrow account referred in division (A)
above a sum of 4% of the costs of construction to cover the anticipated cost of
inspection of construction and payment of connection charges;
   (E)   Upon completion of construction of the private sanitary sewer, the
local unit shall permit connection to the system upon recommendation of the
local unit’s engineer and approval of the local unit and upon payment of all
connection charges; and
   (F)   One year after the date of connection of the private sanitary sewer to
the system, the performance bond, upon recommendation of the local unit’s
engineer and approval of the local unit, shall be released and any monies
remaining in the developer’s escrow account shall be returned to the developer
or, in the alternative, any additional expenses incurred by the local unit in
assuring the local unit that the private sanitary sewer is properly operating.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.053 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Sewer Board of the village is charged with the responsibility of
administering the system and enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.054 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees of the Sewer Board bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duly authorized employees of the Sewer Board may enter at all
reasonable times in or upon private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions or practices which may be in violation
of this chapter.
   (C)   Duly authorized employees of the Sewer Board shall inspect the on-site
work occurring by reason of any system permit. Such person shall have the right
to issue a cease and desist order on the site upon finding a violation of said
permit or of this chapter. The order shall contain a statement of the specific
violation and the appropriate means of correcting the same and the time within
which correction shall be made.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.055 SANITARY SEWER BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation of Board. The Sewer Board is hereby authorized to hear and
consider all properly submitted appeals.
   (B)   Meetings and hearings appeals. The Sewer Board shall meet as
frequently as is necessary to hear all appeals properly submitted to it.
   (C)   Authority of Board. The Sewer Board shall hear, consider and make
recommendations to the local unit on the following matters:
      (1)   Appeals pursuant to §
52.015(C) to allow the property owner additional time in which to connect to
the system without penalty or legal action because of adverse weather
conditions;
      (2)   Appeals to review the equivalent unit factor assigned a property
owner; and
      (3)   Applications for deferring partial or total payment of connection
charges in the case of undue hardship.
   (D)   Final action. After hearing and considering an appeal, the Sewer Board
shall submit its recommendation as to the granting, denying or modification of
the appeal or relief being sought to the local unit, and the decision of the
local unit on the matter shall be final.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.056 CONNECTION OF DRAIN WITH STORM SEWER UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or
association to connect any type of drain with a village storm sewer or drain
without first obtaining permission to so do from the Village Council.
   (B)   This section shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
52.999
ADMINISTRATION; CHARGES
§ 52.070 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall in no manner affect pending litigation, either civil or
criminal, founded or growing out of any ordinance, resolution, order or parts
thereof, hereby repealed, and this chapter shall in no manner affect any
rights, claims, privileges, immunities or causes of action of the local unit or
any other person, either criminal or civil, that may have already occurred,
accrued or grown out of any ordinance, resolution, order or policy or any part
thereof hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.071 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   This chapter is intended to replace and supersede all existing village
ordinances pertaining to the administration, use, connection and related
matters pertaining to the wastewater sewer system. Accordingly, all ordinances
or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith and relating to the system are
hereby repealed. It is understood, however, that the adoption of this chapter,
or its subsequent amendment or repeal, shall in no way change, relieve or
release the existing contractual obligations or any prior violations of prior
ordinances of any person with respect to the system.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.072 RIGHT TO AMEND.
   The village specifically reserves the right to amend this chapter, in whole
or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by such
amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease or otherwise modify any of the
fees, charges or rates herein provided.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.073 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM.
   (A)   At the time of enactment of this chapter or the date on which this
chapter becomes effective, the village shall resolve to develop an industrial
cost recovery system pursuant to the requirements of 40 C.F.R. §§ 35.928 and
35.929 at such a time that industrial discharges to the treatment works
significantly influence the costs of any additional treatment works that may be
needed.
   (B)   The volume of flow shall be a factor in determining an industrial
user’s share in the industrial cost recovery system. In addition, other factors
such as strength of wastes and delivery flow rate characteristics may be
incorporated to ensure that all industrial users of the treatment works pay a
proportionate distribution of the grant assistance allowable to industrial use.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009)
§ 52.074 CONNECTION CHARGE (TAP-IN FEE).
   A connection fee in an amount set up from time to time by resolution of the
Council is to be paid prior to hook-up to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 6-8-2009; Ord. 2009-03, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 53: GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Scope
   
53.03   General provisions
   
53.04   Exemptions and waivers
   
53.05   Appeals
 
   
53.99   Penalties and costs
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation, group of formations or part of a formation
capable of storing and yielding a significant amount of groundwater to wells or
springs.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. Measures, either managerial or structural to
prevent or reduce pollution inputs to soil, surface water or groundwater.
   DEVELOPMENT. The carrying out of any construction, reconstruction,
alteration of surface of structure or change of land use or intensity of use.
   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION. The release of a hazardous substance, or the
potential release of a discarded hazardous substance, in a quantity, which is
or may become injurious to the environment, or to the public health, safety, or
welfare.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, or installation from which there may be a
discharge of pollutants.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. A chemical or other material which is or may become
injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare, or to the environment. The
term HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE includes, but is not limited to, hazardous substances
as defined in the comprehensive environmental response, compensation, and
liability act of 1980, Public Law 96-510, 94 Stat.2767; "hazardous waste" as
defined in the Hazardous Waste Management Act, Act No. 64 of the Public Acts
of1979, being sections 199.501 to 199.551 of the Michigan Compiled Laws;
"petroleum" as defined in the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Act, Act No. 478
of the Public Acts 19888, being sections 299.831 to 299.850 of the Michigan
Compiled Laws.
   PRIMARY CONTAINMENT FACILITY. A tank, pit, container, pipe, or vessel of
first containment of a hazardous substance.
   SECONDARY CONTAINMENT FACILITY. A second tank, catchment pit, pipe or vessel
that contains liquid or chemical leaking or leaching from a primary containment
area. Containment systems shall be constructed of materials of sufficient
thickness, density and composition to prevent the discharge to land, ground
waters, or surface waters, of any pollutant which may emanate from said storage
container or containers.
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK SYSTEMS. A tank or combination of tanks, including
underground pipes connected to the tank or tanks, which is, was, or may have
been used to contain an accumulation of hazardous substances, as defined in
Part 213 of the State of Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, 1994 Public Act 451, as amended.
   USED OIL. Any oil which had been (a) refined from crude oil, (b) used, and
(c) because of such use contaminated by physical or chemical impurities.
   WELL. A permanent or temporary opening in the surface of the earth for
removing fresh water, testing water quality, measuring water characteristics,
liquid recharge, waste disposal, or dewatering purpose during construction, as
defined in the Michigan Water Well Construction and Pump Installation Code,
Part 127, Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended, and rules.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA (WHPA). The area around and upgradient from the
public water supply wells delineated by the ten-year travel time contour
capture boundary.
(Ord. 6885, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 53.02 SCOPE.
   These provisions shall apply to all businesses and facilities, including
private and public facilities, which use, store or generate hazardous
substances in quantities greater than 100 kilograms per month (equal to about
25 gallons or 220 pounds), and which require site plan review under the
provisions of this chapter or of the Zoning Ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 6885, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 53.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Groundwater protection standards.
      (1)   The project and related improvements shall be designed to protect
the natural environmental, including lakes, ponds, streams, wetlands,
floodplains, and groundwater, and to ensure the absence of an impairment,
pollution, and/or destruction of water, natural resources, and the public trust
therein.
      (2)   Storm water management and drainage facilities shall be designed to
retain the natural retention and storage capacity of any wetland, water body,
or watercourse, and shall not increase flooding, or the potential for
environmental contamination, on-site or off-site, and shall not result in loss
of the use of property by any third party.
      (3)   Industrial facilities with a point source discharge of storm water
shall maintain a Storm Water Pollution Plan in accordance with applicable state
and federal regulations.
      (4)   General purpose floor drains shall be connected to a public sewer
system, and on-site holding tank, or a system authorized through a state
surface or groundwater discharge permit. If connected to the public sewer
system then the volumes and concentrations of waste discharge to the floor
drain may require compliance preliminary treatment or pre-treatment shall be in
accordance with federal and state laws and regulations;
      (5)   Sites at which hazardous substances are stored, used, or generated
shall be designed to prevent spills and unpermitted discharge to air, surface
of the ground, groundwater, lakes, streams, rivers, or wetlands.
      (6)   State and federal agency requirements for storage, spill
prevention, record keeping, emergency response, transport and disposal of
hazardous substances and polluting materials shall be met. No discharges to
groundwater, including direct and indirect discharges, shall be allowed without
applicable permits and approvals.
      (7)   In determining conformance with the standards of this chapter, the
village shall take into consideration all publications of the Ionia County
Drain Commission, and other applicable references.
      (8)   Bulk storage of pesticides shall be in accordance with Regulation
No. 640, Commercial Pesticide Bulk Storage, of Act 171 of the Public Acts of
1976, as amended, being section 286.569.
   (B)   Aboveground storage and use areas for hazardous substances and
polluting material.
      (1)   Primary containment of hazardous substances shall be product tight.
      (2)   Secondary containment shall be sufficient to store to store the
substance for the maximum anticipated period of time necessary for the recovery
of any released substance. Products held in containers of ten gallons or less
packaged for retail use shall be exempt from this item.
      (3)   Outdoor storage of hazardous substances shall be prohibited except
in product tight containers which are protected from weather, leakage,
accidental damage and vandalism, including an allowance of the excepted
accumulation of precipitation.
      (4)   Out buildings, storage rooms, sheds and pole bams which are utilize
as secondary containment shall not have floor drains which outlet to soil,
public sewer system, groundwater, or nearby drains or natural water bodies
unless a surface or groundwater discharge permits has been obtained pursuant to
applicable requirements of Act 245.
      (5)   Areas and facilities for loading and unloading of hazardous
substances as well as areas where such materials are handled and stored shall
be designed and constructed to prevent unpermitted discharges to floor drains,
rivers, lakes, wetland, groundwater or soils.
      (6)   The location of the aboveground storage of hazardous substances and
methods of primary and secondary containment shall be clearly illustrated on
the site plan.
   (C)   Underground storage tanks.
      (1)   Existing or new underground storage tanks shall be registered with
the authorized state agency in accordance with applicable requirements of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality.
      (2)   Installation, operation, maintenance, closure, and removal of
underground storage tanks shall be in accordance with applicable requirements
of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. Leak detection, corrosion
protection, spill prevention and overfill protection requirements shall be met.
Records of monthly monitoring or inventory control must be retained and
available for review by village officials for five years.
      (3)   All underground storage tanks which have been out of service for 12
months shall be removed from the site.
   (D)   Well abandonment. Out of service wells shall be sealed and abandoned
in accordance with applicable requirements of the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, Water Bureau, Drinking Water and Environmental Health,
Well Construction Unit.
   (E)   Sites with contaminated soils and/or groundwater.
      (1)   Site plan shall take into consideration the location and extent of
any contaminated soils and/or groundwater on the site, and the need to protect
public health and the environment.
      (2)   Development shall not be allowed on contaminated areas of a site
unless information from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality is
available indicating the cleanup will proceed in a timely fashion.
      (3)   Information must be provided regarding the type, concentration and
extent of identified contamination, land use deed restrictions and any remedial
action plans.
      (4)   Excavation, drilling, direct push and other earth penetration shall
be sealed with grout, or with soil material exhibiting lower hydraulic
permeability than the native soil.
   (F)   Construction standards.
      (1)   The general contractor, or if none, the property owner, shall be
responsible for assuring that each contractor or subcontractor evaluates each
site before construction is initiated to determine if any site conditions may
pose particular problems for handling any hazardous substances. For instance,
handling hazardous substances in proximity to water bodies or wetlands may be
improper.
      (2)   Hazardous substances stored on the construction site during the
construction process, shall be stored in a location and manner designed to
prevent spills and unpermitted discharge to air, surface of the ground,
groundwater, lakes, streams, rivers, or wetlands. Any storage container of over
25 gallons, or 220 pounds containing hazardous substances shall have secondary
containment.
      (3)   If the contractor will be storing or handling hazardous substances
that required a manufacture's material safety data sheet, the contractor shall
familiarize him/herself with the sheet, and shall be familiar with procedures
required to contain and clean up any release of the hazardous substance.
      (4)   Upon completion of construction, al hazardous substances and
containment system no longer used, or not needed in the operation of the
facility shall be removed from the construction site by the responsible
contractor, and shall be disposed of, recycled, or re-used in a proper manner
as prescribed by applicable State and Federal Regulations.
      (5)   Excavation, drilling, direct-push and other earth penetration shall
be sealed with grout, or with soil material exhibiting lower hydraulic
permeability than the native soil.
   (G)   Maintenance. In areas where hazardous substances are handled,
structural integrity of the building must be maintained to avoid inadvertent
discharge of chemicals to soil and groundwater. Cracks and holes in floors,
foundations and walls must be repaired in areas where chemicals are handled or
stored.
   (H)   Review requirements.
      (1)   Specify location and size of interior and exterior area(s) and
structure(s) to be used for on-site storage, use, load/unloading, recycling, or
disposal of hazardous materials.
      (2)   Specify location of all underground and aboveground storage tanks
for such uses as fuel storage, waste oil holding tanks, hazardous materials
storage, collection of contaminated storm water or wash water, and all similar
use.
      (3)   Specify location of existing and proposed wells.
      (4)   Specify location of exterior drains, dry wells, catch basins,
retention/detention areas, sumps, and other facilities designed to collect,
store or transport storm water or wastewater. The point of discharge for all
drains and pipes shall be specified on the site plan.
      (5)   Specify areas on the site that the applicant has reason to believe
are contaminated, together with a report on the status of site cleanup, if
applicable.
      (6)   Submit "Hazardous Materials Reporting Form for Site Plan Review."
      (7)   Submit "Village of Pewamo Environmental Permit Checklist."
      (8)   Refer to §
153.104  for additional requirements.
   (I)   Determination of applicability. It shall be the responsibility of any
person owning real property and/or owning and operating business within the
village corporate limits to make a determination of the applicability of this
chapter as it pertains to the property and/or business under his of her
ownership or operation and his or her failure to do so shall not excuse any
violations of said chapter.
   (J)   Conditions for approval or denial. The Planning Commission, upon
reviewing a site plan, shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   Approval. If the site plan meets all the Zoning Ordinance and
related development requirements and standards, the Planning Commission shall
record such approval and the Chairman shall sign three copies of the site plan
filing one in the official site plan, forwarding one to the Building Inspector,
and returning on to the applicant.
      (2)   Disapproval. If the site plan does not meet Zoning Ordinance and
related development requirements and standards, the Planning Commission shall
record the reasons for denial. The applicant may subsequently re-file a
corrected site plan under the same procedures followed for the initial
submission.
      (3)   Conditional approval. Conditions on approval of the site plan may
be imposed meeting the requirements specified in the Village Zoning Enabling
Act. Conditions must be:
         (a)   Designed to protect natural resources, and the health, safety
and welfare and the social and economic well-being of residents, neighbors, and
the community as a whole;
         (b)   Related to the valid exercise of the police power;
         (c)   Necessary to meet the purpose of the Zoning Ordinance and
related to the standards established in the Zoning Ordinance for the land use
or activity under consideration.
      (4)   Table. If the site plan is found to be in violation of
requirements, incomplete with respect to necessary information or presenting a
unique situation, the Planning Commission may table the site plan until a
public hearing can be scheduled to determine specific improvement requirements
the Planning Commission feels are necessary but the applicant is not in
agreement with.
(Ord. 6885, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 53.04 EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS.
   The transportation of any hazardous substance shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter provided the transporting motor vehicle or rail is
in continuous transit, or that is transporting substances to or from a State
licensed hazardous waste treatment, storage, or disposal facility.
(Ord. 6885, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 53.05 APPEALS.
   The Village Council may grant a special permit if it finds by written
decision that the proposed use:
   (A)   Meets the intent of this section as well as it specific criteria;
   (B)   Will not, during construction or thereafter, have an adverse impact on
any aquifer or recharge area in the district;
   (C)   Will not adversely affect an existing or potential domestic or
municipal water supply; and is consistent with existing and probable future
development of surrounding areas.
(Ord. 6885, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 53.99 PENALTIES AND COSTS.
   (A)   Falsifying information. Any persons who knowingly make any false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document field or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
method required under this chapter, shall be fined upon conviction not more
than $500.
   (B)   Violations. Any person or persons who is found to have violated an
order of the village or who willfully or negligently fails to comply with any
provision of this chapter and the orders, rules and regulations and permits
issued thereunder, shall be fined upon conviction not more than $500.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation shall occur, or continue to occur, shall
be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties
provided herein, the village may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court
cost, court reporters' fees and other expenses of litigation by appropriate
suit at law against the person found to have violated this chapter or the
orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued thereunder.
   (D)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage caused by such
violation. The village shall bill the person or persons for the costs incurred
by the village (caused by the violation).
(Ord. 6885, passed 4-10-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Codes Adopted
   
70.01   Adopting Michigan Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.02   Adoption of Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.03   References in code
Trucks
   
70.15   Truck route established
 
   
70.99   Penalty
CODES ADOPTED
§ 70.01 ADOPTING MICHIGAN UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages
promulgated by the Commissioner of State Police on February 14, 1958 and
published in Supplement No. 13, and as amended both on February 14, 1961 and
published in Supplement No. 25, and on February 26, 1968 and published in
Supplement No. 54 to the 1954 Michigan Administrative Code, in accordance with
Public Act 62 of 1956, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.951 through 257.955, is hereby
adopted by reference as in this section modified.
   (B)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages to “governmental unit” shall mean the “Village of Pewamo.”
   (C)   A complete copy of the Uniform Traffic Code is retained in the village
office for inspection.
   (D)   This section shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 24, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, in accordance with Public Act 300 of 1949, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq. is hereby adopted by reference as may be modified in
this chapter.
§ 70.03 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to governmental unit shall mean this
village.
TRUCKS
§ 70.15 TRUCK ROUTE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The roadway set forth in
Chapter 72, Schedule I is hereby designated as a truck route through the
village. All trucks passing through the village shall only be operated over and
along the truck route established.
   (B)   No person shall operate or haul or cause to be operated or hauled any
vehicle, truck, truck tractor, trailer or semi-trailer of width, height, length
or weight in excess of the limitations governing size and weight restrictions
specified by the Uniform Traffic Code upon any roadway through the village
except upon the designated truck route.
   (C)   This section shall not prohibit:
      (1)   Operation of emergency vehicles and public utility vehicles upon
any roadway in the village;
      (2)   Operation of trucks on East Main Street utilizing the Schafer
Petroleum Station; or
      (3)   Delivery trucks and/or school buses with a specific destination
within the village.
   (D)   This section shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 18, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Restricted parking
§ 71.01 RESTRICTED PARKING.
   The village also prohibits the parking of any vehicle on the streets of the
village between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. Violator cars shall be
removed at owner’s expense.
(Ord. 24, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The following roadway is hereby designated as a truck route through
the village:
 
Street       Description                                  Ord. No. Date Passed
State Street Running from the south village limits to the 18       8-2-1993
             north village limits
 
   (B)   Exceptions to this are listed in §
70.15.
(Ord. 18, passed 8-2-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Prohibited conduct
   
73.04   Permitted ATV/ORV operation
   
73.05   Permitted golf cart operation
   
73.06   Alcoholic liquor and controlled substances
   
73.07   State law provisions
   
73.08   Enforcement officers
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 PURPOSE.
   A chapter by the village for the purpose of authorizing and regulating the
operation of ATV/ORV's and golf carts within the village, for purpose of
providing penalties for the violation thereof, and for distribution of public
funds resulting from those penalties pursuant to 2008 P.A. 240, as amended,
M.C.L.A. § 324.81131.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings, unless the context in which they are used specifically
indicates otherwise:
   ATV/ORV. A motorized off-road vehicle recreational vehicle capable of cross
country travel without benefit of road or trail, on or immediately over land or
other natural terrain. ATV/ORV includes multi-wheel drive or multi-track
vehicles, ATV's, motorcycle or related two-wheel, three- wheel or four-wheel
vehicles, amphibious machines or other means of transport deriving motive power
from a source other than muscle or wind.
   CIS TRAIL. The non-motorized "rails to trails" corridor that runs from the
City of Ionia to the City of Owosso and travels through the Village of Pewamo.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A license, temporary instruction permit, or temporary
license issued under the laws of the State of Michigan that provides authority
to operate a motor vehicle.
   FAR RIGHT OF THE MAINTAINED PORTION OF THE ROADWAY. The right shoulder of a
street, but does not include the sidewalk or the unimproved portion of the
corresponding right-of-way.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled vehicle designed for general use on a golf course,
powered by a gasoline or electric engine and, depending on design, having turf
type tires or knobby tires with bench type seats. 
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to be in actual physical control of the
operation of an ATV/ORV or golf cart. 
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of an ATV/ORV or golf cart.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SAFETY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued pursuant to 1994 P.A. 451, as
amended, M.C.L.A. § 324.81129, or a comparable ORV safety certificate issued
under the authority of another state or a province of Canada.
   SHOULDER. That portion of the street contiguous to the roadway generally
extending the contour of the roadway, not designed for vehicular travel but
maintained for the temporary accommodation of disabled or stopped vehicles
otherwise permitted on the roadway.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or lateral lines
of the street and adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE ROAD. M-21 as it travels through the Village of Pewamo. 
   STREET or ROAD. The entire width between the boundary lines of a way
publically maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel, except a state road as defined herein. 
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo, Michigan. 
   VISUAL SUPERVISION. The direct observation of the operator with the unaided
or normally corrected eye, where the observer is able to come to the aid of the
operator.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.03 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Except as otherwise permitted under this chapter, no person shall:
   (A)   Operate an ATV/ORV or golf cart on any sidewalk or shoulder of the
road within the village;
   (B)   Operate an ATV/ORV or golf cart on the CIS Trail; and
   (C)   Operate a golf cart on village streets during the time period from one
half hour before sunset to one-half hour after sunrise.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.04 PERMITTED ATV/ORV OPERATION.
   (A)   A person may operate an ATV/ORV on the far right of the maintained
portion of the roadway on all streets within the village, except as prohibited
under §
73.03 above.
   (B)   When operating an ATV/ORV as authorized under this chapter, the
operator shall comply with all of the following regulations:
      (1)   The operator shall be a person 12 years of age or older;
      (2)   The operator and any passenger shall wear a crash helmet and
protective eyewear approved by the United States Department of Transportation,
unless an ATV/ORV is equipped with a roof that meets or exceeds the standards
for a crash helmet and the operator and any passenger wear a properly adjusted
and fastened seatbelt. Not more than two persons shall be permitted to ride on
an ATV/ORV;
      (3)   If the operator is a person 12 years of age or older, but less than
16 years of age, then the operator shall be under the direct visual supervision
of a parent or guardian and shall have in his or her immediate possession a
safety certificate;
      (4)   If the operator is a person 16 years of age or older, but less than
18 years of age, then the operator shall have in his or her immediate
possession a valid driver's license or a valid official state personal
identification card and a safety certificate or he or she shall be under the
direct visual supervision of a parent or guardian and shall have in his or her
immediate possession a safety certificate;
      (5)   If the operator is a person 18 years of age or older, then the
operator shall have in his or her immediate possession a valid driver's license
or a valid official state personal identification card;
      (6)   If an ATV/ORV is a three-wheeled ATV, then the operator shall be a
person 16 years of age or older (all other requirements under this chapter
shall also apply);
      (7)   If an ATV/ORV is registered as a motor vehicle and is either more
than 60 inches wide or has three wheels, then the operator shall have in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver's license;
      (8)   An ATV/ORV shall not be operated at a speed greater than 25 miles
per hour or at a speed greater than any posted speed limit. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, an ATV/ORV shall be operated at a safe speed for the conditions
existing at the time of the operation;
      (9)   An ATV/ORV shall be operated with the flow of traffic on the street
and shall observe and obey all applicable village ordinances and state traffic
laws;
      (10)   An ATV/ORV shall be operated in a manner that does not interfere
with vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any street;
      (11)   An ATV/ORV shall at all times shall be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise and annoying smoke. No ATV/ORV operated within the village limits shall
have the baffles of its muffler removed, destroyed or damaged, nor shall any
ATV/ORV operated within the village have a muffler cutout, bypass or similar
device; and
      (12)   An ATV/ORV shall at all times be operated displaying a lighted
headlight and lighted taillight.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.05 PERMITTED GOLF CART OPERATION.
   (A)   A person may operate a golf cart on the far right of the maintained
portion of the roadway on all streets in the village, except as prohibited
under §
73.03 above.
   (B)   When operating a golf cart as authorized by this chapter, the operator
shall comply with all the following regulations:
      (1)   The operator of the golf cart must be at least 16 years old and
possess a valid drivers license;
      (2)   A golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements of Section
648 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, P.A. 300 of 1949, as amended, M.C.L.A. §
257.648, that apply to the operation of a vehicle;
      (3)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 miles per
hour and shall not be operated on a street with a speed limit of more than 30
miles per hour except to cross M-21. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a golf cart
shall be operated at a safe speed for the conditions existing at the time of
the operation;
      (4)   A person operating a golf cart shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway a practicable, exercising due care when passing standing vehicle
or one proceeding in the same direction. A golf cart shall be operated with the
flow of traffic on the street and shall observe and obey all applicable village
ordinances and state traffic laws. A golf cart shall be operated in a manner
that does not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any street; and
      (5)   A person shall operate a golf cart according to § 657a of the
Michigan Vehicle Code, P.A. 300 of 1949, as amended, M.C.L.A. § 257.657a, when
operating a golf cart within the Village of Pewamo.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.06 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   A person shall not operate an ATV/ORV or golf cart while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor; a controlled substance as defined under P.A. 368
of 1978, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.; or a combination of
alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
   (B)   The owner or person in charge or control of an ATV/ORV or golf cart
shall not authorize or knowingly permit the ATV/ORV or golf cart to be operated
by a person who is under the influence of alcoholic liquor; a controlled
substance as defined under P.A. 368 of 1978, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101
et seq.; or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor under
the village code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.07 STATE LAW PROVISIONS.
   Nothing contained within this chapter shall be construed to relieve a person
of the duties and obligations imposed under state law or the rules and
regulations imposed by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources or the
Michigan State Police.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.08 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   Officers of the Ionia County Sheriff's Department are hereby designated as
the authorized officials to enforce this chapter and issue appropriate
citations for alleged violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided under §
73.06, a person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be responsible
for a municipal civil infraction as defined in P.A. 12 of 1994, amending P.A.
236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through 600.9939, and shall be subject
to a civil fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   In addition to the fine specified in division (A) above, the court may
order a person who causes damage to the environment, a street, or other
property as a result of the operation of an ATV/ORV or golf cart, to pay full
restitution for that damage.
   (C)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit all fines and damages received by
the village from the courts under this chapter into the general fund.
(Ord. 2015-105, passed 10-5-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NUISANCES, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
      
94.   PERMITS AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
95.   TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Treatment of animals
   
90.02   Deposit of poisonous substances prohibited
   
90.03   Keeping of livestock
   
90.04   Dogs at large
   
90.05   Number of animals; license required
   
90.06   Fowl and bees
   
90.07   Barking dogs prohibited
   
90.08   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat or abuse any animal or bird.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEPOSIT OF POISONOUS SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any exposed
public or private place where it endangers or is likely to endanger any animal
or bird.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   The keeping of livestock within the village is prohibited.
   (A)   No cattle or swine or horses shall be kept in any dwelling or part
thereof within the village.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public zoo
maintained under municipal supervision or to any livestock auction barn
lawfully established prior to the effective date of this chapter, or to
livestock kept in connection with the operation of a farm, in an area
designated by the Zoning Ordinance of the village or amendments thereto as an
agricultural area.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DOGS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person having the
possession, care, custody or control thereof to permit any dog to run at large
upon the public streets, walks, parks or other public places within the
village, unless such dog shall be attached to a leash of sufficient strength to
restrain such dog in such manner as to be kept under the control of the person
accompanying it.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUMBER OF ANIMALS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep more than three dogs, cats or any combination of three
dogs and/or cats in his or her premises, within the village, within first
obtaining a kennel license for said operation of a kennel, it being deemed that
the keeping of more than three dogs and/or cats shall be deemed a kennel
operation and subject to being licensed as same. It is further provided that no
dog shall require a license until it has attained the age of one year.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 FOWL AND BEES.
   (A)   No person shall keep or own any domestic fowl, geese, ducks, bees or
poultry within the limits of the village unless said fowl are so kept or
confined that they or any of them cannot be, and are not at any time, upon or
running upon the land and property of another person.
   (B)   Keeping of female chickens (hens).
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         ADJACENT PROPERTY. All parcels of property that the applicant's
property comes into contact with at one or more points but does not include
parcels that are legally adjacent to but are, in fact, separated from the
applicant's property by public or private street.
         BACKYARD. That portion of a lot enclosed by the property's rear lot
line and the side lot lines to the points where the side lot lines intersect
with an imaginary line established by the rear of the single-family or two-
family structure and extending to the side lot lines.
         DUCK. Either a male drake or a female duck of all other breeds of
ducks.
         FOWL. Either hens or ducks.
         HEN. A female chicken and does not include roosters.
         PRIVATE RESTRICTIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, deed
restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions, neighborhood associations
by-laws, and covenant deeds.
         RESIDENT. Any person living in the Village of Pewamo.
      (2)   Residents may keep hens (chickens) in the Village of Pewamo,
subject to all the following requirements:
         (a)   A permit must be obtained under division (3) of this section
before acquiring hens (chickens);
         (b)   The principal use of the resident's property must be a single-
family dwelling or two-family dwelling;
         (c)   No more than four hens (chickens) may be kept on a single
parcel;
         (d)   No roosters, ducks or geese, male or female, will be allowed
within the Village of Pewamo;
         (e)   Hens (chickens) may be only kept in the backyard;
         (f)   Hens (chickens) must be provided with a covered enclosure and
must be kept in the covered enclosure or in a fenced enclosure at all times.
Fenced enclosures are subject to all village fence regulations;
         (g)   A covered or fenced enclosure must be at least ten feet from any
property line of an adjacent property;
         (h)   A covered or fenced enclosure must be at least 40 feet from any
residential structure or an adjacent property; however, this requirement may be
waived as follows:
            1.   If the principal use of resident's property is for a single-
family dwelling, all adjacent landowners must verify in writing that there is
no objection to the issuance of the permit.
            2.   If the principal use of the resident's property is for a two-
family dwelling, all adjacent landowners and the occupants of the dwelling must
verify in writing that there is no objection to the issuance of the permit.
         (i)   All enclosures for the keeping of hens (chickens) must be
constructed or repaired so as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from
being harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure;
         (j)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of hens
(chickens) that are likely to attract rats, mice, or other rodents must be
protected so as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from coming into
contact with them; and
         (k)   A person who has been issued a permit issued must submit it for
examination on demand by the Zoning Code Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   To obtain a permit to keep hens (chickens), a resident must submit
an application to the Village Clerk. The application must be accompanied by the
following:
         (a)   Written consent waiving the distance requirement in division (2)
(h) above, if applicable; and
         (b)   A filing fee, if any, as determined by Village Council
resolution.
      (4)   The Village Clerk will grant a permit to keep hens (chickens) if
the applicant meets the conditions under division (2). Permits expire three
years after date of issuance. A resident who wishes to continue keeping hens
(chickens) must obtain a new permit on or before the expiration date of the
previous permit. Application for a new permit will be pursuant to the
procedures and requirements that are applicable at the time the person applies
for a new permit.
      (5)   If a resident granted a permit under this section fails to comply
with the requirements listed under division (2), the village may revoke the
permit and may initiate prosecution for a civil infraction violation.
      (6)   Private restrictions on the use of property remain enforceable and
take precedence over a permit to keep hens (chickens). A permit issued to a
person whose property is subject to private restrictions that prohibit the
keeping of hens (chickens) is void. Interpretation and enforcement of private
restrictions is the sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
      (7)   The Village Clerk will mail a copy of a permit issued under this
section to the owners of adjacent property.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993; amended 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 BARKING DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own, harbor or keep any dog which, by loud or frequent or
habitual barking, yelping or howling, shall cause annoyance to a resident of
the village.
§ 90.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its adoption.
(Ord. 4, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter (except § 90.01) shall be
punished as a municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances. Any person violating any provision of §
90.01 shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Definitions; amendments to Code
   
91.04   Stricter requirements
   
91.05   Effective date
Recreational Fires
   
91.20   Dimension; permit not required
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Guidelines
   
91.23   Fees/charges
   
91.24   Conflicts
   
91.25   Amendments
   
91.26   Effective date
Burning of Waste, Trash and Garbage
   
91.40   Unlawful
   
91.41   Burner barrels
   
91.42   Trash container regulations
   
91.43   Burning of grass or brush
   
91.44   Effective date
Regulation of Wood-Fired Boilers, Stoves and Furnaces
   
91.55   Definitions
   
91.56   Guidelines
   
91.57   Outdoor wood-fired boilers, stoves or furnaces
   
91.58   Right of entry and inspection
   
91.59   Enforcement
   
91.60   Conflict of ordinances
   
91.61   Amendments
   
91.62   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions, hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
the Basic Fire Prevention Code, 2009 Edition, as amended, as published by the
Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., 17926 South
Halsted Street, Homewood, Illinois, 60430, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended herein.
   (B)   A complete copy of this code, and supplements thereto, are available
for public use and inspection in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   From and after the date on which this Code shall take effect, the
provisions of said Basic Fire Prevention Code and supplements thereto shall be
controlling within the limits of the village.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department and those persons designated by him or her and serving under him or
her.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS; AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   Wherever the words “name of jurisdiction” are used in the Code herein
adopted, those words shall mean the “Village of Pewamo” and its prescribed
jurisdictional boundaries. Wherever the words “name of state” are used, they
shall mean the “State of Michigan”.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 91.04 STRICTER REQUIREMENTS.
   The Code hereby adopted is amended to the extent that when any statute of
this state or any ordinance of the village shall impose greater or more
stringent requirements, the more stringent or more restrictive requirement
shall apply; that no ordinance of the village setting forth less stringent
requirements shall be operative, the more restrictive requirements of either
document being deemed to apply.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 91.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in full force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 10, passed 8-2-1993)
RECREATIONAL FIRES
§ 91.20 DIMENSION; PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   No permit is required for recreational fires under three feet in diameter
and three feet high.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Council of said village, the legislative and governing body
thereof.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel; contained within
the border of a recreational fire site; using dry, clean wood (no building
materials); producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the property
line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for recreational
ceremonies; food preparation or social purposes; extinguished completely before
quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors, burning
bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety hazards will not be
created. Fires will not be allowed to smolder; a flame must be present.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than three feet in diameter or
nine square feet (measured from the inside of the fire ring or border) and
three feet high; completely surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke- or
odor-producing material, either of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks
of ferrous metal only; and is located depressed below ground, on the ground or
on a raised bed. Included are permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. In no
event shall a recreational fire be closer than 15 feet to any structure. Mobile
cooking devices such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers
and propane or natural gas devices are not defined as recreational fires.
Burning barrels are prohibited.
   STARTER FUELS PERMITTED. Dry paper, clean cardboard, liquid charcoal fire
starter or dry and clean kindling/limbs.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Recreational fires are allowed at a recreational fire site within the
village when the following guidelines are followed.
      (1)   The fire is contained to a three by three by three area; this can
be in-ground, on-ground or in a freestanding, pre-manufactured fireplace and
must be at least 15 feet from any building or combustible structure such as
decks or fences.
      (2)   The fire must be located on the user’s own property. If the fire is
in an easement area, the user must have approval from all involved parties.
      (3)   Only wood may be burned, with a minimum of one inch diameter. No
brush, yard waste or treated wood may be burned.
      (4)   No rubbish can be burned at any time.
      (5)   Burning barrels are prohibited.
      (6)   A responsible adult must be present at all times.
      (7)   Fires are not allowed if winds are in excess of 15 mph.
      (8)   A means of controlling or extinguishing the fire must be available
at all times (extinguisher, garden hose, shovel and loose dirt, for example).
      (9)   Hours for recreational fires are limited to 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
      (10)   Fires must be completely extinguished before leaving them
unattended. Users must use care when extinguishing the fire to avoid throwing
embers into the air and to prevent damage if a manufactured device is in use.
      (11)   Any police or fire officer may withdraw permission for
recreational fires due to climatic conditions, extreme dryness, nuisance
problems or violations of these guidelines.
   (B)   State-issued burning restrictions/bans may impact/override this
subchapter. High winds and/or dry conditions require extra attention and safety
for even the smallest fire. “If in doubt, put it out.”
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 FEES/CHARGES.
   Charges for services furnished by the Fire Department due to a recreational
fire violation, safety nuisance or residential complaint to any premises shall
be the responsibility of the property owner. The fee for fire services is $450
for the first hour of service and $300 for each additional hour of service. If
these charges are not paid and become delinquent six months or more, the
charges will be placed on the next tax roll against the premises to which such
services shall have been rendered, and said charges shall be collected and a
lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to taxes
assessed upon such roll, and the property owner will be responsible for payment
of all charges.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.24 CONFLICTS.
   This subchapter is intended to replace and supersede all existing village
ordinances pertaining to the administration, definition, enforcement, charges
and related matters pertaining to the allowance of recreational fires within
the village. Accordingly, all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith and relating to a recreational fire are hereby repealed. It is
understood, however, that the adoption of this subchapter, or its subsequent
amendment or repeal, shall in no way change, relieve or release the existing
obligations or any prior violations of prior ordinances of any person with
respect to the system.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.25 AMENDMENTS.
   The village specifically reserves the right to amend this subchapter, in
whole or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by
such amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease or otherwise modify any
of the guidelines, restrictions or fees herein provided.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 91.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This amended subchapter shall take effect 20 days after its passage.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 8-10-2009)
BURNING OF WASTE, TRASH AND GARBAGE
§ 91.40 UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to any trash, paper,
garbage, grass, leaves or other matter within the village for any reason,
except as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 BURNER BARRELS.
   The operation and use of any “burner barrels”, trash barrels to contain fire
or other fire disposal systems are prohibited within the village.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 TRASH CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   Trash containers in the village shall be of an approved, covered
construction and shall at all times remain closed and/or covered; the storage
of trash, paper, garbage or other matter, within the village, in the open or
open to the air, is specifically prohibited.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 BURNING OF GRASS OR BRUSH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to any grass or brush within
the village without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Fire Chief of
the Fire Department of Lyons Township; such permission may be given whenever
the same may be safely burned upon such reasonable conditions and restrictions
as the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall prescribe.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.44 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-2-1993)
REGULATION OF WOOD-FIRED BOILERS, STOVES AND FURNACES
§ 91.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Council of said village, the legislative and governing body
thereof.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILERS, STOVES OR FURNACES. A structure:
      (1)   Designed, intended or used to provide heat and/or hot water to any
residence or other structure;
      (2)   That operates by the burning of wood or other solid fuel; and
      (3)   Is not located within a structure used for human or animal
habitation.
   REFUSE. Any waste material, garbage, animal carcasses and trash or household
materials except trees, logs, brush and stumps.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 91.56 GUIDELINES.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all outdoor wood-fired boilers, stoves or
furnaces within the village.
   (B)   (1)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
      (2)   This subchapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a
building used for human or animal habitation.
      (3)   This subchapter does not apply to use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 91.57 OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILERS, STOVES OR FURNACES.
   The following provisions shall apply to outdoor wood-fired boilers, stoves
or furnaces in the village.
   (A)   From and after effective date of this subchapter, installation of
outdoor wood-fired boilers, stoves or furnaces is and shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Outdoor wood-fired boilers, stoves or furnaces which are in existence
within the village and which are operable shall be permitted to continue,
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Such pre-existing devices located within 300 feet of a dwelling
located outside of the property where the device is located shall not be
operated between May 1 and October 1;
      (2)   Such pre-existing devices shall not be replaced, relocated or
enlarged;
      (3)   All such pre-existing devices shall be equipped with a chimney
extending not less than 15 feet above the ground. In addition, if such device
is located within 500 feet of any dwelling, the chimney shall be of sufficient
height to effectively disburse smoke to the extent necessary to avoid being a
nuisance or adversely impacting such dwellings; and
      (4)   Except as to compliance with minimum height requirements, all
chimneys shall conform to the specifications of the manufacturer of such
outdoor wood-fired boiler, stove or furnace.
   (C)   Other than wood in its natural state, only processed wood products
that are designed and manufactured for use in outdoor wood-fired boilers,
stoves or furnaces shall be burned therein. The burning of refuse, garbage and/
or parts and waste, leaves and green vegetative matter is prohibited.
   (D)   Outdoor wood-fired boilers, stoves, furnaces and any electrical
plumbing, mechanical or other apparatus connected to or used in connection with
such devices shall be maintained and operated in accordance with the
manufacturer’s standards and recommendations, and in compliance with all
applicable local, state and federal codes, laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   Upon receipt of a report or complaint that there has been a violation of
this subchapter, the Zoning Administrator for any authorized DPW employee or
Council member of the village may inspect any property for the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 91.59 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The following enforcement and penalties shall apply to outdoor wood-
fired boilers, stoves or furnaces in the village.
   (B)   Authority to enforce this subchapter is hereby given to:
      (1)   The Village Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   The Village DPW Supervisor in the Zoning Administrator’s absence or
in the event of a conflict of interest; or
      (3)   Any officer, agent, employee or representative to whom such
authority has been delegated by the Village Council in the event of absence or
a conflict involving both.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.60 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES.
   This subchapter is intended to replace and supersede all existing village
ordinances pertaining to the administration, definition, enforcement, charges
and related matters pertaining to the allowance of outdoor wood-fired boilers,
stoves or furnaces within the village. Accordingly, all ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith and relating to outdoor wood-fired boilers,
stoves or furnaces are hereby repealed. It is understood, however, that the
adoption of this subchapter, or its subsequent amendment or repeal, shall in no
way change, relieve or release the existing obligations or any prior violation
of prior ordinances of any person with respect to the village operations.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 91.61 AMENDMENTS.
   The village specifically reserves the right to amend the ordinance, in whole
or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by such
amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease or otherwise modify any of the
guidelines, restrictions or fees herein provided.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 91.62 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 20 days after its passage.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be punished as a municipal civil
infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.40 through
91.44 shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction of Sidewalks
   
92.01   Notice to construct/repair sidewalk; new home construction
   
92.02   Supervision of work
   
92.03   Village to pay portion of construction costs
   
92.04   Property owner to pay portion of construction costs
   
92.05   Responsibility of property owner to build/maintain
   
92.06   Failure to construct
   
92.07   Timeframe to pay
   
92.08   Removal of snow and ice; responsibility
   
92.09   Effective date
Installation of Culverts
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Specifications
   
92.22   Number of driveways
   
92.23   Joint driveway
   
92.24   Residential driveways standard
   
92.25   Indemnifications
   
92.26   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driveway permits, see §§
94.020 through
94.025
   Driveway standards, residential and commercial, see §§
94.040 through
94.065
   Streets in subdivisions, curbing, see §
152.35
CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS
§ 92.01 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT/REPAIR SIDEWALK; NEW HOME CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever any sidewalk shall be ordered constructed, repaired or
replaced by the Council of said village, it shall be the duty of the Village
Superintendent to give the property owner due and timely notice thereof, which
in no case shall be less than 24 hours.
   (B)   For new home construction single-family developments, sidewalks must
be four feet wide on the address side only of the property, at the homeowner’s
expense. These sidewalks must run from property line to property line and must
be completed before occupancy.
   (C)   The Village Council may waive the requirement for a sidewalk when, in
the opinion the Village Council, the sidewalk would serve no purpose.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993; Minutes, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.02 SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   All sidewalks constructed, repaired or replaced within the limits of said
village shall be under the supervision of the Village Superintendent and
approved by the Village Council.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 92.03 VILLAGE TO PAY PORTION OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
   The village will hereafter pay 50% of the construction costs of any new,
repaired or replacement sidewalk within the limits of said village.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 92.04 PROPERTY OWNER TO PAY PORTION OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS.
   The property owner shall hereafter pay 50% of the construction costs of any
new, repaired or replacement sidewalk which shall border his or her property
within the limits of said village.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 92.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER TO BUILD/MAINTAIN.
   No person shall permit any sidewalk which adjoins property owned by him or
her to fall into a state of disrepair or to be unsafe. It further is provided
that, should the Village Superintendent deem any part or portion of sidewalks
within the village limits to require repair or replacement, the same shall be
referred to the Village Council, which then may, by resolution, require the
owners of lots and premises to build or repair sidewalks adjacent to and
abutting upon such lots and premises as designated. When such resolution shall
be adopted, the Village Clerk shall give notice thereof to the owner of such
lot or premises, requiring him or her to construct or rebuild such sidewalks
within 60 days from the date of such notice.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT.
   If the owner of such lot or premises shall fail to build or construct any
particular sidewalk, as described in said notice by the Village Council, and
within the time and within the manner required herein, the Village
Superintendent is hereby authorized and required to immediately after the
expiration of the time limited for the construction or rebuilding by the owner,
to cause such sidewalk to be constructed, and the expense thereof shall be
charged to such premises and to the owner thereof and collected as provided for
the village taxes in the village.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 92.07 TIMEFRAME TO PAY.
   Resident has one year from the date of billing to pay for his or her portion
of the sidewalk.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 92.08 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The occupant of every lot or premises adjoining any street, or the owner of
such lot or premises, if the same are not occupied, shall clear all ice and
snow from sidewalks, adjoining such lot or premises within the time herein
required. When any such snow or ice shall fall during daylight hours, such snow
or ice shall be removed within 24 hours after cessation. If a fall of snow or
ice shall fall during the nighttime, it shall be cleared 24 hours after
cessation.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993; Ord. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 92.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 22, passed 8-2-1993)
INSTALLATION OF CULVERTS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CULVERT. A pipe that carries water from one side of road or driveway to
other side.
   PERMIT. The zoning/construction permit.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The property owner applying for permit.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS. A method for ingress/egress to provide parking
entirely on the property owner’s parcel of land.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo.
   VILLAGE DPW. The Village DPW Superintendent.
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.21 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A zoning/construction permit must be issued prior to any work starting
and must be done in accordance with the plan specifications, maps and local
ordinances and must be approved by Zoning Administrator and Village DPW
Superintendent. Applicant will be responsible for completion of all items of
construction set forth in the construction permit prior to the expiration date
on the permit. Once completed, the applicant will be responsible for notifying
the Village DPW Superintendent so that a compliance inspection can be
scheduled.
   (B)   (1)   Permit must be approved before work commences. The permit must
be on-site during construction.
      (2)   Permits will be issued at no charge to property owner.
      (3)   The permit holder under this permit shall be required to work in a
safe manner, furnish, install and maintain all necessary traffic controls and
protection during construction in accordance with the Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices and to keep the area affected by this permit in
a safe condition (any damages or debris drug into the shoulder or roadway must
be repaired or removed promptly by applicant) until work is completed as deemed
necessary by the Village DPW.
      (4)   The Village DPW reserves the right to halt any and all activities
in the case of a permit violation, revocation or failure to obtain an
appropriate permit.
      (5)   The permit may be suspended or revoked for failure to comply with
permit, local or safety requirements, and the permit holder shall surrender and
alter, relocate or remove its facilities at its expense, following the request
of the Village DPW.
      (6)   This permit does not relieve permit holder from meeting other
applicable laws and regulations of other agencies. The permit holder is
responsible for obtaining additional permits or releases, which may be required
in connection with this work from other government agencies, public utilities,
including property owners. Permission may be required from the adjoining
property owners.
      (7)   The period applied for and granted in this application and permit
covers activity within the right-of-way. Failure of the permit holder to finish
work with one year from date of issuance shall cancel this permit.
      (8)   The permit holder must comply with the requirements of Public Act
53 of 1974 as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 460.701 to 460.718 (call Miss Dig), at
least three full working days, but not more than 21 calendar days, before he or
she starts work.
      (9)   Changes in the driveway surface (graveled to paved or concrete)
shall require the property owner to obtain a new permit.
      (10)   All portions of a residential driveway shall be located entirely
within the applicant’s property line and must extend a minimum of 25 feet from
the property line into the applicant’s property.
      (11)   No portion of the driveway entrance within the road right-of-way
or a minimum of ten feet from the edge of the road shall have a grade greater
than one foot vertical in ten feet horizontal.
      (12)   No portion of a residential driveway shall be located closer than
50 feet to the nearest right-of way line of an intersecting roadway.
      (13)   All drives shall enter perpendicular to the existing roadway.
      (14)   All driveways will be at a minimum of 12 feet wide and maximum of
24 feet wide. At minimum driveways shall be surfaced with least six inches of
gravel and have the same slope as the roadway for at least ten feet from the
edge of the traveled roadway.
      (15)   Open pavement cuts for the placement of new utilities; tile drains
and the like will not be permitted unless approved by the Village DPW and will
also determine as how the pavement will be replaced.
      (16)   Driveways will be inspected by the Village DPW to determine if
culverts and/or ditching are required. The work will be at the property owner’s
expense and may be done by the owner or private contractor. Culverts shall be
no less than 12-inch diameter installed in line with the road ditch. Culvert
headwalls will not be permitted, but end sections will be allowed.
      (17)   Commercial drives may require concrete curb and gutter and will
paved with bituminous or concrete to the right-of-way line.
      (18)   All backfill within the influence of the roadway curb and gutter
or shoulder edge shall be placed and compacted according to current MDOT
specifications. Density testing will be required
      (19)   The property owner shall maintain brush cutting and clear vision
along the property owner’s frontage.
      (20)   When the permit work is completed, the property owner shall notify
the Village DPW so work can be inspected and given final approval for work
done.
      (21)   The village will be responsible for maintenance and replacement of
existing and approved installations of driveway culverts.
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.22 NUMBER OF DRIVEWAYS.
   One driveway is allowed for residential property, held in one piece, with
frontage less than or equal to 150 feet. One additional residential driveway
may be permitted where frontage exceeds 150 feet. Two residential driveways may
be permitted, in lieu of the above requirements, to serve a circle driveway if
the frontage is 100 feet or more.
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.23 JOINT DRIVEWAY.
   When both property owners abutting a common property line agree, they may
construct a joint residential driveway which shall have a minimum width of 20
feet and a maximum of 30 feet. No more than two residential homes will be
allowed to share a residential driveway.
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.24 RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS STANDARD.
   The standard shall be used unless engineering judgment determines that
another dimension within the range is more suitable for a particular site or
special condition and is approved by the Village Zoning Committee.
 
Design Features    Standard   Range
Driveway width     12 feet    10 to 24 feet
Entering radius    15 feet    10 to 20 feet
Exiting radius     10 feet    8 to 15 feet
Intersecting angle 90 degrees 80 to 100 degrees
 
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.25 INDEMNIFICATIONS.
   Permit holder shall hold harmless and indemnify and keep indemnified the
village, its officers and employees from all claims, suits and judgment to
which the village, its officers or employees may be subject and for all cost
and actual attorneys’ fees which may be incurred on account of injury to
persons or damage to property, including property of the village, whether due
to negligence of the permit holder or the joint negligence of the permit holder
and the village, arising out of the work under this permit, or resulting from
failure to comply with the terms of this permit, or arising out of the
continued existence of the work product which is the subject of this permit.
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 23, passed - -2008)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
93.01   Nuisance defined
   
93.02   Nuisance per se
   
93.03   Excessive noise
   
93.04   Abandoned refrigerators
   
93.05   Effective date
Weeds and Rubbish
   
93.20   Prohibited
   
93.21   Noxious weeds
   
93.22   Declaration as nuisance
   
93.23   Responsibility of owner/occupant
   
93.24   Failure to abate; notice
   
93.25   Abatement by the village
   
93.26   Other remedies
   
93.27   Rubbish in open drains/ditches
 
   
93.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 93.01 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   Whatever annoys, injures, endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose of
the public, offends public decency, interferes with, obstructs or renders
dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake or stream, or in any way, renders
the public insecure in life or property, is hereby declared to be a PUBLIC
NUISANCE. Public nuisances shall include but not be limited to whatever is
forbidden by any provision of this subchapter. No person shall commit, create
or maintain any nuisance within the village limits.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 NUISANCE PER SE.
   The following acts, services, apparatus and/or structures are hereby
declared to be public nuisances per se:
   (A)   The throwing, placing, depositing or leaving in any street, highway,
lane, alley, public place, square or sidewalk, or in any private place or
premises where such throwing, placing, depositing or leaving is in the opinion
of the Village Council dangerous or detrimental to public health, or likely to
cause sickness or attract flies, insects, rodents and/or vermin, by any person
of any animal or vegetable substance, dead animals, fish, shell, tin cans,
bottles, glass or other rubbish, dirt, excrement, filth, unclean or nauseous
water, or fluids, any straw, soot, garbage, swill, animal bones, hides or
horns, rotten soap, grease or tallow, offal or any other offensive article or
substance whatever;
   (B)   Any vehicle used for any immoral or illegal purpose;
   (C)   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines and
newspapers;
   (D)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations;
   (E)   All gambling devices;
   (F)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (G)   The distribution of samples of medicines or drugs unless such samples
are placed in the hands of an adult person;
   (H)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount, contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, or statutes of this state;
   (I)   Any use of public streets and/or sidewalks which causes large crowds
to gather, obstructing the free use of the streets and/or sidewalks;
   (J)   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public place,
or so situated, left or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (K)   The owning, driving or moving upon any public streets and alleys of
trucks or other motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to permit
any part of their load contents to blow, fall or be deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public or private place, or which deposits from its
wheels, tires or other parts onto the street, alley, sidewalk or other public
or private place, dirt, grease, sticky substances or foreign matter of any
kind; provided, however, that under circumstances determined by the Supervisor
of the Department of Public Works to be in the public interest, he or she may
grant persons temporary exemption from the provisions of this section
conditioned upon cleaning and correcting the violating condition at least daily
and execution of an agreement by such person to reimburse the village for any
extraordinary maintenance expenses incurred by the village in connection with
such violation; and
   (L)   The placing or causing to be placed in or on any motor vehicle parked
upon any street, alley or other public place within the corporate limits of the
village, any paper, posters, signs, cards or other advertising matter, but this
prohibition shall not extend to official traffic violation notices.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-2-1993; Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to enhance the preservation of the
public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the residents of, and
visitors to, the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist in the creation
of, permit or continue to permit the emission of any unreasonably loud,
disturbing noise which results in the annoyance, disturbance or injury of
others or endangers the comfort, health, peace and safety of others within the
village limits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to play, use,
operate or permit the playing of any radio, electronic boom box, stereo, stereo
speaker system or other entertainment speakers or other electronic sound
devices or sound-producing devices which are inside or outside of any building,
residence, commercial building, tavern, restaurant or in a parked or moving
vehicle which emits noise in violation of this section. The provisions of this
section shall apply to any and all sources of sound except the following
exemptions:
      (1)   Railroad equipment and operation on a railroad right-of-way;
      (2)   Emergency sounds specifically made to alert persons of the
existence of an impending danger or emergency, i.e., sirens, law enforcement
loudspeakers and the like; and
      (3)   Parades, concerts, festivals, fairs or other activities for which a
license has been obtained from the Village Council.
   (D)   As used in this section, NOISE shall be defined as a sound which is
plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, vehicle, structure
or other source by any person.
   (E)   This section, as amended, shall take effect and be in force 20 days
after its passage.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-2-1993; Ord. 28, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or container having air-tight doors which when
closed, cannot be opened from the inside, without first removing the doors from
said ice box, refrigerator or container so as to leave access and ingress free
and open to the public.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-2-1993)
WEEDS AND RUBBISH
§ 93.20 PROHIBITED.
   No person, corporation, partnership, owner or occupant of land situated
within the village shall suffer or permit any accumulation of waste, paper,
hay, grass, straw, noxious weeds, litter or combustible or flammable waste or
rubbish of any kind. All weeds, grass, vines and other growth, when same
endangers property, is unsightly or is liable to be fired, shall be cut down
and removed by owner or occupant of the property where it is located.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS as used in this subchapter shall include but not be limited
to: Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), dodders (any species of Cuscuta), mustard
(Chailock), black mustard and Indian mustard (species of Brassica or Sinapis),
wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), perennial
sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana), quack-grass
(Agropyron repens), crabgrass, poison ivy, poison sumac or other plant or grass
which, in the opinion of the Village Council, comes within the meaning of this
section, is regarded as a common nuisance.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 93.22 DECLARATION AS NUISANCE.
   The existence of any condition described in §
93.20 is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 93.23 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER/OCCUPANT.
   Whenever any condition as described in §
93.20 shall be found to exist within the village, it shall be the duty of the
owner or occupant of the premises whereon said condition is found to remove
said condition. Specifically it shall be the duty of such owner or occupant to
destroy noxious weeds before they reach seed-bearing stage and to prevent such
weeds from perpetuating themselves, and to keep the level of growth of said
foliage to not more than seven inches in height.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 93.24 FAILURE TO ABATE; NOTICE.
   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of said property to destroy said
weeds or remove said condition, the Village Council shall cause a notice to be
served upon said owner or occupant requiring such removal or destruction within
ten days after service of such notice. Service of said notice shall be in
person or, if such service cannot be so obtained, such notice shall be
conspicuously posted on the property wherein shall specify the condition be
remedied and shall specify that the owner of occupant shall have not longer
than ten days in which to accomplish said removal or destruction. The failure
to receive such notice shall not constitute a defense to any action for cost as
provided in §
93.25. The owner must be responsible and must be aware of the property himself
or herself.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 93.25 ABATEMENT BY THE VILLAGE.
   If such owner or occupant shall fail to remove said condition or destroy
said noxious weeds or cut said foliage after expiration of the time set forth
in said notice, the village, may, without further notice, cause same to be
done. All costs and charges pertaining to said destruction, removal or cutting
shall be paid from the General Fund of the village, and the amount thereof
shall be assessed against said property, placed upon the next tax roll, and
collected as a special assessment. If being mowed by the village, the owner or
occupant will not be charged less than two hours’ labor and two hours’ rental.
Nothing contained herein shall prevent the village from maintaining an action
in debt or assumpsit against the owner or occupant of such premises.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 93.26 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the village from
taking such other action as may be permitted by law relating to abatement of a
nuisance, including but not limited to civil proceedings for injunctive relief.
(Ord. 19, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 93.27 RUBBISH IN OPEN DRAINS/DITCHES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, throw or put any old tin
cans, glass, wood, stone, dirt, rubbish, garbage, oil, petroleum, petroleum
wastes and/or byproducts, chemicals, hazardous chemicals or waste, or any
pollutants into the open drains, ditches, storm sewer, underground drains,
catch basins or any ground located within the village.
   (B)   This section shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 3, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter (except §
93.04) shall be punished as a municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances. Any person violating any provision of §
93.04 shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 94: PERMITS AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Definitions
   
94.002   Applicability
   
94.003   Permits; necessity
   
94.004   Processing of permits
   
94.005   Enforcement
Driveway Permits
   
94.020   Applications
   
94.021   Plans or drawings
   
94.022   Specifications and design standards
   
94.023   Conditions and limitations in permits
   
94.024   Indemnity and insurance
   
94.025   Performance bonds
Driveway Standards
   
94.040   Driveway locations
   
94.041   Clear vision and buffer areas
   
94.042   Design features
   
94.043   Commercial driveways; permits
   
94.044   Commercial driveways; consolidation
   
94.045   Commercial driveways; alteration of dimensions
   
94.046   Commercial driveways; right-turn lanes
   
94.047   Two-way commercial driveways
   
94.048   One-way commercial driveways
   
94.049   Divided commercial driveways
   
94.050   Dual service driveways
   
94.051   Directional commercial driveways
   
94.052   Residential driveways; number and separation
   
94.053   Residential driveway dimensions
   
94.054   Field entrances and utility structure driveways
   
94.055   Surfacing and curbing along curbed streets
   
94.056   Surfacing and curbing along uncurbed streets
   
94.057   Surfacing and curbing of field entrances and utility structure
driveways
   
94.058   Surface materials and thickness
   
94.059   Right-turn lanes and tapers
   
94.060   Shoulders
   
94.061   Driveway curb details
   
94.062   Drainage
   
94.063   Profile
   
94.064   Parking and storage
   
94.065   Traffic signs and markings
Banner and Parade Permits
   
94.080   Permittees
   
94.081   Hearing; request; time; notice; effective date of driveway permit
revocation
   
94.082   Hearing representation
   
94.083   Effective date
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driveway standards, see also §§
92.20 through
92.26
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANNER. An arrangement of words, lettering or symbols or a decorative
device, including a Christmas decoration suspended over any portion of a street
or adjacent to a gravel lane.
   BUFFER AREA. A portion of a street right-of-way adjacent to a pavement that
serves as a physical barrier between street traffic and activity on private
property.
   CIRCLE DRIVEWAY. A private driveway that enters and leaves private property
at two points within the same frontage.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. Land acquired or used by the village over a street for
the purpose of maintaining unobstructed vision.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY. A driveway serving a commercial establishment,
industry, governmental or educational institution, hospital, church, apartment
building or other large traffic generator.
   DIRECTIONAL DRIVEWAY. A driveway designed so that traffic leaving the street
is separated from traffic entering the street with some turning movements
prohibited.
   DIVIDED DRIVEWAY. A driveway designed so that traffic leaving the street is
separated from traffic entering the street.
   DUAL SERVICE DRIVEWAYS. Two adjacent commercial driveways designed to
facilitate traffic movement from a street to a single private property by use
of either driveway and a return to the street by use of the other driveway.
   FIELD ENTRANCE. A driveway serving a farmyard, cultivated or uncultivated
field, timberland or undeveloped land not used for industrial, commercial or
residential purposes.
   FRONTAGE. A private property line that abuts a street right-of-way.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY. A driveway serving a private home.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE.  A boundary between private property and public land
under legal control of the village or another agency having jurisdiction over
the street.
   UTILITY STRUCTURE DRIVEWAY. A driveway serving a utility structure, such as
a pumphouse or substation, which operates automatically and requires only
occasional access.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   These rules apply to all streets under the jurisdiction of the
village.
   (B)   Nothing in these rules shall be construed to prevent the application
of the provisions of any statute of this state or any village ordinance which
is more restrictive than these rules, nor to preclude state or county permits
with respect to any street. No permit shall be issued pursuant to these rules
unless there is compliance with other provisions of law and ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.003 PERMITS; NECESSITY.
   A person, organization or governmental unit shall not undertake or conduct
any of the following activities on or along a street, unless a permit has been
obtained from the Department of Public Works Supervisor:
   (A)   Construct, reconstruct, relocate or surface a driveway or related
construction;
   (B)   Operate, use or maintain a new driveway;
   (C)   Erect or suspend a banner, decoration or similar object; or
   (D)   Close a section of a street to normal traffic for the purpose of
staging a parade, celebration, festival or similar activity.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.004 PROCESSING OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Construction of a new driveway or reconstruction of a driveway
connecting to a street shall be allowed only after a permit has been obtained
from the Department of Public Works Supervisor. The construction or
reconstruction of a driveway shall be as described in the permit and plans or
drawings attached.
   (B)   Future changes in the use of property abutting a street, such as a
change from residential to commercial use or a change in the type of commercial
operation, may require changes in the number, design or location of driveways
constructed after the effective date of these rules. The property owner, when
there is such a change in use, shall obtain a new permit from the Department of
Public Works Supervisor.
   (C)   In the case of commercial, industrial or other developments where
driveway access or related activities may be complicated or where the available
parking area on private property is limited, the Department of Public Works
Supervisor may be contacted in the initial site planning stages before
application for a permit. An approved preliminary site plan satisfactory to all
parties then may be established early in the development process.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If a person fails to comply with any provisions of a permit or fails
to obtain an appropriate permit, the Department of Public Works Supervisor may
halt such person’s activity for which a permit is required until adequate
corrections have been made. Costs incurred by the Department of Public Works
Supervisor in correcting failure to comply with the terms and conditions of a
permit, failure to obtain a permit, or defective workmanship or materials shall
be borne by the applicant or person undertaking the activity.
   (B)   The applicant or his or her representative shall perform all work and
pay all costs in connection with permitted activities.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
DRIVEWAY PERMITS
§ 94.020 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An application for a driveway permit shall be accepted from a property
owner, governmental agency, lessee or a legally authorized agent.
   (B)   An application for a driveway permit shall be submitted in the manner
prescribed on forms supplied by the Department of Public Works. The application
shall contain or be accompanied by a certification of either legal ownership
consisting of a deed or title commitment, or title policy issued by a title
company, and any agency authorization. The application shall be accompanied by
plans or drawings containing the information required by this chapter and shall
include the applicable design features required by §§
94.040 through
94.065.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.021 PLANS OR DRAWINGS.
   Copies of a driveway permit application shall be accompanied by plans or
drawings clearly indicating the following features of the site and abutting
street and such other details as the Department of Public Works may require:
   (A)   Existing street pavement, ditches, right-of-way and property lines,
street appurtenances, utilities, medians, if existing, and dimensions thereof;
   (B)   For commercial driveways, buildings, both proposed and existing, and
appurtenances and dimensions thereof, including a notation as to present use of
the buildings and details of internal traffic circulation, parking and traffic
signs;
   (C)   Design features in accordance with §§
94.040 through
94.065 of driveways, tapers and right-turn lanes to be constructed,
reconstructed, relocated, surfaced, resurfaced, operated, used or maintained,
including the following dimensions and features:
      (1)   Widths of driveways;
      (2)   Radii of driveway returns and other points of curvature;
      (3)   Driveway grades or profile view of drive, when necessary;
      (4)   Angle of the driveway relative to the street centerline;
      (5)   Dimensions of traffic islands adjacent to the street; and
      (6)   Driveway surface material and traffic island surface material.
   (D)   Distance from each existing and proposed driveway on the site to:
      (1)   Nearest intersecting street, road or street;
      (2)   Nearest driveway on adjacent properties;
      (3)   Street, road or driveways opposite the site;
      (4)   Property lines and property lines extended to the street
centerline; and
      (5)   Buildings and business appurtenances on the site.
   (E)   Features in addition to driveways to be constructed within the street
right-of-way, including traffic control islands, curb, sidewalks and authorized
traffic signs;
   (F)   Existing and proposed drainage structures and controls, to include:
      (1)   Size of drive culvert;
      (2)   Type of culvert;
      (3)   Type of culvert end treatment;
      (4)   Grade of culvert; and
      (5)   Direction of surface water flow on or from adjacent property.
   (G)   North directional arrow.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.022 SPECIFICATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design, location, construction and operation of driveways and related
construction within the street right-of-way shall meet requirements of the
current Department of Public Works standard specifications for street
construction and the design standards required by §§
94.040 through
94.065. A deviation therefrom shall be consistent with current and projected
traffic volumes on the street and the driveway, adjacent development,
equivalence of materials and methods, and safety requirements of persons using
the driveways and streets. The deviation shall be in writing authorized only by
the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.023 CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS IN PERMITS.
   A driveway permit is subject to the following conditions and limitations.
   (A)   The Department of Public Works reserves the right of inspection by its
authorized representatives of a driveway constructed within a street right-of-
way. The permittee shall reimburse the Department of Public Works for the
services of any on-the-job inspection which may be required.
   (B)   The Department of Public Works or its representatives shall be given
at least five days’ notice before commencement of an operation covered by the
permit.
   (C)   The permittee shall have a copy of the permit available at the site
during construction.
   (D)   The permittee shall take, provide and maintain necessary precautions
to prevent injury or damage to persons and property from operations covered by
the permit, and shall use warning signs and safety devices which are in
accordance with the current Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (E)   The permittee shall surrender the permit and all rights thereunder
when notified to do so by the Department of Public Works because of its need
for the area covered by the permit or because of default of any provision of
the permit. The Department of Public Works may grant the person a new permit.
   (F)   Altered natural drainage shall not be permitted to flow onto the
street right-of-way unless special provisions are approved by the Department of
Public Works.
   (G)   The permit holder shall remove all surplus materials to an area
outside of the street right-of-way, unless the permit provides for disposal at
locations within the street right-of-way. Excavated material shall be
stockpiled so it does not adversely affect the safety of traffic.
   (H)   Work authorized by the permit shall be completed to the satisfaction
of the Department of Public Works on or before the completion date specified in
the permit. A request for an extension of time for completion of this work
shall include reasons for the request. Approval of extension of time shall be
based on extenuating circumstances and absence of neglect by the permittee.
   (I)   The property owner and his, her or its heirs, successors and assigns,
or his, her or its agent shall maintain the driveways set forth in the permit.
   (J)   The period applied for and granted in this application and permit
covers activity within the right-of-way. Failure of the permit holder to finish
work within one year from date of issuance shall cancel this permit.
   (K)   Permit holders must comply with the requirements of Public Act 53 of
1974, as amended (being M.C.L.A. §§ 460.701 to 460.718). They should call Miss
Dig at (800) 482-7171 at least three full working days, but not more than 21
calendar days, before they start work.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.024 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE.
   A permittee shall save harmless the village and its officers, boards,
Council, employees and agents against any claim for damages arising from
permittee’s negligence or permittee’s contractor’s negligence in operations
covered by the permit. Certificates of insurance may be required in case of a
commercial driveway to insure claims for damage or personal injury. General
liability insurance carried by an applicant or contractor is acceptable and
shall name the village as an additional insured.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.025 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   A performance bond shall be required by a permit which is issued for
construction or reconstruction of a commercial driveway to protect the village
against the cost of completing construction or correcting deficiencies. A
reasonable amount of coverage of the bond shall be determined by the Department
of Public Works Supervisor. A bond shall not be required from a governmental
agency.
   (B)   Acceptable types of bonds may be a certified check or money order
payable to the village or a surety bond acceptable to the village.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
DRIVEWAY STANDARDS
§ 94.040 DRIVEWAY LOCATIONS.
   (A)   A driveway shall be so located that no undue interference with the
free movement of street traffic will result. A driveway shall be so located
also to provide the most favorable vision and grade conditions possible for
motorists using the street and the driveway consistent with development of the
site considering proper traffic operations and safety.
   (B)   A driveway, including the radii, but not including the right-turn
lanes and tapers, shall be located entirely within the area between the
permittee’s property lines extended to the centerline of the street. A driveway
radius may extend, at the discretion of the Department of Public Works, outside
of that area only if the adjacent property owner certifies, in writing, that he
or she will permit such extension.
   (C)   If the driveway is to be located adjacent to a street intersection,
the following shall apply:
      (1)   If the intersecting street is curbed, the point of curvature of the
driveway radius shall be at least 20 feet from the point of curvature of the
intersecting street radius;
      (2)   If the intersecting street is uncurbed, the point of curvature of
the driveway radius shall be at least 50 feet from the edge of pavement of the
intersecting street; or
      (3)   When an existing street or driveway is reconstructed or the
requirements in divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above cannot be applied, the
driveway radius shall not encroach upon the intersection radius unless such
encroachment is physically unavoidable.
   (D)   A driveway shall not be constructed along the acceleration or
deceleration lanes and tapers unless no other reasonable access point is
available.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.041 CLEAR VISION AND BUFFER AREAS.
   (A)   At an intersection or railroad crossing where the village owns limited
access right-of-way to provide a clear vision area, a driveway shall not enter
or cross that clear vision area. At an intersection or railroad crossing where
the village has an easement for a clear vision area, a driveway shall not enter
or cross that clear vision area.
   (B)   Adjacent to and on both sides of a driveway, a buffer area between the
right-of-way and the pavement edge shall be used, as determined by the
Department of Public Works, to provide a physical barrier between street
traffic and activity on private property. A buffer area is needed to provide an
unobscured vision area and to prevent potentially hazardous movement of
vehicles, especially at undesirable angles of approach, from and to the street.
The buffer area shall consist of a lawn area, a low shrub area, a ditch or
equivalent and shall not be used for the parking of vehicles. Where
encroachment of vehicle parking on the buffer area takes place or may take
place, the Department of Public Works may require the buffer area to be
established by guardrail, guard posts, curb or equivalent.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.042 DESIGN FEATURES.
   (A)   The design features described herein and illustrated in Figure 1,
which figure was attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full, shall be used by the applicant in dimensioning
a proposed driveway or driveway system on plans accompanying the driveway
permit application. The dimensions to be used for various driveway design
features, shown as a standard with a working range of dimensions, are given in
Tables 1 to 7, referenced in §§
94.046 to 94.054, attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby adopted by
reference. These standard dimensions shall be used. The Department of Public
Works may specify particular dimensions so a particular driveway system will
accommodate vehicle movements normally expected without creating undue
congestion or hazard on the street or to provide reasonable access.
   (B)   The letters in the following design features refer to features in
Figure 1 which is adopted by reference:
      (1)   Intersecting angle, A, the clockwise angle from a street centerline
to a driveway reference line which is the centerline or the edge of the
driveway;
      (2)   Driveway width, B, the distance between driveway edges of pavement
or edges of the gravel surface measured at the point where the edges of the
driveway become parallel, point B in Figure 1. If the right-of-way line is so
close to the pavement that point B falls on the applicant’s property, then the
width of the driveway at the right-of-way line shall be based on the projected
driveway width;
      (3)   Entering radius, C, the radius of a driveway edge curve on the
right side of a vehicle entering the applicant’s property;
      (4)   Existing radius, D, the radius of a driveway edge curve on the
right side of a vehicle leaving the applicant’s property;
      (5)   Curb ending, E, the length of the height transition of the driveway
curb from ground level to full curb height along an uncurbed street. This curb
transition may be ten feet minimum;
      (6)   Right-turn lane length, F, the length of an auxiliary lane
constructed preceding the driveway to accommodate right-turn traffic entering
the applicant’s property;
      (7)   Right-turn lane width, G, the width edge-to-edge of a right-turn
lane, or the width edge-to-edge at the full width of entering and exiting
tapers;
      (8)   Entering taper, H, the length of a pavement widening, preceding the
driveway for a right-turn lane or taper;
      (9)   Exiting taper, J, the length of a pavement narrowing, following the
driveway;
      (10)   Entrance drive width, K, the width of the portion of a divided or
a directional driveway that is used by a vehicle entering the applicant’s
property;
      (11)   Exit drive width, L, the width of the portion of a divided or a
directional driveway that is used by a vehicle leaving the applicant’s
property;
      (12)   Island width, M, the edge-to-edge distance between an entrance
drive and an exit drive;
      (13)   Island length, N, the distance between ends of the island,
measured parallel to the entrance drive;
      (14)   Nose offset, P, the distance between the edge of pavement and the
traffic island of a divided or directional driveway;
      (15)   Curb cut, R, the length of the opening along a street curb for a
straight-sided residential driveway; and
      (16)   Distance between driveways, S, the inside distance between two
adjacent driveways measured along a street right-of-way line.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.043 COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS; PERMITS.
   A permit application for a commercial driveway shall specify the driveway
system requested, including the number and type: two-way, one-way, divided,
dual service or directional. The Department of Public Works may approve the
requested system or may require changes in it to ensure safe conditions and
necessary spacing between driveways, based on anticipated traffic volumes on
the driveways and on the street, type of traffic to use the driveways, type of
roadside development and other operational considerations.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.044 COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS; CONSOLIDATION.
   Adjacent property owners may consolidate their commercial driveways by using
either a frontage road or a joint driveway system. If the Department of Public
Works approves such a system, a driveway permit shall be issued to all property
owners concerned and shall state that there is an agreement that all properties
shall have access to the street via the frontage road and the joint driveway
system and such an agreement with proof of ownership is submitted to the
Department of Public Works and approved.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.045 COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS; ALTERATION OF DIMENSIONS.
   If the street carries one-way traffic, the dimensions given in Table 2 and
Table 3, which are attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby adopted by
reference, may be altered so that the prohibited movements are discouraged. If
the driveway system is on the left-hand side of a one-way street, the
dimensions used shall be based on the same principles as used on right-hand
side driveways.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.046 COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS; RIGHT-TURN LANES.
   The applicant shall provide right-turn lanes or tapers as part of a
commercial driveway system if the Department of Public Works determines that
such right-turn lanes or tapers are required to minimize congestion or hazard
on the street caused by vehicles entering the applicant’s driveways. A right-
turn lane shall be preceded by a taper. The design feature dimensions of a
right-turn lane and taper shall conform to those given in Table 1 which is
attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.047 TWO-WAY COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS.
   The design feature dimensions of a two-way commercial driveway shall conform
to those given in Table 2 which is attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby
adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.048 ONE-WAY COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS.
   The design feature dimensions of a one-way commercial driveway shall conform
to those given in Table 3 which is attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby
adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.049 DIVIDED COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS.
   A divided commercial driveway shall have a curbed island separating the
entrance drive and the exit drive. The radii forming the edges on this island
shall be designed to accommodate the largest vehicle that will normally use the
driveway. The minimum area of the island shall be 50 square feet. The design
feature dimensions of a divided commercial driveway shall conform to those
given in Table 4 which is attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby adopted by
reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.050 DUAL SERVICE DRIVEWAYS.
   To facilitate vehicle movements between a street and private property when
the major vehicle movement at a commercial establishment is approximately
parallel to the street, such as at a service station or drive-in bank, the
Department of Public Works may permit dual service driveways. The design
feature dimensions of dual service driveways shall conform to those given in
Table 5 which is attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.051 DIRECTIONAL COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAYS.
   A directional commercial driveway is a special case and the driveway shall
be designed individually to facilitate the desired turning movements and to
discourage prohibited movements. Radii shall be as approved by the Department,
based on the driveway intersecting angle and on the turning path of the largest
vehicle that will normally use the driveway.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.052 RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAYS; NUMBER AND SEPARATION.
   (A)   Only one residential driveway shall be permitted for each platted lot
or for unplatted residential property and shall be located so as to provide
access from the adjacent street to a garage or carport.
   (B)   One additional residential driveway may be permitted for residential
property in the event the property is located upon a corner lot or parcel of
property, but shall be permitted to be only eight to ten feet in width,
notwithstanding any other provision that may allow a greater width.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.053 RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY DIMENSIONS.
   The design feature dimensions of a residential driveway shall conform to
those given in Table 6 which is attached to Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby
adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.054 FIELD ENTRANCES AND UTILITY STRUCTURE DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   One field entrance may be permitted for each 1,000 feet of frontage of
cultivated land, timberland or undeveloped land. Additional driveways may be
permitted when a single driveway will not provide adequate access due to
topographic conditions.
   (B)   The design feature dimensions of a field entrance and of a utility
structure driveway shall conform to those given in Table 7 which is attached to
Ordinance 2008-01 and hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.055 SURFACING AND CURBING ALONG CURBED STREETS.
   If a street is curbed, the following driveway surfacing and curbing
requirements apply:
   (A)   A commercial driveway shall be paved and curbed to either the right-
of-way line or to the point of curvature between the driveway edge and the
larger radius, point B in Figure 1, as determined by the Department of Public
Works.
   (B)   A residential driveway shall be paved between the edge of the pavement
and right-of-way line. For a residential driveway, either curb cuts or curb
returns shall be required as determined by the Department of Public Works.
Residential does not need to be paved on village right-of-way.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.056 SURFACING AND CURBING ALONG UNCURBED STREETS.
   If a street is uncurbed, the following driveway surfacing and curbing
requirements apply.
   (A)   A commercial driveway shall be paved and curbed to either the right-
of-way line or to the point of curvature between the driveway edge and the
larger radius, point B in Figure 1, except a commercial driveway may be
uncurbed where there is a proper ditch and other adequate roadside control or
delineation, as determined by the Department of Public Works. The curb ending
adjacent to the Street shall be located at least 13.5 feet from and parallel to
the edge of the pavement.
   (B)   A residential driveway shall be paved and either curb cuts or curb
returns shall be required as determined by the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.057 SURFACING AND CURBING OF FIELD ENTRANCES AND UTILITY STRUCTURE
DRIVEWAYS.
   A field entrance or a utility structure driveway may be surfaced with
stabilized gravel or with sod over a stable base and may be uncurbed, as
determined by the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.058 SURFACE MATERIALS AND THICKNESS.
   The surface of a paved driveway, excluding right-turn lanes, shall be
concrete, bituminous or equivalent surfacing material. The thickness of the
surface and the base to be used shall be sufficient to provide the bearing
capacity needed to carry the proposed traffic loads. A two and one-half inch,
250 pounds per square yard, bituminous mix on eight inches of compacted gravel,
eight inches of unreinforced concrete or equivalent surfacing material which
meets current Michigan Department of Transportation standard specifications for
street construction is acceptable for normal driveway traffic loads over stable
soil.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.059 RIGHT-TURN LANES AND TAPERS.
   (A)   The pavement of a right-turn lane and accompanying tapers shall match
the street pavement, unless the Department of Public Works permits the use of
an equivalent pavement.
   (B)   The cross slope of a right-turn lane and tapers shall be:
      (1)   A continuation of the cross slope of the street, if the street is
curbed; and
      (2)   Equal to the shoulder slope, if the street is uncurbed.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.060 SHOULDERS.
   (A)   The surface of the shoulder adjacent to a right-turn lane and tapers
shall be of the same material as the street shoulder and conform to the current
Michigan Department of Transportation standard specifications for street
construction.
   (B)   If the distance between two paved commercial driveways serving the
same property is less than 100 feet, measured between adjacent ends of the curb
endings, the applicant shall pave the shoulder between the driveways.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.061 DRIVEWAY CURB DETAILS.
   (A)   The driveway curb shall either match the existing street curb or shall
conform to the current Michigan Department of Transportation standards for curb
and gutter.
   (B)   The driveway curb height shall be constant if there is no existing or
proposed sidewalk or if an inclined sidewalk is permitted by the Department of
Public Works.
   (C)   The driveway curb height shall be tapered to zero height at the
sidewalk if the driveway grade meets the grade of an existing or proposed
sidewalk.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.062 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   A driveway shall be constructed so that it does not adversely affect
the street drainage. The drainage and the stability of the street subgrade
shall not be altered by driveway construction or roadside development.
   (B)   Drainage from adjacent parking or storage areas on private property in
excess of existing drainage shall not be discharged into the street drainage
system.
   (C)   Culvert pipe shall be of a size adequate to carry the anticipated
natural flow of the ditch. The culvert shall be no smaller than the nearest
upstream culvert nor less than 12 inches inside diameter. A culvert, catch
basin, drainage channel and other drainage structure required within the street
right-of-way shall be manufactured or constructed and installed in accordance
with the current Michigan Department of Transportation Standard Specifications
for Highway Construction. The minimum length of the culvert may be determined
as the sum of the distance between driveway edges, measured along the ditch
line, plus the distances needed to accommodate an embankment slope not to
exceed one foot vertical for six feet horizontal on both sides of the driveway.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.063 PROFILE.
   A driveway profile shall be determined using the following criteria.
   (A)   If the street is uncurbed, the grade of the driveway between the
street edge of pavement and the edge of the shoulder shall conform to the slope
of the shoulder.
   (B)   If the street is uncurbed or if the sidewalk is more than ten feet
from the edge of the pavement, or if there is no sidewalk:
      (1)   The grade of a two-way, one-way or divided commercial driveway
shall not exceed 1.5% for a minimum distance of 25 feet from the edge of the
pavement. Beyond this distance, the grade shall not exceed 8%; and
      (2)   The grade of a residential or utility structure driveway or field
entrance shall not exceed 10%.
   (C)   If the street is curbed and if the sidewalk is ten feet or less from
the edge of the pavement, the grade of a driveway, except a directional
driveway, shall be the grade required to meet the sidewalk elevation; but if
that grade would exceed the maximums specified in division (B)(2) above, the
sidewalk shall be either tilted or inclined.
   (D)   The grade of a directional driveway shall be designed so to provide
vision of the street edge of pavement and the driveway surface for a distance
of 100 feet along the driveway. For a driveway on an upgrade towards the
street, a grade of 1.5% for a distance of 100 feet from the edge of the
pavement is acceptable. Beyond this distance, the grade shall not exceed 4% and
the difference in grades where there is a change of grade shall not exceed 3%.
   (E)   Vertical curves, with a minimum length of 15 feet, shall be provided
at a change of grade of 4% or more.
   (F)   If the sidewalk elevation has to be adjusted to meet the driveway, the
Department of Public Works may require that the sidewalk be inclined at a rate
not to exceed one foot vertical for every 24 feet horizontal.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.064 PARKING AND STORAGE.
   Adequate storage for vehicle parking, storage or waiting to be serviced
shall be provided outside of the street right-of-way on the property serviced
by the driveway so as not to interfere with pedestrian movements, vision
requirements or traffic operations on the street, and no vehicles shall be
parked on any driveway within the street right-of-way at any time.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.065 TRAFFIC SIGNS AND MARKINGS.
   A permittee shall provide and properly maintain traffic signs and pavement
markings which the Department of Public Works determines necessary for proper
operation of the driveway. Only those traffic signs and pavement markings
approved by the Department of Public Works may be used within the street right-
of-way. Signs and pavement markings shall conform to the current Michigan
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
BANNER AND PARADE PERMITS
§ 94.080 PERMITTEES.
   A permit for the installation of banners to be placed within or over a
street right-of-way or to conduct a parade may be issued by the Department of
Public Works only to the governing body of a city, county, village or township.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.081 HEARING; REQUEST; TIME; NOTICE; EFFECTIVE DATE OF DRIVEWAY PERMIT
REVOCATION.
   (A)   After a permit application has been denied, before the Department of
Public Works may revoke a driveway permit for failure to comply with any
provision of the permit, or when the Department of Public Works has issued a
notice of violation of this chapter, a person or agency has the right to a
hearing before the Village Council. A person shall file a written request for
hearing with the Department of Public Works within 30 days after mailing or
delivery, whichever occurs first, of the denial of application, notice of
intent to revoke a permit or notice of violation.
   (B)   The Village Council, in the event a timely request for hearing is
received, shall hold a hearing not less than 30 days after the request is
received by the Department of Public Works, unless good cause is shown by
either party. The Department of Public Works shall notify the person or agency
of the hearing date, time and place not less than ten days before the hearing.
   (C)   The Village Council shall give notice of the hearing and shall conduct
the hearing.
   (D)   In the absence of a hearing request, a driveway permit revocation is
effective 30 days after mailing or delivery of a notice of intent to revoke the
permit, whichever occurs first. If, as the result of a hearing held under these
rules, the decision of the Village Council affirms the Department of Public
Works, then the revocation or other action taken or decision made shall be
effective on the date specified in the order issued by the Village Council. A
request for a hearing concerning a violation shall not prevent the village from
initiating or continuing prosecution of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.082 HEARING REPRESENTATION.
   A person may represent himself or herself at a hearing or be represented by
legal counsel. The Department of Public Works may be represented by the Village
Attorney.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.083 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication, on June 24, 2008.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Each day during which such violation shall occur shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 5-12-2008)
CHAPTER 95: TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   The species to be planted
   
95.03   Spacing
   
95.04   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
95.05   Distance from street corners and fire hydrants
   
95.06   Utilities
   
95.07   Public tree care
   
95.08   Pruning, corner clearance
   
95.09   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
95.10   Removal of stumps
   
95.11   Request for tree removal by property owner
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LARGE TREES. Mature height greater than 40 feet.
   MEDIUM TREES. Mature height of 40 feet.
   PRIVATE TREES. Herein defined as trees, shrubs, and bushes on a property
owner’s land.
   SMALL TREES. Mature height of 30 feet.
   STREET TREES. Herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes on land lying between
property lines on either side of all streets, or right-of-ways (33 feet from
center line of street to property line within the village).
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.02 THE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   All species of trees must follow Consumers Energy Forestry Operations
and Michigan Forestry and Park Association. (Right tree-Right Place
principles).
   (B)   Hardiness should be a Zone 4 or higher.
   (C)   Only non-fruit bearing trees should be planted.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.03 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the tree size
classes:
   (A)   Small - 30 feet apart.
   (B)    Medium - 50 feet apart.
   (C)    Large - 75 feet apart.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with tree size. No trees may be planted closer to any
curb or sidewalk than the following; small and medium - 2 feet, large - 4 feet.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any corner, measured from
the nearest intersecting curb lines. No tree shall be planted closer than 15
feet to any fire hydrant.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.06 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than small trees may be planted within ten feet of any
overhead utility wire, or within four feet of any underground utility.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees
and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, and public grounds, as may
be necessary to insure public safety, or to preserve or enhance the symmetry
and beauty of public grounds. The village will be responsible for the cutting,
and cleanup of all village right-of-way tree maintenance. The village may
remove or cause to order to be removed any tree or part thereof, which is in an
unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature, is injurious to any utility
or public improvements. The village reserves the right to select the
replacement of any type of species of tree after the removal of a tree. All
expenses for pruning, removing, purchasing and planting trees will be the
responsibility of the village.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.08 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Any tree overhanging any street or right-of way. The village shall prune the
branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any street
light, obstruct the view of any street intersection, or overgrow any sidewalk
so that there is a clear space of 14 feet above the street and eight feet above
the sidewalk. The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the spread of light from any street
light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device, sign or
reduces vision at street intersections. All expense will be the responsibility
of the village.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.09 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Property owner will remove any tree on private property that is dead or
diseased. Removal shall be done at the owner's expense.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.10 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps in street right-of-way and parks shall be removed below the
surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the
surface of the ground. This removal will be the responsibility of the village.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 95.11 REQUEST FOR TREE REMOVAL BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   If a property owner requests that a tree in the village right-of-way be
removed, the following procedure must take place.
   (A)   If the tree is deemed dead or a safety hazard and must be removed, the
village will pay for the removal of the tree and stump.
   (B)   If the tree is not posing any conditions as stated above, the property
owner is solely responsible for the cost of the tree and stump removal. After
the tree removal, the stump must be removed within 30 days.
   (C)   The property owner must have the approval of the village prior to
removal of said tree.
   (D)   Property owners will not plant any tree or shrub within the village
right-of-way. The planting of new trees in the right-of-way will be the
responsibility of the village.
(Ord. 2016-11-13, passed 11-14-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirement
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Exhibition of identification
   
110.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
110.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.12   Prohibited solicitation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Village Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.04 or
110.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Council. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Village Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Village Council shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
110.05.
   (B)   The order of the Village Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least 1/3-inch in height. For the purpose of
uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.10 above.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 111: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   No marihuana establishments; prohibition of consumption of marihuana
in public places
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Village of Pewamo
Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments and Use in Public Places Ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-8-2019)
§111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided in the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (the “Act”), Initiated Law 1 of 2018,
M.C.L.A. §§333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-8-2019)
§111.03 NO MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS; PROHIBITION OF CONSUMPTION OF MARIHUANA IN
PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   The Village of Pewamo hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments
within the boundaries of the village pursuant to the Act, as may be amended.
Any applicant for a state or local license to establish a marihuana
establishment, as defined by the Act, within the boundaries of the village
shall be deemed to be not in compliance with this chapter or with the Code of
Ordinances amended by this chapter.
   (B)   In conformance with §§4.1(e) and 6.2(b) of the Act, the sale or
consumption of marihuana in any form, including without limitation, smoking,
eating or vaping, and the sale or display of marihuana accessories, as defined
by the Act, is prohibited in any public places, including and without
limitation, parks, schools, hospitals, bars, restaurants, and concert venues or
other public places within the boundaries of the Village of Pewamo.
   (C)   This section does not supersede rights and obligations with respect to
the transfer and consumption of marihuana on private property to the extent
authorized by the person who owns, occupies or operates such property, as
provided in and authorized by the Act, and does not supersede rights and
obligations with respect to the use of marihuana for medical purposes as
provided by any law of the State of Michigan allowing for or regulating
marihuana for medical use.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-8-2019)
§111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects, or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes, allows, or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal infraction, for which the
fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of a
court of competent jurisdiction. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition
to the rights of the village to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate
and proper remedies. Additionally, a person found in violation of this chapter
shall pay all costs and expenses of the village, direct and indirect, which the
village incurs in connection with the enforcement or prosecution of the
municipal civil infraction set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the village may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and obtain any such other relief as
may be provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the village or by such other person(s) designated by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 4-8-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Generally
   
130.01   Consumer fireworks
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.15   Public place defined
   
130.16   Prohibitions
   
130.17   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 130.01 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   This section provides for the regulation of the ignition, discharge and use
of consumer fireworks, as allowed under the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., as amended.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT 256. The Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, Public Act 256 of 2011, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., as amended from time to time.
      ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. Pyrotechnic devices for professional use that are
similar to consumer fireworks in chemical composition and construction but not
intended for consumer use, that meet the weight limits for consumer fireworks
but are not labeled as such, and that are classified as provided in Public Act
256 of 2011 being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce
visible effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling requirements promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and are identified as such in
Public Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq. CONSUMER FIREWORKS do
not include low-impact fireworks.
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or deterioration and are identified
as such in Public Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.
      FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a
flare gun or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS consist of
consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks and special effects.
      LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as provided
in Public Act 256 of 2011 being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.
      MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
      NATIONAL HOLIDAY. The following legal public holidays:
         (a)   New Year’s Day, January 1.
         (b)   Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., the third Monday in
January.
         (c)   Washington’s Birthday, the third Monday in February.
         (d)   Memorial Day, the last Monday in May.
         (e)   Independence Day, July 4.
         (f)   Labor Day, the first Monday in September.
         (g)   Columbus Day, the second Monday in October.
         (h)   Veteran’s Day, November 11.
         (i)   Thanksgiving Day, the fourth Thursday in November.
         (j)   Christmas Day, December 25.
      RETAILER. A person who sells consumer fireworks or low-impact fireworks
for resale to an individual for ultimate use.
      SPECIAL EFFECTS. A combination of chemical elements or chemical compounds
capable of burning independently of the oxygen of the atmosphere and designed
and intended to produce an audible, visual, mechanical or thermal effect as an
integral part of a motion picture, radio, television, theatrical or opera
production or live entertainment.
      WHOLESALE. Any person who sells consumer fireworks or low-impact
fireworks to a retailer or any other person for resale. Wholesaler does not
include a person who sells only display fireworks or special effects.
   (B)   Sale of consumer fireworks. A retailer or other person may not sell
consumer fireworks within the village unless such person has obtained and has
in effect a valid consumer fireworks certificate issued by the Michigan
Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and otherwise complies with, the
requirements of Public Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., and
any rules and regulations promulgated thereto included those related to
storage.
   (C)   Sale of low-impact fireworks. A retailer or other person may not sell
low-impact fireworks unless such person is actively registered, in accordance
with Public Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., with the low-
impact fireworks retail registry maintained by the Michigan Department of
Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.
   (D)   Compliance with applicable ordinances and codes. Unless otherwise
provided in this section, a retailer or wholesaler of fireworks located within
the village must comply with the requirements of the village zoning ordinance
and building codes and regulations.
   (E)   Use of consumer fireworks. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, a person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks. In
accordance with state and federal laws and applicable village ordinances,
except between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., a person may ignite,
discharge, or use consumer fireworks on the day preceding, the day of, or the
day after a national holiday.
   (F)   Firework safety. No person shall endanger the life, health or safety
and/or property of any other person by the sale, use, possession, transport,
display or discharge of any fireworks.
   (G)   Prohibition on or near certain property. No person shall, at any time,
ignite, discharge, use or display, except under the terms and conditions of a
permit issued to this section, any fireworks upon another person’s property or
within 15 feet of another person’s property without such property owner’s
permission. No person shall, at any time, ignite, discharge, use or display,
except under the terms and conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this
section, any fireworks in a public street or right-of-way, a public park,
school property, or any other place of public assembly.
   (H)   Permits. Provided the applicable provisions of Public Act 256 of 2011,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq. are complied with, upon application in
accordance with this section, the village may issue a nontransferable permit
for the use of agricultural or wildlife fireworks, articles pyrotechnic,
display fireworks or special effects manufactured for outdoor pest control or
agricultural purposes or for public or private display. After a permit has been
issued, the sale, possession or transportation of fireworks for the purposes
described in the permit only may be made. A permit may not be issued to a
person under 18 years of age. The issuance of a permit shall be based on the
competency and qualifications of the operator of such fireworks as required by
Public Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq. and the time, place
and safety aspects of the proposed use.
   (I)   Permit application. An application for a permit, on the form
prescribed by the village, shall be made for use of fireworks requiring a
permit at least 15 days in advance of such use.
   (J)   Permit fee. The fee for a fireworks permit as established from time-
to-time by the Village Council shall accompany the application for a permit.
   (K)   Proof of financial responsibility. In order to receive a permit for
articles pyrotechnic or display fireworks use, the applicant shall furnish
proof of financial responsibility by a bond or insurance in the amount,
character, and form deemed necessary by the Village President or his/her
designee to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal injuries arising
out of an act or omission on the part of the applicant or an agent or employee
of the applicant, and to protect the public.
   (L)   Storage of fireworks. The storage of fireworks by retailers and
wholesalers shall at all times be in compliance with the requirements of Public
Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.
   (M)   Possession of consumer fireworks by minor. A minor shall not possess
consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 11-11-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.15 PUBLIC PLACE DEFINED.
   The term PUBLIC PLACE, as used herein, shall mean any street, alley, park,
public building, any place of business or assembly open to or frequented by the
public and any other place which is open to the public view or to which the
public has access.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 130.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any one or more of the
following in a public place:
   (A)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person;
   (B)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral or obscene conduct in any
public place;
   (C)   Discharge any firearm, air rifle, air pistol or bow and arrow in the
village, except when lawfully acting in the defense of persons or property or
the enforcement of law or at a duly established range, the operation of which
has been approved by the Village Council;
   (D)   Fire, discharge, display or possess any fireworks except of the type
and under the conditions permitted by §
130.01 of this chapter;
   (E)   Engage in peeping in the windows of an inhabited place;
   (F)   Bathe in any body of water in a naked state, or with his or her person
so much undressed that there shall be indecent exposure of the body;
   (G)   Engage in fortune telling or pretend to tell fortunes for hire, gain
or reward;
   (H)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her person;
   (I)   Print, engrave, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit or publish,
or have in his or her possession for any such purpose, any obscene, lewd,
lascivious, indecent or immodest book, pamphlet, paper, picture, cast statuary,
image or representation or other article of an indecent or immoral nature, or
any book, paper, print, circular or writing made up principally of pictures or
stories of immodest deeds, lust or crime, or exhibit any such article within
the view of any passerby;
   (J)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter or in any manner deface any
property not his or her own, or any public school building, or any public
building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic
control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter or shade tree belonging
to the village or located in the public places of the village; or mark or post
handbills on or in any manner mar the walls of any public building, or fence,
tree or pole within the village; or destroy, take or meddle with any property
belonging to the village, or remove the same from the building or place where
it may be kept, placed or stored, without proper authority; or disturb, tamper
with, disconnect or damage any village water meter without proper authority;
   (K)   Insult, accost, molest or otherwise annoy, either by word of mouth,
sign or motion, any person in any public place;
   (L)   Engage in any disturbance, flight or quarrel in a public place;
   (M)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
   (N)   Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any street, alley, park or public
building;
   (O)   Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public building or
conduct himself or herself in any public place so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public;
   (P)   Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for
any purpose;
   (Q)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
   (R)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor, or where
any other illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
   (S)   Engage in prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor or any other illegal or immoral business or occupation. Proof of recent
reputation for engaging in prostitution, gambling, illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor, or other illegal or immoral occupation or business shall be prima facie
evidence of being engaged or occupied therein;
   (T)   Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal or immoral act;
   (U)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
gambling is practiced, encouraged or allowed for the purpose of enabling such
person to engage in gambling or in any illegal or immoral act;
   (V)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming table or any gaming device used
for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming table or any gaming
device to be kept, maintained, played or sold on any premises, occupied or
controlled by them;
   (W)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be
a resort of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons; and
   (X)   Summon, as a joke or prank, or otherwise, without any good reason
therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   BLIGHT
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Communications Antennas
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   Effective date
   
150.03   General requirement
   
150.04   Definition
   
150.05   Satellite antenna location
   
150.06   Antenna size
 
   
150.99   Penalty
COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE.
   The village has predicated this subchapter upon its need to protect and
preserve the public health, morals and welfare of the village residents.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 150.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its
adoption.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 150.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
   No satellite television antenna, dish antenna or ground station antenna
apparatus shall be erected, constructed, maintained or operated within the
village limits, except in conformance with the regulations set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA. 
      (1)   An apparatus capable of receiving communications from a transmitter
relay, located in planetary orbit.
      (2)   SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS also are commonly defined as, and it
is the intent of this subchapter to provide for those apparatus commonly known
as satellite earth stations, satellite dish antennas, earth stations, satellite
ground stations and dish antennas, all of which apparatus are used to receive
communications from a satellite transmitter or transmitter relay station.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 150.05 SATELLITE ANTENNA LOCATION.
   (A)   The installation of a satellite earth station in any designated zoning
district within the village shall be in compliance with a setback requirement
of 25 feet of the front property line and at least ten feet of each interior
side property line, regardless of what other setback provisions are provided in
that district.
   (B)   In the event that a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained by
locating the satellite earth station on the rear side or front yard of the
property, such antenna may by placed on the roof of the dwelling structure or
on the roof of the commercial structure, provided a building permit is obtained
prior to such installation and the construction and erection thereof is
otherwise in compliance with the Village Building and Electrical Codes.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 ANTENNA SIZE.
   (A)   A satellite earth station, located in a noncommercial zone, shall not
exceed 20 feet in height, including any platform or structure upon which the
antenna is mounted or attached, and such antenna shall not exceed 15 feet in
diameter.
   (B)   Not more than one satellite earth station shall be allowed in any
noncommercial zone on any parcel of land less than one-half acre in size.
   (C)   All satellite earth stations, and the construction and installation
thereof, shall conform to applicable building codes, electrical codes,
regulations and requirements of the village, as well as the provisions set
forth herein.
   (D)   Except in a commercial or industrial district, any satellite earth
station constructed in a residential or multi-family residential zone shall be
located and designed to reduce visual impact from the surrounding properties at
street level, and to reduce the visual impact from public streets and rights-
of-way, and shall be properly screened by other structures, painting or
decorating and/or plantings and greenery to blend so much as is practicable
with the surrounding lands.
   (E)   Every satellite earth station must be adequately grounded for
protection against a direct strike of lightning.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-2-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Maintenance prohibited
   
151.03   Notice to owners
   
151.04   Appointment of Hearing Officer
   
151.05   Hearing
   
151.06   Action by Village Council
   
151.07   Appeal from decision or order of Village Council
   
151.08   Placarding and vacating; abatement of rent
   
151.09   Demolition or repair by village
   
151.10   Fees for actions
   
151.11   Boarding up of buildings on notice by Building Official
   
151.12   Demolition or correction without prior notice or hearing
   
151.13   Effective date
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, words and terms used herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, unless indicated to the contrary.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  
      (1)   As used in this chapter, the term shall mean any building or
dwelling, dwelling unit or structure which:
         (a)   Is a “dangerous building”, as described and defined in § 139 of
the Housing Law, being Public Act 167 of 1917, as amended; M.C.L.A. § 125.539);
         (b)   Because of damage by fire or wind or because of its dilapidated
condition, is dangerous to the life, safety or general health and welfare of
the occupants or the people of the village;
         (c)   Has light, air or sanitation facilities which are inadequate to
protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who live or may
live therein;
         (d)   Has inadequate means of egress;
         (e)   Has parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall and
injure persons or damage property;
         (f)   Is vacant and open, at door or window, leaving the interior
exposed to the elements or accessible to entrance by trespassers or animals, or
open to casual entry;
         (g)   Has been damaged or vandalized or has deteriorated to such an
extent as to be unfit or unsuitable for occupancy and which has not been made
habitable or safe, to the standards of this chapter and other ordinances of the
village, within 30 days after notice is given by the Building Official to the
last known owner or person having the right to possession thereof;
         (h)   Is hazardous to the safety, health or welfare of the public by
reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or abandonment;
         (i)   Is in such a condition as to constitute a nuisance; or
         (j)   Is boarded up for a period of more than six months.
      (2)   The term shall also include any sign, fence, shed, lean-to, cellar
or other structure which has become so rotted, broken, infirm or dilapidated as
to be likely to fall over or collapse and injure persons or damage property.
   DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The individual designated by resolution of
the Village Council to enforce this chapter.
   HEARING OFFICER.  As used in this chapter, the term OFFICER or HEARING
OFFICER shall mean the Hearing Officer provided for in §
151.04.
   OWNER. The owner, occupant, lessee or any other person with an interest of
record in a dangerous building or the property on which a dangerous building is
located, or any building or property which the village is investigating to
determine whether a violation of this chapter exists.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.02 MAINTENANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner(s) to keep, own, occupy or maintain
any dangerous building within the village.
   (B)   The village finds that any dangerous building located within the
village constitutes a public nuisance; in addition to any other penalty or
liability provided for in this chapter, any person who keeps, owns, occupies or
maintains a dangerous building shall be liable for maintaining a public
nuisance.
   (C)   The village may enter upon property for the purpose of making surveys,
measurements, inspections, examinations, tests, borings, samplings; taking
photographs, videotaping; conducting an environmental inspection; or for any
other purpose reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
If reasonable efforts to enter have been obstructed or denied, the village may
commence a civil action in Circuit Court for an order permitting entry, and
restraining or enjoining further obstruction or denial of access. The complaint
shall state the facts making the entry necessary, the date or dates on which
entry is sought and the duration of the entry. The Court shall permit entry by
the village upon such terms as justice and equity require.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (A)   When the whole or any part of any building is found to be in a
dangerous or unsafe condition (as defined in §
151.01), the Designated Enforcement Official shall issue a notice of the
dangerous or unsafe condition. The notice shall be served on the owner(s) by
either certified mail or personal service.
   (B)   Such notice shall be directed to the owner(s), as well as any other
party with an interest in the building or the property on which the building is
located.
   (C)   The notice shall identify the condition or conditions for which the
building has been found to be dangerous or unsafe, specify that a permit or
permits for the performance of work to correct such violations be obtained from
the County Building Official and the time within which the violation shall be
corrected. If the owner(s) find that the work cannot be completed within the
time specified, or for any other reason, the owner(s) may appeal to the Hearing
Officer, to show cause why the structure should not be ordered to be demolished
or otherwise made safe. If the owner(s) do not complete correction of the
violation or complete demolition within the time specified by the notice, then
the Designated Enforcement Official shall send the owner(s) a second notice,
stating the date on which the owner(s) shall appear before the Hearing Officer
to show cause why the structure should not be ordered to be demolished or
otherwise made safe. This notice shall be served on the owner(s) in the manner
prescribed in division (A) above.
   (D)   The Designated Enforcement Official shall file a copy of the notice
provided for in this section with the Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.04 APPOINTMENT OF HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, a
Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Village Council upon the
recommendation of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer shall be paid on a per diem basis for conducting
hearings or a prorated amount for a partial day.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer may not be a village employee.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.05 HEARING.
   (A)   At the time and place fixed in the notice given pursuant to §
151.03, the Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing referred to in such
notice. Both the village and the owner(s) may be represented by counsel at this
hearing. The Hearing Officer may take the testimony of the Designated
Enforcement Official, the owner(s), occupant, lessee or agent of the property
and any interested party, as well as any other evidence relevant. The use of
pictures, video tapes or other recording devices shall be permitted to present
evidence in the hearing.
   (B)   (1)   The Hearing Officer shall render findings of facts, which shall
include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Evidence of relevant building and building regulations;
         (b)   The condition or state of repair of the building, dwelling or
structure;
         (c)   The estimated cost of repair or demolition of the building,
dwelling or structure;
         (d)   The equalized assessed value of the building, dwelling or
structure; and
         (e)   Recommendation regarding the action that should be taken with
respect to the building.
      (2)   On the basis of the Hearing Officer’s findings, the Hearing Officer
shall render a decision, either closing the proceedings or ordering the
dangerous building to be demolished or otherwise made safe.
   (C)   If it is determined by the Hearing Officer that the building, dwelling
or structure is unfit for human habitation or is a dangerous building and
should be demolished or otherwise made safe, the Hearing Officer shall so
order, fixing a time in the order for the owner(s) to comply therewith.
   (D)   A copy of the findings and order of the Hearing Officer shall be
served on the owner(s), in the manner prescribed in §
151.03(A).
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
 
§ 151.06 ACTION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   If, pursuant to §
151.05, the Hearing Officer issues an order to demolish or otherwise make safe
a dangerous building, and the owner(s) neglects or refuses to comply with such
order, or if the owner(s) failed to appear at the hearing, the Hearing Officer
shall file a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Village
Council and request that the village take the necessary action to demolish or
otherwise make safe the dangerous building.
   (B)   The Village Council shall fix a date for hearing, reviewing the
findings and order of the officer and shall give notice to the owner(s), in the
manner prescribed in §
151.03. Village Council shall either approve, disapprove or modify the order of
the officer.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.07 APPEAL FROM DECISION OR ORDER OF VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Any owner(s) aggrieved by a final decision or order of the Village Council
under §
151.06 may appeal the decision or order to the Circuit Court by filing a
petition for an order of superintending control within 21 days from the date of
decision.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.08 PLACARDING AND VACATING; ABATEMENT OF RENT.
   (A)   If an order to demolish a dangerous building is affirmed by the
Village Council and no appeal is taken within the time prescribed by §
151.07, or if an appeal is taken and the order is affirmed by the court, and
the owner(s) fail to comply with the order by demolishing the dangerous
building or making it safe, the Designated Enforcement Official shall post, in
a conspicuous place or places on the Dangerous Building, a placard bearing the
following words: “CONDEMNED AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY”. No person shall
deface or remove such placard, except the Designated Enforcement Official, as
provided for in this section.
   (B)   A dangerous building which has been placarded under this section shall
be vacated within a reasonable time, as required by the Designated Enforcement
Official. No owner or operator shall let to any person for human occupancy and
no person shall occupy nor permit anyone to occupy any such dangerous building
which has been placarded by the Building Official after the date on which the
Designated Enforcement Official has required such building to be vacated, until
written approval is secured from, and such placard is removed by, the
Designated Enforcement Official. The Designated Enforcement Official shall
remove such placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation
and placarding action was based have been eliminated.
   (C)   If, pursuant to the provisions of this section, a dangerous building
has been ordered vacated by the Designated Enforcement Official and there is no
compliance with the order in the time specified, the Designated Enforcement
Official may petition the appropriate court to obtain compliance, and the court
may order the occupants to vacate or demolish the dangerous building forthwith.
   (D)   If any dangerous building is occupied after it has been ordered
vacated under this section, no rent shall be recoverable for the period of
occupancy.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.09 DEMOLITION OR REPAIR BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   If no appeal is filed within the time prescribed by §
151.07, or if a final order to demolish a dangerous building or make it safe is
affirmed by the court, and such order is not fully obeyed, the village may
demolish such dangerous building or take whatever steps necessary to make it
safe. The cost of such work shall constitute both a personal liability of the
owner(s) and be a lien against the real property on which the dangerous
building is located and shall be reported to the assessing officer of the
village who shall assess the cost against the property on which the dangerous
building is or was located.
   (B)   The owner(s) shall be notified of the amount of the cost referred to
in division (A) above by first class mail at the address shown on the record.
   (C)   If the amount in division (A) above is not paid within 30 days after
mailing by the Assessor of the notice of the amount thereof, the Assessor shall
add the same to the next tax roll of the village; and the same shall be
collected in the same manner in all respects as provided by law for the
collection of taxes.
   (D)   As an additional method of recovering the amount referred to in
division (A) above, the amount may be recovered by lawsuit against the persons
referred to in §
151.03(B).
   (E)   Interest shall accrue as provided for taxes and judgments by law.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.10 FEES FOR ACTIONS.
   (A)   The Village Council may, by resolution, establish reasonable fees for
covering the costs of actions taken with regard to this chapter.
   (B)   All costs incurred in enforcement of this chapter may be assessed
against the owner(s) and be collected either personally from the owner(s) or
shall be a lien against the real property and shall be reported to the
Assessing Officer of the village who shall assess the cost against the property
on which the building or dwelling is or was located.
   (C)   The owner(s) or any party in interest in whose name the property
appears upon the last local tax assessment record shall be notified of the
amount of the costs referred to in division (B) above by first class mail at
the address shown on the record. If such person(s) fail to pay the same within
30 days after mailing by the Assessor of the notice of the amount thereof, the
Assessor shall add the same to the next tax roll of the village, and the same
shall be collected in the same manner in all respects as provided by law for
collection of taxes and/or may be collected by suit at law. Interest shall
accrue as provided for taxes and judgments by law.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.11 BOARDING UP OF BUILDINGS ON NOTICE BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   Whenever a building is a dangerous building as defined under §
151.01 for a period of five days after notice of said condition has been issued
in accordance with §
151.03, the village may board up the building or take such other action as may
be feasible and necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
village. The costs and their recovery shall be governed by §
151.10, except that the cost to be recovered for boarding up the building shall
be in the actual amount expended for the particular work done.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.12 DEMOLITION OR CORRECTION WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE OR HEARING.
   If a building is so dangerous that it poses an immediate threat to health or
safety, the building may be demolished or otherwise made safe without prior
notice or hearing. Such danger includes but is not limited to conditions which
pose the immediate threat of collapse of the building. Sections
151.09 and
151.10 shall apply to recoupment of village costs, except that the notice
requirements of §§
151.03 and
151.05 shall not apply.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 151.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days after its adoption.
(Ord. 29, passed 5-18-1998)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Effective date
Procedure for the Preparation and Filing of Plats
   
152.15   Application
   
152.16   Preliminary plat
   
152.17   Tentative approval of preliminary plat
   
152.18   Record of final plat
   
152.19   Hearing
   
152.20   Approval
Platting Regulations and Requirements
   
152.35   Streets
   
152.36   Easements
   
152.37   Monuments
   
152.38   Blocks
   
152.39   Lots
   
152.40   Open spaces
   
152.41   Utilities and improvements
Enforcement
   
152.55   Submission to and approval by Village Council required
   
152.56   Recording of plat
   
152.57   Metes and bounds platting
   
152.58   Sales contrary to requirements
   
152.59   Public water and sewer service
   
152.60   Filing fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than 160 square feet, exclusive of drives
or aisles giving access thereto accessible from streets or alleys, and to be
usable for the storage or parking of self-propelled passenger automobiles.
   SUBDIVIDE.  The word shall have the same meaning as defined in Land Division
Act, Public Act 28 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293 and
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall become effective 20 days after the
passage thereof.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
PROCEDURE FOR THE PREPARATION AND FILING OF PLATS
§ 152.15 APPLICATION.
   An application in writing shall be submitted to the Village Council by the
owner or his or her authorized representative for approval of a preliminary
plat of any proposed subdivision lying in the limits of the village.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.16 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Three copies of the preliminary plat at a scale of not more than 200 feet to
the inch showing the following shall be submitted with the application:
   (A)   Title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded,
description of land to be platted, name and address of owner and technical
author of the plan;
   (B)   Location of existing property lines, streets, buildings, watercourses,
railroads, utilities and other physical features;
   (C)   The location of the adjoining streets, utilities, buildings and other
physical features which relate to the development of the subdivision;
   (D)   The location, name and width of proposed streets, alleys, easements
and public utilities, parks, plantings, lots and building lines on the property
to be subdivided;
   (E)   Any engineering data necessary relative to the topography, street
cross-section, sewer elevations, water elevations and the like;
   (F)   Proposed use of property;
   (G)   Areas proposed to be dedicated for public purposes;
   (H)   Proposed grade elevations at street intersections or breaks of grade;
and
   (I)   Date, north point and graphic scale.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.17 TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Preliminary plats shall be subject to the tentative approval of the
Village Council who shall take into consideration the village’s requirements
and the most appropriate use of the land. Particular attention will be given to
the standards of design, the justification for the development of public
improvements and the subdivision conformity to the existing street plan. The
width, location and arrangements of streets, the dimensions of the lots, the
location of utilities and other features will be studied.
   (B)   If the preliminary plat is not approved, a list of the changes
necessary to render the plat acceptable will be made known to the subdivider.
   (C)   The approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute an acceptance
of the subdivision. Five true copies of the final or record subdivision plat
shall be submitted to the Village Council within one year after approval of the
preliminary plat; otherwise the approval of the preliminary plat will become
null and void unless an extension of time is applied for and the application is
granted by the Village Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.18 RECORD OF FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall be prepared and presented in accordance with the
provisions of Land Division Act, Public Act 28 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293 as amended, and in addition, shall show the following.
   (A)   Any private restrictions shall be shown on the plat or reference to
them be made thereon; and plats shall contain proper acknowledgments of owner
and mortgagees, accepting said platting restrictions.
   (B)   In addition to the above, the Village Council will require a statement
from each subdivider indicating:
      (1)   Ownership of the property proposed to be subdivided as evidenced by
a legal title opinion stating that the attorney has examined the abstract of
title to the lands described in the proposed plat and find no outstanding
interest, including mineral rights, other than the parties joining in the
dedication thereof; or the proprietor may, at his or her option, provide a
policy of title insurance;
      (2)   The improvements and utilities to be installed by the subdivider;
      (3)   The restrictions to be imposed upon the property after subdivision;
      (4)   The streets, alley, parks and easements as agreed upon with the
Village Council with a recital that same are dedicated to the use of the
public;
      (5)   The total area in acres of the tract to be subdivided;
      (6)   The net area in lots;
      (7)   The total lot frontage in feet, classified as to residential
frontage, business frontage and industrial frontage;
      (8)   The area in streets; and
      (9)   The area in parks.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.19 HEARING.
   Any plat submitted to the Village Council shall contain the name and address
of a person to whom notice of a hearing shall be sent and no plat shall be
acted on by the Village Council without affording a hearing thereon. Notice
shall be sent to said person at the said address by registered mail of the time
and place of such hearing not less than five days before the date fixed
therefor. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of land immediately
adjoining the platted land, as their names and addresses appear upon the latest
village or township tax record.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.20 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Village Council shall examine the plat for compliance with the
preliminary plat and required changes thereof and shall approve the plat within
60 days after submission thereof to it, provided that the applicant for the
Village Council’s approval may waive this requirement and consent to an
extension to such period.
   (B)   Approval of the Village Council shall be certified on the plat by the
Village Clerk pursuant to authorization by the Village Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
PLATTING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.35 STREETS.
   (A)   Relation to adjoining street system.  
      (1)   The arrangement of streets in a new subdivision shall make
provision for the continuation of principal existing streets in adjoining or
adjacent subdivisions, insofar as they may be necessary for public
requirements. In general, such streets shall be of a width as great as that of
the street so continued or projected. The centerline of such streets shall
continue with the centerline of existing streets.
      (2)   In general, the streets shall extend to the boundary of the
subdivision to provide the proper access to adjoining property and provide for
proper connection with the highway system of the part submitted.
   (B)   Access to property. Each lot within a subdivision shall be provided
with a satisfactory means of access to a public street. There shall be no
reserve strips controlling access to a street, except where the control of such
strips is definitely placed with the Village Council.
   (C)   Interference with streets. The platting shall not be such as to stop
the opening of major streets and the extension of adjacent minor streets, which
in the judgment of the Village Council would ultimately be opened and extended.
   (D)   Street intersections. Streets shall be required to intersect each
other at as nearly right angles as practicable. Streets converging at one point
shall be reduced to the least practicable number.
   (E)   Streets in relation to railroads.  
      (1)   Whenever a subdivision is to be laid out adjacent to a railroad
right-of-way, a street shall be placed parallel to the railroad.
      (2)   The intersection of the centerline of the parallel street with that
of any street which crosses the railroad shall not be less than 300 feet from
the line of the railroad right-of-way. Variances may be allowed in the judgment
of the Village Council for existing streets and extensions thereof, jogs and
other individual factors.
   (F)   Dedication to half streets, The dedication of half-streets will be
permitted where a subdivision adjoins undeveloped property and wherever, on an
adjoining plat, the other half must be dedicated to the proposed plat to make
the street or alley complete.
   (G)   Dead-end streets. Dead-end streets will not be approved if they exceed
400 feet in length. Every permanently dead-end street shall be of such width at
the closed end as will permit a turning radius of not less than 45 feet.
   (H)   Building lines and setback lines. Where practical, building setback
lines shall be designated as proposed by the subdivider.
   (I)   Street grades.  Profiles may be required of all streets at the
discretion of the Village Council. The minimum grade allowed shall be 0.5%.
   (J)   Curb corners. Where there are to be curb corners, they shall be
rounded with a radius of not less than 15 feet. Intersections where the
interior angle is less than 60 degrees shall have the curb corners rounded with
at least a 30-foot radius, and when the interior angle is less than 135
degrees, it is recommended that the corner be rounded with a minimum radius of
ten feet.
   (K)   Access to street across ditches. Subdivider shall provide access to
all proposed streets across watercourses or ditches.
   (L)   Street subdivision names. All proposed streets obviously in alignment
with another already existing and named, must bear the same name. New street
names shall not duplicate existing street names and all names must be approved
by the Village Council.
   (M)   Subdivision names.  Duplication of proposed subdivision names with the
names of those already existing will not be permitted.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.36 EASEMENTS.
   Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than six feet in width
shall be provided on each side of rear lot lines and on side lines where
necessary for utilities and shall be noted on the record plat. These easements
should be direct and continuous from block to block. Easements of greater width
may be required along natural watercourses and channels, such easements to
conform substantially with the lines of such natural waterways.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.37 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall conform to and shall be placed as required of Land Division
Act, Public Act 28 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as
amended.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.38 BLOCKS.
   Residential blocks shall not be less than 200 feet wide, they shall not be
less than 660 feet or more than 1,200 feet long.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.39 LOTS.
   (A)   No lot classified as residential shall be platted that is less than 60
feet in width and less than 6,000 square feet in area.
   (B)   No lot classified as business, commercial or industrial shall be
platted that is less than 100 feet in width and less than 10,000 square feet in
area.
   (C)   (1)   Lot lines. All side lot lines should be at right angles to
straight street lines, or radial to curved street lines, unless a variation
from this rule will give a better street and lot plan.
      (2)   Lots with double frontage. Lots with double frontage shall be
avoided, but if provided, the corner lots must have sufficient depth so that a
reasonable front yard may be provided on both street frontages to protect
similar frontages on adjacent lots in each direction.
      (3)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient to
permit the maintenance of building lines on both front and side.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.40 OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Due consideration shall be given by the subdivider and the Village
Council to the dedication or reservation of suitable sites for future schools,
parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   No property shall be subdivided for residential use if such is
considered unsuitable for building purposes by the Village Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.41 UTILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The developer shall provide the following improvements before approval
of a plat or shall provide the Village Council with a certified check
sufficient to cover full faith and compliance or shall provide a performance
bond in an amount necessary to ensure compliance with this section.
   (B)   Sewer and water facilities shall be installed to serve each building
before occupancy and street construction, and sidewalks shall be completed
within one year after occupancy.
      (1)   Water. The minimum size water main shall be eight inches in
diameter and all water mains, wherever practical in the judgment of the Village
Council, must be looped to that water is available from two sources to any
point. Fire hydrants, gate valves and appurtenances shall be installed in
accordance with accepted engineering practices.
      (2)   Sewer. Adequate sanitary sewer facilities shall be provided to
service the subdivision.
      (3)   Streets. Streets shall be not less than 26 feet in width and street
right-of-way shall not be less than 66 feet in width with adequate storm
drainage, and a six-inch gravel compacted base shall be installed by the
subdivider.
      (4)   Sidewalks.  Concrete sidewalks not less than four feet in width and
four inches in thickness shall be installed by the subdivider.
      (5)   Driveways. Driveways shall be of concrete not less than six inches
thickness.
      (6)   Design of improvements. The above improvements shall be designed by
a registered professional engineer prior to final plat approval. Installation
of improvements may be to specifications of the Village Council and under
inspection by a person designated by the Village Council. If in any instance
the Village Council should decide that it is necessary to install a larger
water main, sewer or greater width of street, the Village Council will bear a
pro-rata share of the cost of the particular improvement.
   (C)   In some cases the proposed area to be platted will not be served at
its borders by water mains or adequate sewers. The Village Council may require
petition for the creation of an assessment district to furnish such sewer and
water or may require the developer to bear the full cost of extensions to the
area to be platted. The Village Council may accept petitions for an assessment
district in lieu of a certified check or performance bond for installation of
improvements.
   (D)   The Village Council shall provide from time to time by resolution of
the percentage of cost it will pay, if any, of sidewalks, sewer and water in
new subdivisions.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.55 SUBMISSION TO AND APPROVAL BY VILLAGE COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   No plat shall be transmitted to any county or state approving authority for
official action as required by the state platting procedure until each plat
shall have, in the first instance, been approved by the Village Council, in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter and Land Division Act, Public
Act 28 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.56 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No person shall sell or convey any lot in any plat by reference thereto
until such plat has been duly recorded in the office of the County Register of
Deeds.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.57 METES AND BOUNDS PLATTING.
   The description of any lot or parcel in a plat of a subdivision, filed
hereafter, by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer, is a violation of
these regulations.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.58 SALES CONTRARY TO REQUIREMENTS.
   Any sale of an option or contract to sell land contrary to the provisions of
these regulations, shall be voidable as provided in the Land Division Act,
Public Act 28 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.59 PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   Public water and sewer service shall not be provided for any dwelling or
other structure located on a lot or plot subdivided or sold in violation of
these regulations, excepting that such service may be installed in any
structure when deemed necessary by the Village Health Officer for the
protection of the public health.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.60 FILING FEES.
   The subdivider shall pay a filing fee to the Village Treasurer at the time a
preliminary plat is filed with the Village Council; it shall not exceed $60 and
shall provide for the expense of inspection of lands and meetings of the
Village Council relative to the plat.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-2-1993)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished as a municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Scope
   
153.004   Definitions
Administration
   
153.015   Administration
   
153.016   Building permits
   
153.017   Certificate of occupancy
Board of Appeals
   
153.030   Membership and appointment
   
153.031   Power of the Board of Appeals
   
153.032   Vote required for decisions of the Board of Appeals
   
153.033   Meetings
   
153.034   Records of the Board of Appeals
   
153.035   Board of Appeals’ hearings, notice
   
153.036   Decisions of the Board of Appeals
   
153.037   Appeals, by whom taken
   
153.038   Rules of procedure
   
153.039   Counsel
   
153.040   Appeals
   
153.041   Fees
   
153.042   Specific duties and powers
   
153.043   Review
   
153.044   Interpretation
   
153.045   Variances
   
153.046   Special exceptions
   
153.047   Bond for compliance/performance
Zoning Districts
   
153.060   Establishment of districts
   
153.061   Zoning districts map
   
153.062   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.063   R-1 Neighborhood Conservation District
   
153.064   R-2 Low Density Residential District
   
153.065   R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
   
153.066   C-1 Central Business District
   
153.067   C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
153.068   I-1 Light Industrial District
   
153.069   A-1 Agricultural/Rural Estate District
General Regulations
   
153.080   General provisions for all zones
   
153.081   General provisions for residential districts
   
153.082   Uses not permitted in any district
   
153.083   Agriculture odor control
   
153.084   Nonconformities
   
153.085   Site plan review and approval
   
153.086   Special use permits
   
153.087   Mobile homes on private lots outside mobile home parks
   
153.088   Accessory buildings and structures; residential districts or users
Supplemental Regulations for Specific Uses
   
153.100   Supplemental regulations for specific uses
   
153.101   Mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions
   
153.102   Design standards and conditions for certain uses
   
153.103   Location of adult businesses
   
153.104   Wellhead Protection Area (WHPA)
Renewable Energy, Wind and Solar Power Systems
   
153.110   Intent and purpose
   
153.111   Definitions
   
153.112   Wind and solar renewable energy systems
   
153.113   Wind energy conversion systems
   
153.114   Solar energy systems (small residential)
   
153.115   Large solar energy system (solar farm)
Amendments and Conflicts
   
153.125   Amendments
   
153.126   Public hearings; notices
   
153.127   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
Enforcement; Miscellaneous
   
153.130   Violations
   
153.131   Conflicting regulations
   
153.132   Interpretation of chapter
   
153.133   Effective date
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
Pewamo” or “this chapter”.
(Ord., § 1.1, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote safety, health, morals,
convenience and general welfare; to encourage the use of lands and natural
resources within the village in accordance with their character, adaptability
and suitability for particular purposes; to enhance social and economic
stability; to prevent excessive concentration population; to reduce hazards and
to lessen congestion on the public streets and highways; to facilitate the
adequate provision of streets and highways, sewage and drainage, water supply
and distribution, educational and recreational facilities and the expenditure
of funds for public facilities and services by establishing herein standards
for physical development in accordance with the objectives and policies
contained herein; and to provide for the enforcement of such standards.
(Ord., § 1.2, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.003 SCOPE.
   Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions than those imposed by other
laws or ordinances or by private restrictions placed upon property by covenant,
deed or other private agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord., § 1.3, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of a building, lot or portion thereof, which is
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the main
building or lot.
   ALTERATION. Any modification, addition or change in construction or type of
occupancy; any change or rearrangement in the structural parts of a building;
any enlargement of a building, whether by extending a side or increasing in
height; or the moving from one location to another.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms, including bath and kitchen facilities,
in a two-family or multiple dwelling, intended or designed for use as a
residence by a single family.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Revised construction plans in accordance with all approved
field changes.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building below the first floor joists, at least
half of whose clear ceiling height is above the level of the adjacent ground.
   BERM. A lineal earthen mound of variable height and width, used as visual
relief or transitional area between different land uses.
   BREEZEWAY. Any structure connecting the principal dwelling unit with a
freestanding accessory building.
   BUFFER. A strip or parcel of land, privately restricted or publicly
dedicated as open space located between incompatible uses for the purpose of
protecting and enhancing the residential environment. Also referred to as a
GREENBELT.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The area on a lot or parcel exclusive of minimum yard
requirements on which structures could be placed, provided maximum lot coverage
requirements are not exceeded.
   BUILDING. A structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof
supported by columns or walls.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building subordinate to and located on the same lot
with a main building, the use of which is clearly incidental to that of the
main building or to the use of the land, and which may or may not be attached
to the main structure.
   BUILDING AREA. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings, exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE. The line that faces the building nearest the front
line of the lot, which includes enclosed porches but not steps.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF.  The vertical distance measured from the average
finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof
for flat roofs; to the deck line for mansard roofs; and the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. See “Zoning Administrator or Official”.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. See “Zoning Administrator or Official”.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL (OR MAIN). A building in which is conducted the
principal or main use of the lot on which it is located.
   CAR WASH, AUTOMATIC. An establishment providing facilities for the
mechanical washing or waxing of automobiles. Such service to be provided
without labor to the customer and, should it offer gasoline for sale, all
requirements pertaining to gasoline service stations must be met.
   CELLAR. A story having more than half of its height below the average
finished level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall not be counted as a
story for purposes of height measurement. Also, a CELLAR shall not be used as a
separate business or for habitation.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship, maintained and controlled by
a religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLINIC. A building where human patients, who are not lodged overnight, are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists or
similar professions.
   CLUB. An organization catering exclusively to members and their guests, or
premises and buildings for recreational, artistic, political or social
purposes, which are not conducted primarily for gain and which do not provide
merchandise, vending or commercial activities except as required incidentally
for the membership and purpose of the CLUB.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. An adopted statement of policy by the
Village Planning Commission for the physical pattern of future development
within the village. Said Plan may consist of maps, data, charts and other
descriptive materials.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. Includes rest and nursing homes, convalescent homes and
boarding homes for the aged; established to render nursing care for chronic or
convalescent patients, but excludes facilities for care of active or violent
patients, epileptics, alcoholics, senile psychotics or drug addicts.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the plat or lot covered by the building area.
   DEDICATION. The intentional appropriation of land by the owner to public
use.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units situated on or to be developed on a
net acre of land.
   DEVELOPER. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination of any of them which may hold any recorded or unrecorded ownership
interest in land. The proprietor is also commonly referred to as the owner.
   DISTRICT. An area of land for which there are uniform regulations governing
the use of buildings and premises, density of development, yard requirements
and height limitations.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling
units; an apartment house.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY (SINGLE-FAMILY). A detached building containing not
more than one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A building containing not more than two separate
dwelling units; a duplex.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, designed for residential
occupancy by not more than one family and having cooking facilities.
   ERECTED. The building, construction, alteration, reconstruction, moving upon
or any physical activity upon a premises or lot.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance,
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, towers, fire alarm boxes,
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection with but not including buildings reasonably necessary
for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities, departments or
commissions or for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group not to exceed two persons not related by blood or
marriage, occupying premises and living as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit
with single kitchen facilities, and distinguished from a group occupying a
boarding house, lodging house, club, fraternity, hotel or similar dwelling for
group use.
   FARM. Any parcel of land, containing at least 20 acres, which is used for
gain in the raising of agricultural products, livestock, poultry and dairy
products. Includes necessary FARM structures within prescribed property
boundaries and the storage of equipment used. Excludes the raising of fur-
bearing animals, riding academies, livery or boarding stables and dog kennels.
   FENCE. An accessory structure intended for use as a barrier to property
ingress or egress, a screen from objectionable vista, noise and/or for
decorative use.
   FLOOR AREA. The total enclosed FLOOR AREA of a structure used for
residential purposes, excluding the FLOOR AREA of uninhabitable basements,
cellars, garages, accessory buildings, attics, breezeways and porches. For
manufacturing, business or commercial activities which, in the case of the
latter, includes customer facilities, showcase facilities and sales facilities.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of all gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building or buildings, measured from the outside dimensions of the
foundation. Unenclosed porches, courtyards or patios, whether covered or
uncovered shall not be considered as a part of the GROSS FLOOR AREA unless used
for commercial purposes such as nursery beds or sales of outdoor equipment.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. For purposes of computing parking requirements, the area
to be used for the sale of merchandise or services, or to serve patrons,
clients or customers. Such floor area which is used or intended to be used
principally for the storage or processing of merchandise, hallways, stairways
and elevator shafts, or for utilities or sanitary facilities, shall be excluded
from this computation of USABLE FLOOR AREA. Measurements of USABLE FLOOR AREA
shall be the sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors of the building,
measured from the interior faces of the exterior walls.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract of
land abutting a public street, road or highway.
   GARAGE, PARKING. A structure or series of structures for the temporary
storage or parking of motor vehicles, having no public shop or service
connected therewith.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of a main building
designed or used primarily for the storage of motor vehicles, boats, house
trailers and similar vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building
to which it is accessory.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used for the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale at retail of any motor fuels, oils or lubricants.
Also permitted are the sales and service of minor motor vehicle repairs such as
tires, batteries, plugs, points, minor motor tune-ups, generators, starters,
radiator and other hoses, fan belts and the replacement of small parts which
are carried as stock for sale.
   GROSS ACRES (as used in density computations). The total land area under the
control of a developer or property owner.
   GROUP HOUSING. A residential development involving the ultimate construction
of two or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings or
combination of multiple and two-family, or one-family dwellings on a lot,
parcel or tract of land, or on a combination of lots under one ownership.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation customarily engaged in by residents in their
own dwelling and incidental to the principal use, including instruction in
crafts and fine arts.
   HOSPITAL. Any institution, including a sanitarium, which maintains and
operates facilities for overnight care and treatment of two or more non-related
persons as patients suffering mental or physical ailments, but not including
any dispensary or first aid treatment facilities maintained by a commercial or
industrial plant, educational institution, convent or a convalescent home, as
previously defined.
   HOSPITAL, ANIMAL. A profit or nonprofit institution which maintains and
operates facilities for the care and treatment of animals of any size.
   HOTEL. A building occupied or designed for more or less temporary occupancy
by individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are more
than ten sleeping rooms which may be served only by a general kitchen and
dining facility located within the building.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any structure incident to servicing or furnishing facilities
for a subdivision such as grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, driveway
approaches, sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, culverts, utilities, bridges, slips, waterways, lakes, bays,
canals and other appropriate items, with appurtenant construction.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned industrial area designed specifically for
industrial use providing screened buffers, wider streets and turning movement
and safety lane roadway improvements, where necessary.
   JUNK. Miscellaneous dry solid waste material resulting from housekeeping,
mercantile and manufacturing enterprises and offices, including but not limited
to scrap metals, rubber and paper, abandoned, wrecked, unlicensed and
inoperable automobiles and motor vehicles, rags, bottles, cans and comparable
items.
   JUNK YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including
automobile wrecking yards, house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, but not including the purchase or storage of used clothing, used
furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition, used or
salvaged materials as of manufacturing operations, but not to be used as a
dump.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises used for the sale, boarding or breeding of dogs,
cats and/or other household pets over the age of six months. Also the keeping
of live dogs, cats or other household pets of the mammal group over the age of
six months.
   LIGHTING, SOURCE OF. The source of light shall refer to the light bulb or
filament which is exposed or visible through clear materials. Exposed mercury
vapor lamps or neon lamps shall be considered a direct SOURCE OF LIGHT.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals such as horses, cattle, sheep, goats and swine.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or group
of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading
or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, or by any other single activity permitted herein, together with such
open spaces as are required under this chapter and having its principal
frontage upon a street. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, which
is described and fixed in a recorded plat.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines. Where the
front lot line is the centerline of a street or lies in part or in whole in the
street area, the LOT AREA shall not include that part of the lot in use or to
be used as the street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of two or more streets, or where
the interior angle formed by the extensions of the street lines in the
directions which they take at their intersections with lot lines, other than
street lines, forms an angle of 135 degrees or less. In the event that any
street line is a curve at its point of intersection with a lot line other than
a street line, the tangent to the curve at that point shall be considered the
direction of the street line. Any portion of a CORNER LOT whose nearest
frontage is more than 100 feet from the point of intersection of the two street
lines or of the two tangents shall be subject to the regulations applicable to
either a through lot or an interior lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of a lot covered by the building area.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line.
   LOT, FRONT OF. The side or sides of an interior or through lot which abuts a
street. In a corner lot, the side or sides abutting either street may be
considered as the front lot line, provided that the side selected as the front
has the required minimum lot frontage and setback areas. A lot front shall also
be evidenced by the street frontage that a structure is addressed to.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The portion of a lot extending along a street line. In odd-
shaped or triangular-shaped lots the length of the FRONTAGE may be reduced to
not less than one-half of any minimum frontage herein required, and the actual
length of the street line shall not be less than 50 feet.
   LOT LINE. The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Registrar of Deeds in this county, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the deed to which has been recorded in the
office of the Registrar of Deeds in the county.
   LOT, OUT. When included within the boundary of a recorded plat, a lot set
aside for purposes other than a building site, park or other land dedicated to
public use or reserved to private use.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The average horizontal width measured at right angles to the
lot depth.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit prefabricated in part or total and
transported to the building site for assembly as a permanent or temporary
dwelling.
   MARKET VALUE. The price that the structure can be expected to bring when
sold in a given market.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling or any other use when
connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems in the structure which has a title. The
term MOBILE HOME shall not include pickup campers, travel trailers, converted
buses or tent trailers. A double-wide, if built on a chassis to be towed, shall
be considered a MOBILE HOME. If a double-wide is built on a permanent
foundation and is without its own chassis to be towed, it shall be considered a
conventional dwelling.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of a mobile home site designed for the placement
of a mobile home, appurtenant structures or additions, including expandable
rooms, enclosed patios, garages or structural additions.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person
where three or more mobile homes are located on a continual, non-recreational
basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose, regardless of
whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building, structure,
enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended for use incidental to
the occupancy of a mobile home and which is not intended for use as a temporary
trailer park.
   MODULAR HOUSING UNIT. A unit constructed solely within a factory in various
sized modules which are then transported by truck, or other removable
undercarriage, to the site where they are assembled on permanent foundations,
to form single-family dwellings which are either attached (in rows or
clusters), stacked or detached.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, not more than two stories in
height, detached or in connected units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling
units for transient occupancy. Includes auto courts, tourist courts, motor
hotels and similar appellations designed as individual rooms under common
ownership.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled, licensed vehicle prefabricated on its own
chassis, intended for recreation activities and temporary occupancy.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, but not operated upon
rails and as defined in Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, DISMANTLED. A motor vehicle from which some part or parts,
which are ordinarily a component thereof, have been removed or are missing and
which render the vehicle incapable of being operated or propelled under its own
power, and which condition exists and continues for a period of 24 consecutive
hours.
   NET ACREAGE (as used in density computation). Total gross acreage less
acreage for publicly dedicated street right-of-way and public utility and storm
drain easements not located in street rights-of- way.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. Any lawful building or other structure which does
not comply with the applicable bulk regulations for the district, either at the
effective date of this chapter or as a result of a subsequent amendment
thereto.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any lawful use of a building or land existing at the time
of enactment of this chapter which does not conform to the regulations of the
district or zone in which it is located.
   NUISANCE. An offensive, annoying, unpleasant or obnoxious thing or practice,
a cause or source of annoyance, especially a continuing or repeating invasion
of any physical characteristics of activity or use across a property line which
can be perceived by or affects a human being; or the generation of an excessive
or concentrated movement of people or things such as noise, dust, smoke, odor,
glare, fumes, flashes, vibration, shock waves, heat, electric or atomic
radiation, objectionable effluent, noise of a congregation of people,
particularly at night, passing traffic, invasion of street frontage by traffic
generated from an adjacent land use which lacks sufficient parking and
circulation facilities.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. A land surface or facility providing vehicular
parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering so as to
provide access for entrance and exit for the parking of three or more
automobiles or trucks. The term PARKING AREA shall include portions of access
drives which give direct access to parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE.  A land area of not less than ten by 18 feet, exclusive of
driveways and aisles, and adjacent to driveways and aisles, and so prepared as
to be usable for the parking of a motor vehicle and so located as to be readily
accessible to a public street or alley.
   PET, HOUSEHOLD. Includes dogs, cats, canaries, parakeets and other kindred
animals and fish usually and ordinarily kept as household pets. As used herein,
it shall not be construed to include horses, mules, donkeys, cows, bulls,
sheep, goats, rabbits, fowl and other domesticated animals.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (P.U.D.). A land area which has both individual
building sites and common property, such as a park, and which is designed and
developed under one owner or organized group as a separate neighborhood or
community unit.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Rooms or buildings used for office purposes by members
of any recognized profession, including doctors, dentists, lawyers,
accountants, engineers, architects and the like, but not including medical or
dental clinics.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Land dedicated or reserved for use by the general public.
It includes parks, parkways, recreation areas, school sites, community or
public building sites, streets and highways and public parking spaces.
   PUBLIC PARK. Any park, playground, beach, outdoor swimming pool or parkway
within the jurisdiction and control of a governmental agency authorized by
state statutes to own and maintain parks.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. A central or community sanitary sewage and collection
system including pipes, conduits, manholes, pumping stations, sewage and
wastewater treatment works, division and regulatory devices and outfall
structures, collectively or singularly, actually used or intended for use by
the general public or a segment thereof, for the purpose of collecting,
conveying, transporting, treating or otherwise handling sanitary sewage or
industrial liquid wastes of such a nature as to be capable of adversely
affecting the public health, operated and maintained by the general public.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. All persons, firms, corporations, copartnerships or
municipal or other public authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam,
telephone, telegraph, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, transportation or other
services of a similar nature.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. A central or community facility which provides potable
water to users. This facility includes the necessary wells, pipes, pumps,
treatment works, monitoring gauges and administrative offices necessary to
protect the public health. This facility is operated and maintained by the
general public.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. Small, mobile units principally designed for
recreational pastime, such as motor homes, camper trailers, pickup campers,
tent trailers and similar camping type vehicles or trailers.
   REFUSE. Any matter deemed disposable or of no monetary value, including but
not limited to paper, rags, glass, metal and wood.
   REFUSE STORAGE AREAS. Any exterior space designated by a site plan for
containers, structures or other receptacle intended for temporary storage of
solid waste materials.
   RESTAURANT. A building where food is prepared and consumed only within the
building.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A location where food is prepared and consumed within
or without the building or removed from the building and lot for consumption.
   RESTAURANT, TAKE-OUT. A location where food is prepared or offered for sale
but must be removed from the building and lot for consumption.
   RETAIL STORE. Any building or structure in which goods, wares or merchandise
are sold to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption and not for resale.
   ROOF LINE.  The point at which the wall of a structure meets the roof. A
parapet wall is considered to be above the ROOF LINE.
   ROOM. Any area used for sleeping, living or preparation of food. Dining
areas may be included in any living room or kitchen. Kitchens, bedrooms and
living rooms may not be combined. Kitchenettes which are enclosed and not
larger than 20 square feet shall not be considered as ROOMS. Hidden beds,
either in furniture or walls, shall not be considered a combination of ROOMS.
   ROOMER. Any person, not the principal tenant or a family member of the
principal tenant, who resides in a dwelling unit and pays remuneration to the
principal tenant, as distinguished from a “guest” who does not pay. The ROOMER
shall not have private cooking facilities available. Rooms with private cooking
facilities shall be considered apartments.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any land or building over 200 square feet in area used for
abandonment, storage, keeping, collection or baling of paper, rags, scrap
metals, other scrap or discarded materials or for abandonment, demolition,
dismantling, storage or salvaging of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery
or parts thereof.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of five or more commercial establishments planned,
developed and managed as a unit with off-street parking provided on the same
property and related in location, size and type of shops in the center.
   SIGN. Any structure, part thereof or device attached thereto or painted or
represented thereon on any material or thing, which displays letters, numerals,
words, trademark or other representation used for direction or designation of
any person, firm, organization, place, product, service, business or industry
which is located upon any land, on any building, in or upon a window, or
indoors in such a manner as to attract attention from outside of the building.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. Any sign erected for the purpose of advertising a
business, product, event, person or subject not relating to the premises on
which said sign is located.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign having a conspicuous and intermittent variation in
the illumination or physical position of any part of the sign; provided,
however, the rotation of a sign turning at less than one complete rotation
every 15 seconds shall not be considered ANIMATED.
   SIGN, AREA. The area of sign structures, consisting of letters or symbols
and any solid background surface on which they are mounted or integrally a part
of shall be included in the calculation of total SIGN AREA. The area of open
sign structures, consisting of letter or symbols without a solid surface in
between, shall be calculated on the basis of the total area within the
perimeter of the group of letters and/or symbols. The area of a double face
sign, which is constructed back to back as a single unit, shall be calculated
according to the surface area of one side only.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. Any sign erected for the purpose of advertising a business,
product or subject related to the premises on which said sign is located.
   SIGN, ENCROACHING. A sign which projects beyond the private property line
into and over public property.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A structure erected for the purpose of advertising a
business or activity on the same parcel. Such structures shall not be attached
to a building which may be located on the same parcel. Such a sign may also be
known as a PYLON SIGN.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights in, or upon
the ground with any part of the display surface of the sign less than eight
feet above the grade at the base of the sign.
   SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION. Any sign used for the purpose of advertising services
in conjunction with a lawful home occupation.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or of the ceiling above it. A
basement shall be counted as a STORY if its ceiling is over six feet above the
average level of the finished ground surface adjoining the exterior walls of
such story or if it is used for business or dwelling purposes.
   STORY, HALF.  A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A HALF STORY containing independent apartments or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
   STORY, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the top surface of one floor to
the top surface of the floor above. The height of the topmost story is the
distance from the top surface of the floor to the top surface of the ceiling
joists.
   STORY, TWO. A building having the outside vertical walls extend from the top
surface of the floor on the bottom story and intersecting at the minimum
ceiling height of the second story.
   STREET. A public dedicated right-of-way other than an alley, which provides
primary access to abutting properties and over which the public has easement of
vehicular access.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders or any substantial changes in
the roof and exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, assembled or erected, the use of which
requires location on the ground or attachment to something having location on
or in the ground, and shall include fences which are more than 50% solid,
tanks, towers, advertising devices, bins, tents, lunch wagons, trailers, dining
cars, camp cars or similar structures on wheels or other supports used for
business or living purposes. The word STRUCTURE shall not apply to wires and
their supporting poles or frames of electrical or telephone utilities or to
service utilities entirely below the ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of sale, or lease of
more than one year, or of building development, where the act of division
creates five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or less in area
are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any artificial or semi-artificial container capable of
holding water to a depth of 18 inches or more at any point either above or
below ground.
   TOURIST-ORIENTED DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign used to provide motorists with
advance notice of a lawful cultural, historical, recreational, educational or
commercial activity that is annually attended by 2,000 or more people for which
a major portion of the activity's income or visitors are derived during the
normal business season.
   TRAILER. Any structure used or designed for sleeping, living, business or
storage purposes having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks
or similar support and which has been or reasonably can be transported or drawn
by automotive power.
   USE. The principal purpose for which land or the main building is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which it is or may be used, occupied or
maintained.
   VARIANCE. The granting to a petitioner, by the Board of Appeals, of
permission to vary from the strict application of this chapter, as provided in
§§
153.030 through
153.047.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pewamo, Ionia County, Michigan.
   YARD. Open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings lying
between the building and the nearest lot or street right-of-way line and
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except for plants, trees,
shrubs or fences as otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. Open space extending across the full width of the lot between
the front lot line or the proposed front street line and the nearest line of
the building or portion thereof. The depth of such yard shall be the shortest
horizontal distance between the front lot line of proposed front street line
and the nearest point of the building or any portion thereof.
   YARD, MINIMUM FRONT. The minimum yard requirement that extends the full
width of a lot to a depth off the road right-of-way for that full width which
must remain clear or open and in which no structures may be built.
   YARD, REAR. Open space extending the full width of the lot between the rear
line of the lot and the nearest line of the building, porch or projection
thereof. The depth of such yard is the average horizontal distance between the
rear lot line and the nearest point of the building. On corner lots, the REAR
YARD shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its
least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the REAR YARD shall in
all cases be the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. Open, unoccupied space between the building and the side of the
lot and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a
front line or a rear line shall be deemed a side line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR or ZONING OFFICIAL. The Zoning Administrator of the
Village of Pewamo as designated by the Village Council.
(Ord., Art. VIII, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012; Ord., passed
5-14-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.015 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Village
Planning Commission and Village Council in accordance with Public Act 110 of
2006 being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., Public Act 12 of 2008 being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.3101 et seq. and Public Act 33 of 2008 being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq.. The Village Council shall establish a Building and Zoning Department and
shall employ a Zoning Official to act as its officer to affect the proper
administration of this chapter. The term of employment, rate of compensation
and any other conditions of employment shall be established by the Village
Council. Nothing set forth herein shall be construed as prohibiting the village
from entering into agreements with other entities for the purpose of sharing
labor and administrative expenses in connection with administration and
enforcement. Applications for building permits shall be filed with the county,
and its Building Official shall oversee compliance and Building Code
enforcement.
   (B)   All applications for zoning permits shall be submitted to the Zoning
Official, or his or her designee, who may issue permits and certificates of
occupancy when all applicable provisions of this chapter have been met. The
Zoning Official shall be empowered to make inspections of premises to carry out
his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall record all nonconforming uses existing as of
the effective date of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., § 2.1, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.016 BUILDING PERMITS.
   The following shall apply in the issuance of any permit.
   (A)   Requirements for permit. The excavation for any building or structure
shall not be commenced; the erection of, addition to, alteration of or moving
of any building or structure shall not be undertaken; nor shall any land be
used; and an existing use of land shall not be enlarged upon or changed to a
use of a different type or class until a building permit or certificate of
occupancy has been secured from appropriate officials. No building permit or
certificate of occupancy or zoning compliance shall be issued for any building
or use of land where the construction, addition, alteration or use thereof
would be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Expiration. All building permits shall expire one year from and after
date of issuance. The appropriate official may grant an extension of such
permits for not more than three additional months upon good cause being shown
by the permittee.
   (C)   Sketch plan. Except where a site plan meeting the standards of §
153.085 is required, there shall be submitted with all applications for permits
one copy of a sketch plan showing:
      (1)   The location, shape, area and dimension of the lot;
      (2)   The location, dimension, height and bulk of the existing and/or
proposed structures to be erected, altered or moved onto said lot;
      (3)   Intended uses;
      (4)   Proposed number of sleeping rooms, dwelling units, occupants,
employees, customers or other uses;
      (5)   The yard, open space and parking space dimensions; and
      (6)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Building and Zoning
Official to determine and provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Inspection. The development or usage proposed by any building permit
shall be subject to two zoning compliance inspections concurrent with the first
and final inspections required by the applicable building code. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to notify the Building and Zoning Official regarding
the time that construction will be ready for inspection. Failure of the permit
holder to make proper requests for inspections shall automatically cancel the
permit issued and shall require the issuance of a new permit before
construction may proceed or occupancy may be permitted.
   (E)   Fees. Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or certificates
required under this chapter shall be collected by the Building and Zoning
Official in advance of issuance. The amount of fees shall be established and
amended from time to time by the county and the Village Council, and shall
cover the cost of inspection and supervision resulting from the enforcement of
this chapter.
(Ord., § 2.2, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.017 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Required. No land shall be occupied or used or changed in use until a
certificate of occupancy or zoning compliance shall have been issued by the
Zoning Official, stating that the building and its proposed use comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Records of certificate. A record of all certificates issued shall be
kept on file in the office of the Building and Zoning Official and copies shall
be furnished, at cost, upon the request of any person having a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the property involved.
(Ord., § 2.3, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.030 MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   There shall be a Board of Appeals consisting of five members appointed by
the Village Council; each member thereof to be appointed for a term of three
years; provided, however, that the first members of the Board of Appeals shall
be appointed for staggered terms of one, two and three years, respectively, so
as to nearly as possible provide for the appointment of an equal number of
members each year. After initial appointments, each member shall hold office
for the full three-year term. In addition, the Council may appoint up to two
alternate members for the same term. Alternates may be called upon on a
rotating basis to sit in the absence of a regular member or when a regular
member may, on a particular matter, have a conflict of interest. The foregoing
notwithstanding, one regular member of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be a
member of the Planning Commission, and one regular member of the Zoning Board
of Appeals may be a member of the Village Council. The terms of the members
appointed from the Planning Commission and the Village Council shall run
concurrently with their term of office in said bodies, or until their
appointment is revoked by said body. The legislative body of the Village of
Pewamo may act as a Zoning Board of Appeals and may establish rules to govern
its procedure as a Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord., § 3.1, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012; Ord. passed 10-14-
2019)
§ 153.031 POWER OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and review any
order, requirements, decision or determination made by an administrative
official charged with the enforcement of an ordinance adopted under M.C.L.A. §§
125.3601 et seq. The Board of Appeals shall also hear and decide matters
referred to the Board or upon which the Board is required to pass under this
chapter.
(Ord., § 3.2, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.032 VOTE REQUIRED FOR DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Appeals
shall be necessary to reverse an order, requirement, decision or determination
of an administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on a
matter upon which the Board is required to pass under this chapter.
(Ord., § 3.3, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.033 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such other times as the Board may determine for the efficient conduct of its
business. The business which the Board of Appeals may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with Public Act 267 of 1976
(State Open Meetings Act), being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246.
(Ord., § 3.4, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.034 RECORDS OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A writing prepared, owned, used or in the possession of or retained by the
Board of Appeals in the performance of an official function shall be made
available to the public in accordance with Public Act 442 of 1976.
(Ord., § 3.5, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.035 BOARD OF APPEALS’ HEARINGS, NOTICE.
   The Board of Appeals shall schedule the hearing on an appeal within a
reasonable time and provide notice of such hearing in accordance with §
153.126.
(Ord., § 3.6, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.036 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify
the order, requirement decision or determination appealed from and shall make
any order, requirement, decision or determination as, in the Board’s opinion,
ought to be made in the premises and to that end shall have all the powers of
the office from whom the appeal is taken. If there are practical difficulties
in the carrying out of the strict letter of this chapter, the Board of Appeals
may, in passing upon appeals, vary or modify any of its rules or provisions
relating to the construction or structural changes in equipment or alteration
of buildings or structures or dimensions of buildings or structures so that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial
justice done. The foregoing notwithstanding, the Board’s powers shall not
include the hearing of appeals from the decision of the Village Council or
Planning Commission unless such specific appeal is authorized herein.
(Ord., § 3.7, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.037 APPEALS, BY WHOM TAKEN.
   An appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved by the decision of any
officer or department of the village.
(Ord., § 3.8, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.038 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules of procedure as may be
necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out its function. The Board shall
choose its own Chairperson, and in his or her absence, an acting Chairperson.
Minutes shall be recorded of all proceedings which shall contain evidence and
the date relevant to every case considered together with the votes of the
members and the final disposition of each case. Such minutes shall be filed in
the office of the Village Clerk and shall be made available to the general
public upon request. The Village Clerk shall act as Secretary of the Board of
Appeals and all records of the Board’s actions shall be taken and recorded
under said Clerk’s direction.
(Ord., § 3.9, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.039 COUNSEL.
   The Village Attorney shall act as a legal counsel for the Board and shall be
present at all meetings upon request of the Board.
(Ord., § 3.10, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.040 APPEALS.
   A written notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof shall be filed
with the Village Clerk within ten days after the date of the action appealed
from. A copy of the notice shall promptly be served upon the office from whom
the appeal is taken who shall forthwith transmit to the Board all records upon
which the action appealed from was taken. An appeal shall stay all proceedings,
decisions or orders unless said officer certifies to the Board that a stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause eminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed except upon restraining order by the
Circuit Court.
(Ord., § 3.11, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.041 FEES.
   A fee as established by the Village Council shall be paid to the Village
Clerk at the time of the filing of the application for appeal with the Board.
The purpose of such fee is to cover, in part, the necessary advertisements,
investigations and other expenses incurred by the Board in connection with the
appeal including compensation for Board of Appeals’ members as established
uniformly by the Village Council.
(Ord., § 3.12, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.042 SPECIFIC DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Village Board of Appeals shall not have the power to alter or change the
zoning district classification of any property nor to make any change in the
terms or intent of this chapter. The Board of Appeals does have the power to
act on those matters where this chapter provides for an administrative review,
interpretation, variance or exception.
(Ord., § 3.13, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.043 REVIEW.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the applicant
that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit, decision or refusal
made by the Building and Zoning Official or any other official in administering
or enforcing any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., § 3.14, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.044 INTERPRETATION.
   The Board shall have the power to:
   (A)   Interpret upon request the provisions of this chapter in such a way to
carry out its intent and purpose;
   (B)   Determine the precise location of the boundary lines between zoning
districts; and
   (C)   Upon appeal from a decision regarding unclassified uses by the
Planning Commission as provided in §
153.080(V), the Board of Appeals may classify a land use which is not
specifically mentioned as a part of the use regulations of any zoning district
to determine its compatibility or incompatibility with other uses in accordance
with the purpose and intent of each district.
(Ord., § 3.15, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.045 VARIANCES.
    In addition to the other duties and powers specified in this chapter, the
Board, after public hearing, shall have the power to authorize specific
variances from such requirements as lot area and width regulations, building
height and bulk regulations, yard and depth regulations, and off-street parking
and loading space requirements, provided that all of the basic conditions
listed herein and at least one of the special conditions listed thereafter can
be satisfied.
   (A)   Basic conditions. Any variance granted from this chapter:
      (1)   Will not be contrary to the public interest or to the intent and
purpose of this chapter;
      (2)   Shall not permit the establishment within a district of any use
which is not permitted by right within that zone district or any use or
dimensional variance for which a conditional use permit or temporary use permit
is required;
      (3)   Will not cause substantial, adverse effect upon the property values
in the immediate vicinity or in the district in which the property of the
applicant is located;
      (4)   Is not one where the special conditions relating to the property
are so general or recurrent in nature so as to make the formulation of a
general regulation for such conditions reasonably practical; and
      (5)   Relates only to the property that is under the control of the
applicant.
   (B)   Special conditions. When all of the foregoing basic conditions can be
satisfied, a variance may be granted when any one of the following special
conditions can be clearly demonstrated:
      (1)   Where there are practical difficulties which prevent the carrying
out of the express provisions of this chapter. Such difficulties shall not be
deemed economic but shall be evaluated in terms of the use of the particular
parcel of the land;
      (2)   Where there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
physical conditions such as narrowness, shallowness, shape or topography of the
property involved or to the intended use of the property that do not generally
apply to other property or uses in the same zoning district. Such circumstances
or conditions shall not have resulted from any act of the applicant subsequent
to the adoption of this chapter; or
      (3)   Where such variation is necessary for the preservation of a
substantial property right possessed by other properties in the same zoning
district.
   (C)   Rules. The following rules shall be applied in the granting of
variances.
      (1)   The Board may specify, in writing, such conditions regarding the
character, location and other features that will, in its judgment, secure the
objective and purposes of this chapter. The breach of any such condition shall
automatically invalidate the variance granted.
      (2)   Each variance granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
become null and void unless the construction authorized by such variance or
permit has been commenced within six months after the granting of the variance
and the occupancy of land, premises or buildings authorized by the variance
have taken place within one year after the granting of the variance.
      (3)   No application for a variance that has been denied wholly or in
part by the Board shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date
of last denial except on grounds of newly discovered evidence or proof of
changed conditions found upon inspection by the Board to be valid.
(Ord., § 3.16, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.046 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   When, in its judgment, the public welfare will be served and the use
of neighboring property will not be injured thereby, the Board may, in a
specific case, after due notice and public hearing and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards, determine and vary the application of the
regulations of this chapter in harmony with the general character of the
district and the intent and purposes of this chapter. The granting of a special
exception shall in no way constitute a change in the basic uses permitted in
the district effected nor on the property wherein the exception is permitted.
   (B)   The Board may issue either temporary or conditional permits as special
exceptions for the following land and structure uses:
      (1)   Temporary permits. For temporary uses, temporary structures,
partial structures including trailer coaches not located in a licensed mobile
home park subject to the following procedures and limitations.
         (a)   Application for a permit for a use of a temporary or partial
structure for dwelling purposes shall be made to the Board on a special form.
         (b)   The Board shall give due notice to the applicant and to all
property owners within 300 feet of the property effected at least 15 days
before the hearing will be held on such application.
         (c)   Said temporary permit shall not be granted unless the Board
finds adequate evidence that the proposed location of the use will not be
detrimental to the property in the immediate vicinity and that water and
sanitary facilities have been approved by the appropriate health department.
         (d)   The Board may impose any reasonable conditions including
setbacks, land coverage or off-street parking, landscaping and other
requirements deemed necessary to protect adjoining properties and the public
welfare. The violation of such condition shall invalidate the permit.
         (e)   The permit issued shall clearly set forth the conditions under
which the permit is granted (e.g., during reconstruction of a permanent home
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe) and shall state that the proposed
temporary dwelling structure is to be vacated upon the expiration of a specific
time limit not to exceed 12 months. No permit issued under this section shall
be transferrable to any other owner or occupant.
      (2)   Conditional permits for reduction and off-street parking
requirements.  
         (a)   The Board may authorize a reduction, modification or waiver of
any of the off-street parking or off-street loading regulations set forth in §§
153.125 through
153.127, when the applicant has demonstrated that circumstances of extreme
practical difficulty exist that would unquestionably result in hardship to the
applicant when a literal interpretation of the regulations is required.
Hardship shall not be deemed to be economic but shall be evaluated in terms of
the use of the particular parcel of land. A hardship that is a result of any
action of the applicant taken after the adoption of this chapter shall not be
considered by the Board. The foregoing notwithstanding, in no case shall off-
street parking or off-street loading standards be reduced by more than 25%.
         (b)   Joint use of off-street parking areas may be authorized when the
capacities required in §§
153.125 through
153.127 are met and when a copy of an agreement between joint users shall be
filed with the application for a building permit and recorded as an easement
with the Register of Deeds of this county guaranteeing continued use of the
parking facilities for each party.
(Ord., § 3.17, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.047 BOND FOR COMPLIANCE/PERFORMANCE.
   In authorizing any variance or in granting any conditional temporary or
special permit, the Board of Appeals may require that a bond of the type
acceptable to the Board of Appeals be furnished to ensure compliance of the
requirements, specifications and conditions imposed with the grant of variance
or permit and to ensure the discontinuance of a temporary use by a stipulated
time.
(Ord., § 3.18, passed 8-5-1991)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.060 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The village is hereby divided into the following districts:
 
R-1 Neighborhood Conservation District
R-2 Low Density Single-Family Residential District
R-3 Multi-Family Residential District
C-1 Central Business District
C-2 Highway Commercial District
I-1 Light Industrial District
A-1 Agricultural Rural Estate District
 
(Ord., § 4.1, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.061 ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   (A)   The areas and boundaries of such districts noted above are hereby
established to scale as shown on a map entitled “Zoning District Map of the
Village of Pewamo”, and is referred to here as the “Zoning Map”. Said Zoning
Map, together with everything shown thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. A copy is included under Appendix A to
this chapter.
   (B)   Regardless of the existence of copies of the Zoning Map which may be
made or published, the official Zoning Map shall be located at the village
office and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status in the
village.
   (C)   Whenever any portion of a township is annexed to the village, the
Village Council shall lawfully adopt zoning regulations within two years of the
annexation. Any existing zoning regulations shall remain in full force until
such time as the Village Council adopts such regulations.
   (D)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official Zoning
Map, such changes shall be entered on the official Zoning Map promptly after
the amendment has been approved by the Village Council.
(Ord., § 4.2, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.062 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
rivers, waterways, roads, streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to
follow such centerline;
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted or
unplatted lot lines shall be construed to follow such lot lines;
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village boundaries
shall be construed to follow village boundaries; and
      (4)   Distance not specifically indicated on the official Zoning Map
shall be determined by the scale of the official Zoning Map.
   (B)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not
covered by divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) above, the Zoning Administrator
shall interpret the district boundaries. Upon appeal, the Zoning Board of
Appeals reserves the right to review and uphold or override the interpretation
of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord., § 4.3, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.063 R-1 NEIGHBORHOOD CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. The R-1 District is established for those
areas of the village that reflect an established land use pattern and are
primarily residential in nature. The regulations are designed to protect the
general character of the district and to maintain the quality of such areas for
future residential use.
   (B)   Uses permitted as a matter of right. Single-family dwellings.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit.
      (1)   Two-family dwelling or conversion of an existing single-family
dwelling to a two-family dwelling;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Schools;
      (4)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (5)   Essential services;
      (6)   Customary home occupations as an accessory to residential use; and
      (7)   Expansion of any of the above uses permitted by special use permit.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted when located on the same lot as a permitted
primary use.
      (1)   Private auto garages, carports;
      (2)   Child playhouse, swingsets and similar apparatus;
      (3)   Doghouses, pens and similar structures;
      (4)   Fallout shelters;
      (5)   Swimming pool and/or bathhouse;
      (6)   Porches, gazebos, decks and similar structures;
      (7)   One “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign per lot; and
      (8)   Tennis, basketball or volleyball court and similar uses for private
use.
   (E)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 6,000 square feet;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings: 9,000 square feet; and
         (c)   All other uses: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 60 feet;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings: 85 feet; and
         (c)   All other uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Required front yard: 10 feet;
      (4)   Required rear yard: 20 feet;
      (5)   Required side yard:
         (a)   Residential uses: five feet, except that the street side of a
corner lot shall provide a minimum 25-foot side yard; and
         (b)   All other uses: a 25-foot side yard shall be maintained.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 50%;
      (7)   Maximum building height:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 35 feet;
         (b)   Churches and schools: 40 feet; and
         (c)   All other uses: 35 feet.
      (8)   Minimum floor area:
         (a)   Eight hundred square feet (per dwelling unit); and
         (b)   Minimum floor area on ground floor if greater than one story;
720 square feet.
(Ord., § 4.4(1), passed 8-5-1991; Ord., passed 11-25-2024)
§ 153.064 R-2 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. The R-2 District is established to provide
adequate locations for single-family development and to protect existing
single-family development from the undesirable effects of incompatible uses.
Certain other residential and nonresidential uses are permitted where such uses
are deemed to be compatible with single-family development.
   (B)   Uses permitted as a matter of right. Single-family dwellings.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit.
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Schools;
      (3)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Essential services; and
      (5)   Customary home occupations.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted when located on the same lot as a permitted
primary use. Same as R-1 District.
   (E)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 8,000 square feet in areas served by
both city water and city sewer systems; 10,000 square feet in all other areas;
and
         (b)   All other uses: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 70 feet; and
         (b)   All other uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Required front yard:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 25 feet, except that where the two
adjacent lots are developed, the established setback shall apply;
         (b)   Churches and schools: 50 feet; and
         (c)   All other uses: 25 feet, except that where the two adjacent lots
are developed, the established setback shall apply.
      (4)   Required rear yard: 20 feet;
      (5)   Required side yard:
         (a)   Residential uses: ten feet, except that the street side of a
corner lot shall provide a minimum 25-foot side yard; and
         (b)   All other uses: a 40-foot side yard shall be maintained.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 50%;
      (7)   Maximum building height:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings: 35 feet;
         (b)   Churches and schools: 40 feet; and
         (c)   All other uses: 35 feet.
      (8)   Minimum floor area:
         (a)   Eight hundred square feet (per dwelling unit); and
         (b)   Minimum floor area on ground floor if greater than one story;
720 square feet.
(Ord., § 4.4(2), passed 8-5-1991; Ord., passed 11-25-2024)
§ 153.065 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. The R-3 District is established to provide
adequate opportunities for multiple-family development and related or similar
uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted as a matter of right.
      (1)   One-family dwellings; and
      (2)   Two-family dwellings.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit.
      (1)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (2)   Senior citizen housing;
      (3)   Convalescent home;
      (4)   Nursing home;
      (5)   Hospital;
      (6)   Nursery and day care center;
      (7)   Mobile home parks;
      (8)   Churches;
      (9)   Schools;
      (10)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (11)   Customary home occupations; and
      (12)   Government offices.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted when located on the same lot as a permitted
primary use.
      (1)   Private auto garages, carports;
      (2)   Child playhouse, swingsets and similar apparatus;
      (3)   Doghouses, pens and similar structures;
      (4)   Fallout shelters;
      (5)   Swimming pool and/or bathhouse;
      (6)   Porches, gazebos, decks and similar structures;
      (7)   One “For Sale” or “For Rent” sign per lot; and
      (8)   Tennis, basketball or volleyball court and similar uses for private
use.
   (E)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Single-family or two-family dwelling: same as R-1 District; and
         (b)   All other uses: 20,000 square feet or 5,000 square feet per
dwelling unit whichever is greater.
      (2)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   Single-family or two-family dwelling: same as R-1 District; and
         (b)   All other uses: 100 feet.
      (3)   Required front yard:
         (a)   Single-family or two-family dwelling: same as R-1 District; and
         (b)   All other uses: 50 feet.
      (4)   Required rear yard:
         (a)   Single-family or two-family dwelling: same as R-1 District; and
         (b)   All other uses: 25 feet.
      (5)   Required side yard: 25 feet, except that the street side of a
corner lot shall provide a minimum 40 feet side yard;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 50%;
      (7)   Maximum building height: 40 feet; and
      (8)   Minimum floor area:
         (a)   One-bedroom: 600 square feet;
         (b)   Two-bedroom: 720 square feet;
         (c)   Three-bedroom: 850 square feet; and
         (d)   Four-bedroom: 1,000 square feet.
(Ord., § 4.4(3), passed 8-5-1991; Ord., passed 11-25-2024)
§ 153.066 C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This district is established to provide areas
for general commercial uses, including retail business or service
establishments which meet the needs of the community and are consistent with
the intended character of the Central Business District.
   (B)   Uses permitted as a matter of right.
      (1)   Retail food establishments which supply groceries, fruits,
vegetables, meats, dairy products, baked goods, confections or similar
commodities for consumption off the premises. Foodstuffs may be prepared or
manufactured on the premises as an accessory activity if the sale of the
product is limited to the local retail store and not more than five persons are
employed on the premises in such production;
      (2)   Other retail businesses such as drug, variety, dry goods, clothing,
music, book, hardware, appliances or furniture stores;
      (3)   Personal service establishments which perform services on the
premises such as barber or beauty shops, repair shops for shoes, radio,
television, jewelry, self-service laundries and photographic studios;
      (4)   Professional offices of doctors, lawyers, architects, dentists,
engineers, chiropractors and other similar professions and banks;
      (5)   Post office and similar governmental office buildings;
      (6)   Municipal buildings and service installations;
      (7)   Commercial schools, including art, music, dance, business,
professional and trade;
      (8)   Restaurants;
      (9)   Service establishments including printing, publishing, photo
reproduction, blueprinting and related trades or arts; and
      (10)   Any similar retail business whose principal activity is the sale
of merchandise within an enclosed building.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit.
      (1)   Assembly buildings, including dance pavilions, theaters,
auditoriums, churches and private clubs, not including drive-in theaters;
      (2)   Medical or dental clinics;
      (3)   Retail food establishments, bakeries and similar uses employing
more than five persons in food production;
      (4)   Public utility and service building not requiring a storage yard;
      (5)   Drive-in businesses, including banks, drive-in restaurants, dry
cleaning pickup stations or similar personal services;
      (6)   Nurseries and day care centers, except nurseries and day care
centers which are exempt from local zoning;
      (7)   Restaurants and clubs which permit the consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises, or permit dancing or live entertainment;
      (8)   Repair and service establishments, including but not limited to
lawn mower repair, snowmobile repair, boat repair or air conditioner repair
shops that are operated in conjunction with a retail business;
      (9)   Mortuaries and funeral homes;
      (10)   Amusement establishments, including video and pinball arcades;
      (11)   Farm equipment sales;
      (12)   Rooming house, boarding house;
      (13)   Residential uses only when located at the second story level;
      (14)   Open air businesses;
      (15)   Vehicle service stations, including automobile repair and car
washes but not including body shops;
      (16)   Commercial recreation facilities such as indoor theaters, bowling
alleys, indoor skating rinks, health and fitness salons, tennis and handball
courts, or similar uses;
      (17)   Veterinary hospitals, clinics and kennels;
      (18)   Building supply and equipment establishments;
      (19)   Hotels and motels;
      (20)   Commercial enterprises producing merchandise on the premises;
      (21)   Amusement parks;
      (22)   Warehouses selling retail on the premises, provided there is no
outside storage or stockpiling; and
      (23)   Automobile dealerships, including minor or major automobile repair
as an accessory.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted when located on the same lot as the permitted
primary uses.
      (1)   Automobile parking areas;
      (2)   Loading areas; and
      (3)   Signs, as regulated herein
   (E)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet;
      (3)   Required front yard: none, except that where the two adjacent lots
are developed, the established setback shall apply;
      (4)   Required rear yard: none, except that where the rear lot line abuts
any residential district, a 25-foot rear yard setback shall be maintained;
      (5)   Required side yard: none, except:
         (a)   Where a building is not constructed on the lot line, a five-foot
setback is required;
         (b)   The street side of a corner lot shall provide a ten-foot
setback; and
         (c)   Where the side lot line abuts a residential district, a 20-foot
setback shall be required.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 100%; and
      (7)   Maximum building height: 40 feet.
(Ord., § 4.4(4), passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.067 C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This District is established to provide areas
for general commercial activities, especially those likely to be located on or
adjacent to high volume streets and roads, and away from concentrated
residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses as a matter of right.
      (1)   Those uses listed in §
153.066(B).
      (2)   Those uses listed in §
153.066(C).
   (C)   Accessory uses permitted when located on the same lot as the permitted
primary uses.
      (1)   Automobile parking areas;
      (2)   Loading areas; and
      (3)   Signs, as regulated herein.
   (D)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet;
      (3)   Required front yard: 30 feet;
      (4)   Required rear yard: 25 feet;
      (5)   Required side yard: ten feet;
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 50%; and
      (7)   Maximum building height: 40 feet.
(Ord., § 4.4(5), passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.068 I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. The Light Industrial District is established
for the purpose of designating certain portions of the village for industrial
and wholesale uses such as manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, shipping,
storage or warehousing of articles or materials.
   (B)   Uses permitted as a matter of right.
      (1)   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, treating and
assembling from previously prepared materials in the production of:
         (a)   Food products, including meat, dairy, fruits, vegetables,
seafood, grain, bakery, confectionery, beverage and kindred foods;
         (b)   Textile mill products including woven fabric, knit goods, dyeing
and finishing, floor covering, yarn and thread, and other textile goods;
         (c)   Apparel and other finished products made from fabrics, leather
goods, fur, canvas and similar materials;
         (d)   Lumber and wood products including millwork, prefabricated
structural wood products and containers, not including logging camps;
         (e)   Furniture and fixtures;
         (f)   Paperboard containers, building paper, building board and
bookbinding;
         (g)   Printing and publishing;
         (h)   Chemical products such as plastics, perfumes and synthetic
fibers;
         (i)   Manufacturing of engineering, measuring, optic, medical, lenses,
photographic and similar instruments; and
         (j)   Jewelry, silverware, toys, athletic, office and tobacco goods,
musical instruments, signs and displays, lamp shades and similar manufacturing.
      (2)   Wholesale establishments including automotive equipment, drugs,
chemicals, dry goods, apparel, food, farm products, electrical goods, hardware,
machinery, equipment, metals, paper products and furnishings, and lumber and
building products;
      (3)   Warehouses, cartage business;
      (4)   Laboratories, including experimental, film and testing;
      (5)   Trade or industrial schools and veterinary hospitals or clinics;
      (6)   Motor freight terminal including garaging and maintenance of
equipment, freight forwarding, packing and crating services;
      (7)   Central dry cleaning plant;
      (8)   Municipal buildings and public service buildings;
      (9)   Electricity regulating substation, pressure control substation and
pressure control station for gas, water and sewage;
      (10)   Grain storage and milling, feed store, storage and sales of
agricultural products and similar uses; and
      (11)   Major automobile repair including automobile body shops.
   (C)   Use permitted by special use permit.
      (1)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treating,
assembling and bulk storage of:
         (a)   Chemical products such as drugs, soaps, detergents, paints,
enamels, wood chemicals, agricultural and allied chemicals;
         (b)   Rubber manufacturing or reclaiming, such as tires, tubes and
footwear;
         (c)   Stone, clay, glass, cement, brick, pottery, abrasives, tile and
related products;
         (d)    Primary metal industries, steel works, refining of nonferrous
metals or alloys rolling and extruding; and
         (e)   Fabricated metal manufacturing, including engines, machinery,
electrical equipment, metal stamping, wire products and structural metal
products.
      (2)   Pulp and paper manufacturing;
      (3)   Heating and electric power generating plants;
      (4)   Mining, processing and transporting of stone, sand or gravel
aggregate;
      (5)   Paving materials, roofing materials and other related industries;
      (6)   Water supply and treatment facilities;
      (7)   Waste disposal facilities including incinerators and recycling;
      (8)   Automobile repair establishments, including body shops;
      (9)   Contractors’ yards and building materials storage;
      (10)   Lumberyards; and
      (11)   Veterinary hospitals, clinics and kennels.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted when located on the same lot as a permitted
primary use.
      (1)   Automobile or truck parking; and
      (2)   Signs as regulated herein.
   (E)   Bulk regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Required front yard: 20 feet, except that where the two adjacent
lots are developed, the established setback shall apply;
      (4)   Required rear yard: ten feet, except where the rear lot line is
adjacent to a residential zone, a 25-foot setback shall be maintained;
      (5)   Required side yard: none, except:
         (a)   Where a building is not constructed on the lot line, a five-foot
setback is required;
         (b)   The street side of a corner lot shall provide a ten-foot
setback; and
         (c)   Where the side lot line abuts a residential district, a 20-foot
setback shall be required.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage: 75%; and
      (7)   Maximum building height: 40 feet.
(Ord., § 4.4(6), passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.069 A-1 AGRICULTURAL/RURAL ESTATE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This zoning district is established to protect and
preserve agricultural land and rural characteristics of the village. Another
major purpose of this district is to provide opportunity for rural estate
development. Accessory uses and certain nonresidential uses described herein
are also allowed, according to their compatibility with existing uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted by a matter of right.
      (1)   Agriculture, including horticulture, forestry and the raising or
keeping of livestock and/or poultry, together with farm dwellings and buildings
necessary to such farms including the operation of a roadside produce stand;
      (2)   Additional supplementary uses, including accessory buildings as
necessary and compatible with the character of the district;
      (3)   Greenhouses or nurseries;
      (4)   Freestanding identifying signs; and
      (5)   Cemeteries which lawfully occupied land at the time of the adoption
of this chapter.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special use permit. The following uses of land and
structures may be permitted, subject to conditions hereinafter imposed for each
use and by the application and the issuance of a special use permit:
      (1)   Non-farm estate dwellings per 40 acres of land;
      (2)   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work. Such
buildings shall be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the
construction work or within the period of one year, whichever is the lesser
time period;
      (3)   Railroad right-of-way, including all necessary trackage, switches
and operating devices but excluding storage, marshaling yards, freight yards or
sidings;
      (4)   Golf courses and country clubs, other than golf driving ranges and
miniature golf courses, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The site area shall be 50 acres or more and shall be so designed
as to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major arterial;
         (b)   A site plan of the proposed development shall be reviewed and
approved by the Village Planning Commission. Such site plan shall indicate the
location of service roads, entrances, driveways and parking areas and shall be
so designed in relationship to the major arterial that pedestrian and vehicular
traffic safety is encouraged;
         (c)   Development features shall be shown on said site plans,
including the principal and accessory buildings, as to minimize any possible
adverse effects upon adjacent property. All principal or accessory buildings
and parking areas shall be not less than 200 feet from any property line of
abutting residentially zoned lands;
         (d)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, said pool shall be
located at least 100 feet from abutting residentially zoned property lines and
shall be provided with a protective fence six feet in height and entry shall be
by means of a controlled self-closing gate; and
         (e)   All lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so
arranged and maintained as to direct the light away from all residential lands
which adjoin the site.
      (5)   Cemeteries, public or private, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The site shall be no less than 20 acres and shall be so designed
as to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major thoroughfare
as classified in the Land Use Plan of the village;
         (b)   The location of proposed service roads, entrances and driveways
shall be so designed in relationship to the major thoroughfare that pedestrian
and vehicular traffic safety is encouraged; and
         (c)   No principal or accessory building shall be closer than 50 feet
from any abutting residentially zoned property line.
      (6)   Other uses such as institutions for human care, religious
institutions, educational and social institutions and public buildings; and
      (7)   The following minimum dimensions for lot area and width, for front,
side and rear yards, together with maximum dimensions for lot coverage and
building heights, shall be required for the principal structure and land use in
this district except as noted:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 40 acres except for public buildings;
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet along the street or road upon which
the lot principally fronts;
         (c)   Maximum lot coverage: All buildings, including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than 20% of the lot area;
         (d)   Minimum yard dimensions:
            1.   Front yard: 50 feet;
            2.   Side yard: 25 feet; and
            3.   Rear yard: 50 feet.
         (e)   Maximum building height: 40 feet; and
         (f)   Minimum dwelling floor area: 2,000 square feet exclusive of any
attached garage, porch or breezeway
(Ord., § 4.4(7), passed 8-5-1991)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.080 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ALL ZONES.
   The following regulations shall apply in all zones.
   (A)   Accessory buildings. All accessory buildings shall conform to the
following requirements.
      (1)   No accessory building may be built on any lot on which there is no
principal building; provided, however, that where adjoining lots are in single
ownership, they may be considered as one lot for placement of an accessory
building.
      (2)   Accessory buildings in a rear yard shall not be located closer than
three feet to any lot line; provided that where said lot line is a side lot
line of an adjacent lot or is alley right-of-way line, no accessory building
shall be located closer than six feet thereto unless a greater distance is
required by other provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Where an accessory building is located within 25 feet of a front
yard on an adjacent lot, it shall meet the front yard setback requirement.
      (4)   No accessory building shall be closer than six feet to any other
building on the same lot.
      (5)   A breezeway or roof, which meets current building codes, between an
accessory building and another building shall be deemed to make both structures
one.
      (6)   Architectural compatibility. All accessory buildings shall be
architecturally compatible with the principle building (i.e building materials,
roof pitch, height, etc.). A determination of architectural compatibility can
be referred to the Planning Commission at the sole discretion of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (7)   Accessory buildings and structures cannot be built of tubular frame
construction.
      (8)   Accessory buildings and structures cannot be constructed of canvas,
plastic film, vinyl siding, or similar material that does not provide long-term
durability. This includes portable garages and car canopies.
      (9)   Accessory buildings shall not be located within a dedicated
easement or right- of-way.
   (B)   Animals. Except as otherwise permitted by the State Right To Farm Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 through 287.474, and the then-current generally
accepted agricultural management practices (GAAMPS), the keeping, housing,
raising, use or medical care of fowl or animals, other than house pets of an
occupant of the premises, is prohibited except in the A-1 District. Where
animals other than house pets of the owner of the premises are kept or allowed
outside, a fence so constructed as to keep said animals from leaving the
premises at will shall be provided and regularly maintained.
   (C)   Area or space required. No lot, yard, court, parking area or other
space shall be so reduced in area or dimension as to make said area or
dimension less than the minimum required under this chapter. If already less
than the minimum required under this chapter, said area or dimension shall not
be further reduced.
   (D)   Basement dwellings.  The use of the basement of a partially built or
planned building as a dwelling unit is prohibited in all zones.
   (E)   Corner lot. Where a lot is bounded by two intersecting streets, the
front yard requirements shall be met on one abutting street only, provided that
no portion of the lot within 25 feet of the side lot line of any adjoining
property may be utilized unless the front yard requirement for the adjoining
property is met. Either street frontage may be designated by the owner as the
front street lot line, irrespective of the location of the building entryway.
   (F)   Dwelling in the rear. No dwelling shall be constructed, altered or
moved in the rear of a principal building situated on the same lot nor shall
any building be constructed in front of or moved in front of a dwelling
situated on the same lot.
   (G)   Essential services. Essential services may be located in any zone with
a special use permit.
   (H)   Existing platted lots.  Any parcel of real property of record in
single ownership at the time of adoption of this chapter that fails to comply
with the minimum area and lot size requirements of this chapter may be used for
a use permitted in its district, provided 90% compliance with each yard
requirement is effected. Any existing parcel of record, in common ownership
with adjacent parcels of record on or before the effective date of this chapter
may each be used as separate lots if each such parcel or lot contains 90% of
the required lot area. Where two or more such parcels in common ownership do
not comply with 90% of the required lot area, they shall be combined or
redivided to conform to this chapter. Where 40% or more of the lots in a block
have been built upon at a smaller lot size, the Board of Appeals may grant a
variance to this provision to conform to established neighborhood character.
   (I)   Height exceptions. The height requirements of all zones may be
exceeded by parapet walls not over four feet in height, chimneys, silos and
farm barns, television and radio antennas, cupolas, spires or other ornamental
projections or water towers. In the Light Industrial District, chimneys,
cooling and fire towers, elevator buildings and bulkheads, roof storage tanks
and other necessary appurtenances are permitted above the height limitations,
provided they are located the same distance as their height from any adjoining
property line.
   (J)   Public uses. Public land uses by local government and utilities may be
located in any zoning district by right.
   (K)   Lighting. All light sources of more than 100 watts used to illuminate
any structure, parking area or premises shall be diffused or shielded so as to
not project onto adjacent premises and so that the direct source of such
illumination is not visible from any public street.
   (L)   Occupancy. No new building, new portion of a building or portion of a
building vacated to permit alterations shall be occupied or reoccupied until an
occupancy permit is issued. No building declared unsafe or unfit for human
habitation shall be occupied or used.
   (M)   Open unoccupied space or yard. No required, open unoccupied space
shall be occupied by any structure except as regulated by the provisions of
this chapter. The following uses are also permitted: anything excepted from the
definition of a structure, landscaping, driveways, sidewalks, walls or fences,
lighting standards and signs as hereinafter regulated, and cantilevered roof
eaves not to exceed three feet of overhead into any such space and projections
as permitted by division (O) below.
   (N)   Principal use. No lot shall contain more than one principal use. Where
permitted, groups of buildings of the same use shall be considered as one
principal use of the premises.
   (O)   Projections. Retractable awnings may be erected in any zone. Permanent
awnings, canopies, marquees, eaves, balconies or decorative architectural
projections may extend up to 28 inches into any required yard or over a public
right-of-way where there is no yard required, provided that all such
projections must be at least eight feet above the ground immediately below. In
the C-1 Central Business District, the Village Council may approve other
projecting structures over the public right-of-way. Before granting such
approval the Council shall determine that the design and construction of said
structure will provide a harmonious appearance with other similar existing
structures.
   (P)   Refuse. The storage, collection or placing of discarded material,
inoperable equipment, unlicensed and/or inoperable vehicles or other refuse is
prohibited in all zones. Violators shall be given a 30-day notice to conform
with this chapter before further regulatory action is taken.
   (Q)   Restoring unsafe buildings. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any structure declared unsafe
by the Building Inspector; provided, however, that any such restoration of a
nonconforming structure shall not violate the provisions of this chapter
regulating creation, expansion, construction or reconstruction of a
nonconforming use or structure.
   (R)   Sewer and water. No building or occupancy permit shall be issued for
any premises to be occupied by human beings unless the building is served by an
available public sewer and public water system. In the event public sewer or
water is not available, said premises shall be served by septic system and a
well approved by the appropriate health department. The term “available public
sewer or water system” shall be as defined in the State Public Health Code.
   (S)   Vehicular traffic, site development plan. The general and intensive
use of the automobile requires careful study of the relationships between
buildings, parking areas, driveways, streets, alleys, pedestrian walkways,
traffic movements and visual obstructions or land uses or structures which
generate or attract automobile or truck parking. To fully ensure the safety,
convenience and well-being of the citizens and of the intended occupants of a
particular use, the Planning Commission is hereby empowered to review a site
development plan of any such use hereafter presented for review prior to the
issuance of a building permit. Approval shall be subject to the following
procedures and conditions:
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall ascertain that the proposed
development is arranged:
         (a)   To provide convenient and safe automobile circulation and
parking in relation to streets, pedestrian walkways and adjoining properties or
parking areas;
         (b)   To ensure adequate sight distances;
         (c)   To minimize conflicts of traffic movements on public streets and
upon the property involved; and
         (d)   To ensure the safety, convenience and well-being of adjoining
property owners and other citizens.
      (2)   Except as to areas reserved to the County Road Commission, the
Planning Commission is empowered to designate entryways and exits, the
direction of traffic flow on off-street parking areas and drives, to limit the
number of drives onto a public street, and to designate their location of
intersection with a public street; and
      (3)   Upon approval of said plan, the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission shall sign three copies thereof. One signed copy shall be returned
to the applicant; one shall be made a part of the Planning Commission’s files;
and one shall be forwarded to the Building Inspector for issuance of a building
permit.
   (T)   Traffic visibility. In any zone other than C-1 Central Business
District, on any corner lot, no fence, structure or planting over 30 inches in
height above the curb line, except deciduous trees, shall be erected or
maintained within 20 feet of the intersection right-of-way lines so as to
interfere with traffic visibility across the corner. No structure or planting
which is deemed a traffic hazard by the law enforcement officer shall be
permitted in any zone.
   (U)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools are permitted in all districts,
provided the following regulations are met.
      (1)   The pool shall be maintained in a clean and healthful condition in
accordance with district health requirements.
      (2)   No swimming pool shall be emptied in any manner that will cause
water to flow upon or be emptied upon any adjacent land.
      (3)   Every swimming pool constructed or existing below established
surface grade shall be completely enclosed with a permanent substantial fence,
at least six feet in height, and entry shall be by means of a controlled self-
closing gate. No opening shall be designed or maintained as to permit access to
the pool except under the supervision of the owner or with the owner’s
permission.
      (4)   The swimming pool shall not be closer than ten feet to any side or
rear lot line, and no part of any pool shall be constructed within a required
front yard or required side yard.
   (V)   Unclassified uses. Where a proposed use of land or use of existing
structure is not specifically addressed in an existing zoning classification
herein, the Planning Commission, upon proper application, shall determine the
zoning classification most compatible with the proposed use. Thereafter, said
use shall be permitted within the requirements of said district upon compliance
with the regulations thereof and such other restrictions as the Planning
Commission may deem appropriate in the premises. A property owner may appeal
the decision of the Planning Commission to the Board of Appeals. No proposed
use shall be deemed “unclassified” if it is permitted by right, under special
conditions or by special use permit, in any other zoning district described in
this chapter.
   (W)   (1)   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry,
metal, or other manufactured material or combination of materials erected to
enclose or separate areas.
      (2)   (a)   No fence shall be erected prior to the issuance of a zoning
permit by the Zoning Administrator. The permit application shall describe the
fence and include the height, length, location, and material.
         (b)   Right-of-way. Fences shall not be erected within or extend into
a street right-of-way.
         (c)   Fence types can include, but are not limited to, chain link,
picket stockade, wood slat, shadow box and wrought iron. Woven wire fences,
such as poultry netting, field fences, cattle fences, and snow fences are not
permitted. No fence shall be constructed of corrugated metal or corrugated
plastic or similar materials, or include old doors, wood pallets, or other
discarded material.
         (d)   No fence shall contain barbed wire, electric current, broken
glass, sharp edges, or other dangerous elements.
         (e)   Height. A residential fence shall not exceed a height of six
feet, measured from grade to the highest point of the fence. Fences must comply
with visibility controls. Fence height includes any barbed or razor wire
additions that may be allowed on commercial or industrial zoned parcels.
         (f)   Height of fence shall be measured from the ground elevation
prior to any filling, berming, or excavation.
         (g)   Visibility. No solid fence, hedge, tree, or other planted screen
shall be erected or maintained within the clear vision triangle of two streets
in such a way as to obstruct vision between the height of three feet and ten
feet. Fences placed within the clear vision triangle shall comply with the
requirements of this section.
            1.   Clear vision triangle. The clear vision triangle is formed by
the intersecting rights-of-way of two intersecting streets and a line
connecting the rights-of-way at points 25 feet from the point of intersection.
            2.   Fences.
               a.   Fences and walls in front yards of all districts shall not
exceed three and one-half feet in height and shall be of non-solid
construction, such as decorative fencing, which have openings of at least 50%
in each square foot of fencing or wall.
               b.   Solid walls and fences, and those of open construction, not
exceeding six feet in height, are permitted in side and rear yards of all
districts.
         (h)   The finished side, or most visibly attractive side of the
fencing or wall, shall face the exterior property line. Fence posts shall be on
the side of the fence facing the interior of the lot or parcel of land upon
which the fence is constructed. Fences constructed of alternating boards on
opposite sides of the supporting structure are considered as finished on both
sides.
         (i)   Fences shall be maintained to retain their original appearance,
shape, and configuration. Any fence that deteriorates due to a lack of repair
or type of construction shall be deemed a nuisance and be repaired or removed.
The village shall notify the owner of the property on which a fence is located
and specify the time period in which required repairs shall be made or the
fence removed at the owner’s expense.
         (j)   Fences which enclose public or institutional parks, playgrounds,
or school yards shall be an open type not exceeding six feet in height except
as required for recreational purposes such as baseball backstops or similar
purposes.
         (k)   Safety fences for pools and hot tubs shall comply with all
applicable codes including required height.
         (l)   Garden fences, the purpose of which are to keep wildlife out of
personal garden spaces, will be allowed during the growing and harvest seasons
         (m)   Snow fences will be allowed during winter months to control snow
blowing and accumulation of snow in driveways.
         (n)   Front yards and corner lots. Fences placed in a front yard or in
the side yard of a corner lot that abuts a street right-of-way shall be
decorative in nature. Split rail and picket fences are examples of typical
decorative fences. However, any fence that complies with the following
requirements would be considered decorative:
            1.   Height. Decorative fences shall not exceed a height of four
feet, measured from grade to the highest point of the fence;
            2.   Surface. Except as provided in division (g)2. of this section,
decorative fences shall be no more than 50% solid, so as to ensure adequate
visibility at the right-of-way or property line;
            3.   Orientation. Decorative fences shall be installed with the
structural members or framing directed inward toward the property; and
            4.   Material. The use of wire fencing, including, but not limited
to, so-called cyclone or chain link fencing, shall not be allowed on decorative
fences.
         (o)   Fences must be installed on the property owner’s property only.
It is the homeowner's responsibility to determine the location of property
lines and to verify that the fence being installed is within those property
lines. The village does not intervene in property line disputes between
adjacent homeowners or provide survey services
   (X)   Yards. Every lot must provide front yard, rear yard and side yard
spaces as required by its zone district. All front yards must face upon a
dedicated public street.
   (Y)   Recreational parking and storage.
      (1)   Seasonal parking. Parking of a recreational vehicle in a
residential driveway is allowed during the customary season of use. Parking of
out season recreational vehicles is considered in storage and would have to
meet the storage criteria as identified below. Parking of recreational vehicles
shall not obstruct views of pedestrians and/or drivers and shall be 15 feet
from exterior edge of roadway and five feet from interior edge of sidewalk.
      (2)   Storage.
         (a)   Location. The recreational vehicle shall be parked on a lot with
an inhabited dwelling unit as follows:
            1.   Rear yard. Setback distance shall be five feet from the rear
lot line or shall meet the setback requirements of an accessory building.
            2.   Side yard. The recreational vehicle cannot project past the
front wall of the house. Setback distance from the side lot line shall be three
feet or shall meet the setback requirements of an accessory building.
         (b)   Size. The space which can be dedicated to vehicular storage
shall not exceed one-half of the ground floor area of the main building.
      (3)   Condition of recreational vehicle. The recreational vehicle shall
be fully operational and display the current license plate/registration. While
vehicle is parked on a residential lot it cannot be used for living or housing
purposes and shall not have any fixed connections to electricity, water, gas,
or sanitary sewer.
(Ord., § 5.1, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012; Ord., passed 9-12-
2016; Ord., passed 12-12-2016; Ord., passed 7-6-2018; Ord., passed 11-25-2024)
§ 153.081 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
153.060, the following provisions shall also apply in residential districts.
   (A)   Home occupation. Home occupations as defined in this chapter are
permitted within single- family residences or in buildings accessory thereto.
   (B)   Front and rear yard variations. If 40% or more of all the frontage on
one side of a street between two intersection streets has been developed with
residences, the front yard so established shall prevail in the case of one- and
two-family houses, but nothing in this section shall be construed to permit any
new house to be located closer than 20 feet to the front street line, or to
require a front yard setback for new homes of more than 40 feet from the front
street line. Rear yards on existing lots of less than 115 feet depth may be
reduced to 20 feet.
   (C)   Soil removal. All plans for grading, construction or filling for any
subdivision or lot preparation which involves the removal of ground cover
material shall conform to the Sedimentation Control Rules of the County Drain
Commission.
(Ord., § 5.2, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.082 USES NOT PERMITTED IN ANY DISTRICT.
   Uses not permitted in any district include the following:
   (A)   Junk yards;
   (B)   The manufacture of glue or gelatine, acids, acetylene gas, celluloid
or cellulose, pyroxylin plastics, chlorine or bleaching powder, creosote,
explosives, fireworks, matches or fertilizer;
   (C)   The processing of fish or animal offal, or the refining of potash;
   (D)   Primary metal reduction or smelting, steel furnaces, blooming or
rolling mill or uses creating a public nuisance;
   (E)   The wrecking, storage or dismantling of automobiles;
   (F)   The storage of trash except in a designated recycling or processing
station;
   (G)   Any other uses which will constitute a hazard to health, safety or
welfare, are unsightly or in any way create a nuisance or damage adjoining
property; and
   (H)   Land uses and activities which are violative of state, local or
federal law shall be and are hereby prohibited in all zoning districts within
the village.
(Ord., § 5.3, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2011-01, passed - -2011)
§ 153.083 AGRICULTURE ODOR CONTROL.
   Surface application of animal waste as fertilizer shall be achieved in
compliance with generally accepted agricultural management practices as
determined by the State Department of Agriculture, and as permitted under the
State Right To Farm Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 through 287.474.
(Ord., § 5.4, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.084 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses and structures. Lawful nonconforming uses or
structures as defined in §§
153.015 through
153.017 may be continued but shall not be enlarged, extended, added to or
altered unless such enlargement, extension, alteration or addition is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses eliminated and abandonment. Nonconforming uses may
be eliminated in accordance with the provisions of the State Zoning Enabling
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§125.3101 et seq. An otherwise valid nonconforming use
which has been abandoned for six consecutive months or more shall be deemed to
be eliminated and such nonconforming status revoked. Prior to revocation, the
owner of the property whereon such nonconforming use exists shall be given a
written notice of intent to revoke the nonconforming use, and a public hearing
regarding such abandonment shall be noticed as provided in §
153.126.
   (C)   Restoration and repair.
      (1)   Such repairs and maintenance work as required to keep a
nonconforming building or structure in a sound condition may be made.
      (2)   In the event any nonconforming building or structure shall be
damaged by fire, wind or any act of God or the public enemy, it may be rebuilt
or restored within one year, provided the cost of restoration thereof shall not
exceed 60% of the replacement value of such building or structure. Such
determination shall be made by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Change of use. The use of a nonconforming building may be changed to
another nonconforming use if the Board of Appeals finds that such new use would
markedly decrease the degree of nonconformance and would enhance the
desirability of adjacent conforming uses. This shall not be construed to permit
the conversion of a nonconforming use to a prior nonconforming use nor to waive
the other provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Nonconforming lots of record (substandard lots). Any lot platted or
created with the minimum requirements of its zone district may be used in the
following manner.
      (1)   A lot in single ownership at the effective date of this chapter
which contains less than 80% of the zone district width and area requirements
and is not adjacent to lots owned by the same person, family, partnership or
corporation may be sold and or utilized for a single-family dwelling.
      (2)   Any lot which meets 80% or more of the zone district width and area
requirements may be sold and or utilized as a separate lot whether in single
ownership or not; provided, however, that the front yard must conform to the
requirements of the zone district in which said lot is located.
      (3)   Two or more adjacent lots containing less than 80% of the zone
district requirements and owned by the same person, family, partnership or
corporation at the effective date of this chapter shall be redivided to meet at
least 80% of the zone district requirements; provided that the Board may permit
the use or redivision of less than four such lots in conformity with the
established character of existing adjoining homes.
   (F)   Expansion.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses shall not be extended, added to or enlarged.
      (2)   Nonconforming structures shall not be extended, added to or
enlarged, unless such extension, alteration or addition is intended to bring
said structure into conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Nonconforming lots of record (substandard lots) shall not be
extended, added to or enlarged unless each such action results in more
conforming lot sizes.
(Ord., § 5.5, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.085 SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   It is recognized that land uses and their location may possess distinct
characteristics which may affect the community, its residents and its
thoroughfares. It is, therefore, necessary to require submission of a site plan
for review and approval in accordance with guidelines and criteria set forth
herein in order to ensure safe development and to avoid adverse impacts to the
village and its citizens.
   (A)   Site plan review by Zoning Administrator.  All applications for zoning
compliance permits, special use permits, rezoning and variances, as governed in
this chapter, shall first require site plan review by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Site plan approval. Unless otherwise noted herein, all requests for
zoning compliance permits for uses permitted as a matter of right must have
site plan approval by the Zoning Administrator. All requests for special use or
planned unit development approval must have site plan approval by the Village
Planning Commission.
   (C)   Standards for the review of site plans. The site plan is to be
reviewed in order to determine that:
      (1)   The proposed use conforms to the uses permitted either by right or
by special use permit in the respective zoning district;
      (2)   The dimensional arrangement of buildings and structures conforms to
the required yards, setbacks and height restrictions of this chapter, unless
waived by variance granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA);
      (3)   The proposed use conforms to all use and design provisions and
requirements (if any) as found in this chapter for certain specific uses,
unless waived by variance granted by ZBA;
      (4)   There is a proper relationship between the existing and proposed
streets and highways within the vicinity in order to assure the safety and
convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (5)   The proposed on-site buildings, structures and entryways are
situated and designed to minimize adverse effects upon owners and occupants of
adjacent and surrounding properties by providing for adequate design of access/
egress, interior/exterior circulation, storm drainage, erosion, grading,
lighting and parking, as specified by this chapter or any county or state law;
      (6)   As many natural features of the landscape shall be retained as
possible where they can be useful to the development on the site or where they
furnish a barrier or buffer between the project and adjoining properties (used
for dissimilar purposes) or where they assist in preserving the general safety,
health and appearance of the neighborhood, i.e., controlling erosion or the
discharge of storm waters and the like;
      (7)   Any adverse effects of the proposed developments and activities
emanating therefrom upon adjoining residents or owners shall be minimized by
appropriate screening, fencing or landscaping (as provided or required in this
chapter);
      (8)   In the case where the current use is commercial or industrial, not
publicly sewered, and the application is to change, convert, add or expand such
commercial or industrial use, a statement from the Health Department must be
submitted certifying that the present on-site septic disposal system is
adequate to meet the needs of the changed, converted, added or expanded use
after development;
      (9)   All buildings and structures are accessible to emergency vehicles;
and
      (10)   The site plan as approved is consistent with the intent and
purpose of zoning which is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare to encourage the use of lands in accordance with their character and
adaptability; to avoid the overcrowding of population; to lessen congestion on
the public roads and streets; and to reduce hazards of life and property.
   (D)   Conditional approval.
      (1)   Reasonable conditions may be required by the Zoning Administrator
for zoning compliance permits (or for the Planning Commission for special use
permits) with the approval of a site plan. The conditions may include but are
not limited to conditions necessary to ensure that public services and
facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity will be capable of
accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the land use or
activity, to protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and
energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the
use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner. Conditions imposed
shall meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
general welfare and the social and economic well-being of those who will use
the land use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed land use or activity and the community as
a whole;
         (b)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and
purposes which are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
         (c)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter, be
related to the standards established in this chapter for the land use or
activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards.
      (2)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a site plan
shall be recorded in the record of the approval action, and shall remain
unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the designated site plan approval
body and the landowner. A record of conditions which are changed shall be
maintained by the respective approval body.
      (3)   Upon approval of the plan, the designated site plan approval body
shall sign three copies thereof. Two copies shall be kept by the village and
the third shall be returned to the applicant. All subsequent actions relating
to the activity authorized by the approved site development plan shall be
consistent with the plan unless a change conforming with this chapter receives
mutual agreement with the landowner and the respective site plan approval body.
For special uses, refer to §§
153.030 through
153.047.
   (E)   Design standards. Compliance with design standards for certain uses
enumerated in this chapter is required.
   (F)   Final approved site plan. A copy of the final approved site plan (and
all “revised, final approved site plans”) shall be so marked and placed on file
as the officially approved document of the applicant along with copies of any
and all permits requested for the property in question. Approval of “revised,
final site plans” can be made only by the designated body or the official who
first gave final approval.
   (G)   Conformity to approved site plan. Property which is the subject of
site plan approval must be developed in strict compliance with the approved
site plan, and with any revisions, amendments or modifications made thereto. If
construction and development does not conform with such approved plan, the
approval thereof shall be revoked by the Zoning Administrator by written notice
of such revocation posted upon the premises involved and mailed to the
developer at his or her last known address. Upon revocation of such approval,
all further construction activities shall cease upon the site, other than for
the purpose of correcting the violation.
   (H)   Performance bond. The designated site plan approval body is empowered
to require a performance bond or, in its discretion, a certified check be
posted by the applicant in order to ensure that all zoning requirements and
conditions of approval will be completed in accordance with the approved site
development plan.
   (I)   Site plan specifications.
      (1)   An applicant shall submit three copies of all required information.
For single-family and two-family dwellings and additions thereto, a sketch plan
shall be provided showing the following information:
         (a)   Boundaries of the property and existing lot lines drawn to
approximate scale; and
         (b)   The location and use of any existing or proposed building or
structures on the lot.
      (2)   For all other uses, a complete site plan which shall include the
following information shall be submitted:
         (a)   A vicinity area map at a convenient scale, showing proximity to
any railroads, streams, streets and street intersections; the location of the
nearest public roads on all sides; and all public facilities or amenities such
as, schools, firehouses, houses of worship, recreational areas and the like;
         (b)   A map of applicant’s entire subject property and all surrounding
properties at a designated scale; and which shall display the following in
detail (however, applicants for zoning compliance permits for single-family and
two-family residences and agricultural uses need only summarize):
            1.   The name of all owners of record of adjacent property;
            2.   Existing fire, school and other special district boundaries
within 500 feet of the tract, if any;
            3.   Boundaries or property and existing lot lines as shown on the
existing plat or tax map;
            4.   Existing public streets, easements or other reservations of
land;
            5.   Location of all existing structures on the site, as well as
those of adjacent properties within 100 feet of subject lot line;
            6.   The location and use of any existing or proposed building or
structure;
            7.   The proposed location of any use not requiring a structure,
including walkways, benches, fences and recreational facilities;
            8.   Location and design of all driveways, parking and loading
areas, if any;
            9.   Location of all existing and proposed water lines, valves and
hydrants, and all sewer lines, if any;
            10.   Proposed fencing, screening and landscaping; and
            11.   Location of existing watercourses, wooded areas and rock
outcrops, if any.
         (c)   A copy of any covenants or deed restrictions that are intended
to cover all or part of the tract;
         (d)   Where the applicant wishes to develop the project in stages, a
site plan indicating total development shall be presented for approval of the
entire parcel; and
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator (for zoning compliance permits) and the
Planning Commission (for special use permits) may require additional data where
it is warranted due to special conditions of the site or complexity of the
proposed development.
(Ord., § 5.6, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.086 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally. In order that this chapter be flexible and reasonable,
special uses are provided for herein and require special use permits by the
Planning Commission. Conformance to special use standards is required, in
addition to all other requirements of this chapter. All such uses are hereby
declared to possess characteristics of such unique and distinct form that each
specific use shall be considered on an individual case. The granting of a
special use permit does not negate the requirements for any other permit(s).
   (B)   Standards for the consideration of special uses. The following
standards shall be met and the special use in combination with the location
proposed for such use shall not impair the general health, safety and welfare
of the community at large. In general, there must be:
      (1)   Safe access to the property in question and adjacent properties to
fire and police protection;
      (2)   No dangerous or hazardous traffic circulation on and off the site
is created by the proposed use;
      (3)   Transportation design proposals by the applicant if necessary,
which will mitigate any potential traffic impact by the proposed use;
      (4)   An appropriate relationship, similarity and compatibility between
the location and scale of the proposed use to the size and type of uses,
structures and buildings currently existing in the immediate vicinity, and
which collectively comprise the overall character of the area;
      (5)   The special use shall not decrease the market value of adjacent
buildings, uses and structures which are permitted by right under current
zoning, if the proposed use is granted;
      (6)   The proposed use, the nature and intensity of the activities
involved, the size of the site with respect to existing and future streets,
parks and drainage systems will be in harmony with existing or proposed
facilities in the area or district in question;
      (7)   The applicant’s proposed use, its location and intensity and the
height of its buildings, walls, fences and other structures shall not adversely
impact the character of the area;
      (8)   The special use shall not cause any hazards arising from storage
and use of inflammable fluids; and
      (9)   The special use shall not be environmentally objectionable to
nearby properties by reason of noise, fumes, pollution, vibration or lights to
an extent which is more than would be the operations of any use permitted by
right for that district wherein the special use is proposed.
   (C)   Conditional approval. Reasonable conditions may be required with the
approval of a special land use by the Planning Commission. The conditions may
include but are not limited to conditions necessary to ensure that public
service and facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity will be
capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the
land use or activity, to protect the natural resources and energy, to ensure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the use of land in a
socially and economically desirable manner. Conditions imposed shall meet all
of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare of the social and economic well-being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and purposes
which are affected by the proposed use or activity;
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning
ordinance, be related to the standards established in this chapter for the land
use or activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with
those standards; and
      (4)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a special
land use shall be recorded in the record of the approved action, and shall
remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the Planning Commission and
the landowner. The Planning Commission shall maintain a record of conditions
which are changed.
   (D)   Required findings. Before granting a special land use permit in
addition to finding that it meets all of the previously stated requirements,
the Planning Commission must find that:
      (1)   The proposed use will not adversely affect existing adjacent uses
within 500 feet; and
      (2)   There will be no adverse effect upon the public health, safety or
general welfare and that it will not impair the intent of this chapter.
   (E)   Special use permit, site plan approval required; public hearing. Site
plan approval by the Planning Commission is required for all special use
permits. Site plans may be initially reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for
content. A hearing on an application for special use permit shall not be
required unless requested by the approving body, the subject property owner or
an owner or occupant of property located within 300 feet of the subject
property, and notice of the public hearing shall be given pursuant to §
153.126.
   (F)   Time limitation. A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize
only one particular special use and shall expire if the special use shall cease
to function for more than 12 months for any reason, or has not begun within 12
months from date of issuance.
   (G)   Existing violations. No permit shall be issued for a special use for a
property where there is an existing violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Basis for decision in writing. It is further provided that in granting
or denying a special use permit, the Planning Commission shall specify in the
written decision the particular reason relied upon and its relation to the
proposed one.
   (I)   Appeals. Any and all appeals regarding a decision or condition imposed
upon a special use applicant must be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals within
30 days from the date of decision or imposed condition.
   (J)   Uses authorized by special use permit. The following uses are
authorized by special permit: automobile service stations, vehicular scale
areas, repair shops and garages.
(Ord. 21, passed 8-2-1993; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.087 MOBILE HOMES ON PRIVATE LOTS OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile homes on private lots outside mobile home parks are subject to the
following requirements and conditions.
   (A)   No person shall place or occupy any mobile home as a dwelling within
the village until a building permit has been issued, and upon completion, a
certificate of occupancy has been issued pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter, which certificate shall indicate satisfactory compliance with all
requirements of this chapter and the Village Building Code.
   (B)   The mobile home placement and the property upon which it will be
located shall meet all the requirements of this chapter relating to uses, size
of premises, floor area and yard setback requirements specified for single-
family residences for the particular zoning district in which the premises are
situated.
   (C)   The floor to ceiling height within the living unit shall not be less
than seven and one-half feet.
   (D)   The minimum width of any exterior side of the living unit shall not be
less than 24 feet.
   (E)   The mobile home shall be installed pursuant to manufacturer’s
instructions, to a permanent foundation and be secured to the foundation by an
anchoring system or device in compliance with rules of the State Mobile Home
Commission.
      (1)   In addition, the mobile home shall have the wheels and tongue, used
for transport, removed from the chassis and the underside or chassis shall be
enclosed by a wall of the same perimeter dimensions as the mobile home, which
is constructed of such materials and type as required in the applicable
building code for single-family dwellings.
      (2)   All construction required herein shall be commenced only after a
building permit has been obtained in accordance with the Building Code in
effect in the village.
   (F)   Construction of, and all plumbing, electrical apparatus and insulation
within and connected to said mobile home shall be of a type and quality
conforming to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 C.F.R. § 3280) and as from
time to time amended.
   (G)   The mobile home unit must be aesthetically compatible in design and
appearance with conventional on-site built residential homes in the vicinity
according to the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Compatibility with homes in the vicinity shall mean within the
zoning district in which the unit(s) are being placed.
      (2)   The dwelling unit shall have a roof with a pitch of at least 4 in
12 and said roof shall meet or exceed all roof snow load and strength
requirements as prescribed by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards.
      (3)   The unit shall have a roof drainage system capable of collecting
roof surface water runoff to points of concentration along the sides that
direct water away from the unit’s foundations and/or footings.
      (4)   The unit shall have two exterior points of entry, one in the front
and another either in the rear or on a side.
      (5)   The entries to the mobile home shall be equipped, as required by
differences between the floor elevation and the surrounding grade, with steps
or porches built in compliance with Village Building Codes.
      (6)   The exterior finish and materials will be reasonably similar in
both type and appearance to those of residences in the vicinity as defined in
division (G)(1) above to the extent that the exterior appearance is not
significantly discernable as different from other conventionally built homes in
the zoning district in which it is located.
      (7)   All additions to the original unit must be of equivalent
construction and quality with the originally placed principal structure
including foundations, or the adopted Building Code in effect if conventionally
constructed on site.
      (8)   All units and manufactured additions thereto shall bear the HUD
seal indicating compliance with HUD standard (24 C.F.R. § 3280).
      (9)   The determination of compliance with the minimum standards of
aesthetic and design compatibility as required herein will, in the first
instance, be made by the Zoning Official of the village upon review of the
plans (floor and elevation drawings) submitted with the application for a
building permit.
      (10)   The mobile home shall be connected to potable water and sanitary
sewage disposal facilities approved by the health agency having jurisdiction
and if public water and/or sewer facilities is/are available to the premises,
said mobile home shall be connected thereto.
      (11)   As used herein, the term MOBILE HOME shall mean a movable or
portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its own chassis and designed for
permanent year-round living as a single-family dwelling; provided, however,
that the term shall not include motor homes, campers, recreational vehicles
(whether licensed or not as motor vehicles) or other transportation structures
designed for temporary use and which are not designed primarily for permanent
residence and connection to sanitary sewage, electrical power and potable water
utilities.
      (12)   Any party aggrieved by any decision of the official in the
interpretation and application of any provision of this section regulating
placement of mobile homes on private lots outside of mobile home parks shall
file an appeal with the Board of Appeals.
(Ord., § 5.7, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.088 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS AND USERS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and structures shall only be located in the rear
yard of an interior lot and within a side yard of a corner lot. On a through
lot, an accessory structure may be located in the yard behind the dwelling, but
shall meet the front yard setback requirement for the zoning district. Detached
accessory buildings and structures up to 1,500 square feet in size shall be no
closer than six feet from any lot line. Detached accessory buildings and
structures greater than 1,500 square feet shall be no closer than 12 feet from
any lot line. In both instances, the setback is measured from the closest point
of the building.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall be permitted in conjunction with Table 1,
Residential Accessory Building and Structures:
   Table 1 - Residential Accessory Building and Structures
 
                     Maximum number of   Maximum Building Size Maximum Building
Lot Size             Accessory Buildings (square feet)         Height (feet to
                                                               highest point)
10,000 square feet   1                   720                   16
or less
Greater than 10,000
square feet, up to 1 1                   1,200                 20
acre
Greater than 1 acre  2                   3,000                 24
up to 2 acres
Greater than 2 acres 4                   6,000                 28
 
   (C)   One additional storage shed shall be permitted for a residential
district or use not to exceed 120 square feet in area.
(Ord., passed 12-12-2016; Ord., passed 2-13-2023)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 153.100 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES.
   In addition to the regulations set forth in §§
153.030 through
153.047 and
153.060 through
153.069, the following are specific regulations and design standards for uses
listed in said articles, and shall be the minimum governing requirements for
the protection of the public health, safety and general welfare of the
community.
(Ord., § 6.1, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.101 MOBILE HOME PARKS AND MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   In recognition of the growing trend toward mobile home parks and
subdivisions, and the need for well-located and properly developed areas to
accommodate them, regulations are hereby prescribed for such use with
appropriate construction and site development standards to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of the residents of such areas, as well as the
residents of adjoining and neighboring premises.
   (A)   Eligibility. The site of a mobile home park must be in accordance with
the following site standards.
      (1)   The site must be located within the R-3 Zoning District.
      (2)   The site must be a minimum of ten acres in land area. However, an
owner of a proposed site which has less than the minimum required area may
apply if the subject land is adjacent to a lawfully approved or constructed
mobile home park.
      (3)   A special use permit is required from the Planning Commission in
accordance with the procedures established in this chapter.
   (B)   Special conditions and limitations for mobile home parks. Except as
may be superseded by state law or regulation, all mobile home parks shall
comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Each mobile home park shall have a paved access street that enters
from a public street and shall provide a continuous route of travel throughout
the park.
      (2)   Each mobile home park may have a maximum of six mobile homes per
gross acre.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be skirted within 60 days, weather
permitting, following their placement within the mobile home park with standard
skirting material or material of equal quality for both aesthetic purposes and
to lessen heat loss and shall meet all requirements of the State Mobile Home
Commission.
      (4)   All public and private utilities shall be installed underground.
      (5)   Each mobile home in a mobile home park shall be provided with
public water and sewer service. The design of such water and sewer systems
shall be approved by the Village Engineer and the State Department of Public
Health.
      (6)   The business of selling new and/or used mobile homes as a
commercial operation in connection with the operation of a mobile home
development is prohibited. New or used mobile homes located on lots within the
mobile home development to be used and occupied within the mobile home park may
be sold by a licensed dealer and/or broker, or by a resident of the mobile home
development.
(Ord., § 6.2, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.102 DESIGN STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS FOR CERTAIN USES.
   (A)   Signs and billboards.
      (1)   General regulations. The following regulations apply to signs in
all zoning districts.
         (a)   No person shall place, maintain or display within the village
any sign, signal, marking, device, blinking, oscillating or rotating light or
lights, decoration or banner which is or purports to be or is in imitation of
or resembles or which can be mistaken for a traffic control device or railroad
sign or signal, which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which
hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic control
device or any railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain
nor shall any public authority permit upon any street any traffic sign or
signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
         (b)   No person shall place, maintain or display along any street any
blinking, oscillating or rotating light or lights sufficiently similar in color
and design that may be mistaken for the distinguishing lights authorized by law
for emergency vehicles or that creates a hazard for the safety of drivers using
said highways.
         (c)   No permanent or temporary business sign, billboard or other type
of permanent or temporary sign shall be constructed, erected or attached to or
painted upon a building prior to the issuance of a permit for such a sign by
the Zoning Administrator.
         (d)   All signs shall be maintained in good condition and repair. All
nonconforming signs may be maintained until such time as the sign structure
must be replaced, after which the sign shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter. This division (A)(1)(d) is not intended to prevent the painting or re-
lettering of a sign.
          (e)   Tourist-oriented directional signs provided such signs are
otherwise permitted by the State Transportation Department pursuant to 1996 PA
299 as amended.
      (2)   Signs in residential districts. In all residential districts, only
the following shall be permitted:
         (a)   One non-illuminated professional or nameplate sign not more than
288 square inches in area;
         (b)   One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to an election, or
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed, not to exceed eight
square feet in total area. Such sign shall be removed upon completion of a
purchase or lease agreement. Election and campaign signs shall be removed
within 48 hours of the election;
         (c)   A sign of not more than 35 square feet identifying the name and
activities of a permitted nonresidential use when located on the same lot as
the permitted use; and
         (d)   No sign permitted in any residential district shall be erected
closer to any street or road than half the setback required for the principal
building to be erected on said lot, provided that a nameplate or mailbox sign
not more than 72 square inches in area may be placed anywhere within the front
yard.
      (3)   Signs in the C-1 and C-2 Commercial Districts.
         (a)   Only signs pertaining to the use or occupancy of the building
structure or premises to which such signs are attached are permitted in the
commercial districts.
         (b)   Billboards are specifically prohibited in these districts.
         (c)   The total area of all signs located on a lot shall not exceed
100 square feet in size.
         (d)   All signs must be attached flat against the building, except
that one freestanding or pylon sign may be permitted, not to exceed 35 square
feet in area, provided said freestanding sign is located at least five feet
from the street right-of-way.
         (e)   A sign facing residentially zoned property shall not be located
within 50 feet of a residential lot line.
         (f)   Signs shall not project above the roof line or parapet wall
around the roof.
         (g)   Gasoline service stations, automotive sales areas and automotive
repair shops may display in addition to the foregoing signs, the following
signs which are deemed customary and necessary to their respective business:
            1.   One freestanding or pylon sign, provided that such sign shall
not exceed 35 square feet in area on a side;
            2.   Two temporary signs located inside the property line
advertising special seasonal servicing or gas pricing, provided that each such
sign does not exceed nine square feet in area;
            3.   Directional signs or lettering displayed over individual
entrance doors or bays;
            4.   Customary lettering insignias which are a structural part of a
gasoline pump island;
            5.   A non-illuminated credit card sign; and
            6.   The Planning Commission may authorize the display of temporary
banners or signs sponsored by a nonprofit organization advertising a community
event, even though said sign or banner may not conform to the regulations of
this district. Temporary signs shall be removed within five days of the
completion of the event.
      (4)   Signs in the Industrial District. The following signs are permitted
in the Industrial District:
         (a)   Any sign permitted, as regulated, in the commercial districts;
and
         (b)   Billboards are permitted, provided they shall not exceed 300
square feet in area. No billboard shall be erected closer than 300 feet to any
other billboard. The yard requirements for a principal building shall be met.
   (B)   Home occupation requirements.
      (1)   Applications for approval of home occupations shall provide the
following information:
         (a)   A written description of the nature of the occupation;
         (b)   Number and type of vehicles involved;
         (c)   Hours of operation;
         (d)   A site drawing showing the structures to be used;
         (e)   Number of employees; and
         (f)   Noise level.
      (2)   All activities shall be conducted within the dwelling or accessory
buildings.
      (3)   No more than three persons who are not residents of the dwelling
shall be employed on premises.
      (4)   No more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling shall be devoted
to such home occupation.
      (5)   Such home occupation shall not require external alterations of
construction features not customary to dwelling.
      (6)   Home occupation shall be compatible with residential uses or same
and/or adjacent lots.
(Ord., § 6.3, passed 8-5-1991; Ord., passed 5-14-2018)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.103 LOCATION OF ADULT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Uses authorized by special use permit. Uses authorized by special
permit include the following: adult motion picture theaters; bookstores;
massage parlors, under provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Special uses that may be permitted; site development requirements for
adult motion picture theaters; bookstores; massage parlors. The following land
and structures used may be permitted within the particular zone districts
cited, provided the applicable specified conditions established in this
subchapter are complied with.
   (C)   Purpose.  The purpose and intent of this section is to regulate the
location of, but not to exclude, adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters and massage parlors in the
village, by preventing the concentration of such used in one area. This
regulation is done with the understanding that the village recognizes that
there are some uses which, because of their nature, have serious objectionable
operational characteristics, particularly if several of them are concentrated
under circumstances having a delirious effect upon adjacent resident and
commercial areas. The village recognizes that the regulation of such uses is
necessary to ensure that adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting
or downgrading of a surrounding residential neighborhood.
   (D)   Location of uses. No building or land, and no building hereafter
erected, converted or structurally altered, shall be used as an adult
bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater or
massage parlor within 400 feet of the property line of any residentially zoned
district as defined in this chapter or within 1,000 feet of any public school
or public facility or religious site of assembly, worship and school. No adult
bookstore, adult theater or massage parlor shall be located within 450 feet of
any other establishment known as an adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult mini-motion picture theater or massage parlor.
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment which excludes minors, as defined in
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.51 et seq. and has, as a substantial or significant portion of
its stock in trade, books, periodicals, magazines, pamphlets, pictures,
photographs, motion picture films and/or video tapes which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
nudity, sado-masochistic abuse or sexual conduct.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment, whether in a completely
enclosed building or not, which excludes minors, as defined in M.C.L.A. §§
722.51 et seq., and offers, for an admission fee, membership fee or other
valuable consideration, the viewing of motion picture films, pictures or
photographs, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
nudity, sadomasochistic abuse or sexual conduct, during more than 25% of its
operating hours.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or any portion of
a building or any portion of a building from which minors, as defined in
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.51 et seq., are excluded, and which is used for presenting
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual conduct, nudity or sado-masochistic abuse, by
any means of display, including without limitation by motion picture,
mechanical amusement devices, television (including videotape or closed
circuit) or live performances for observation by patrons therein.
      MASSAGE PARLOR. Any establishment which offers services in the form of
massages, health rubs, rub down, stress stroking or other forms of manual
manipulation, singly or in combination, to club members or to the public for
charge. MASSAGE PARLOR does not include:
         (a)   Activities in hospitals, nursing homes, medial clinics or the
office or quarters of physician, surgeons, chiropractors or osteopaths;
         (b)   Exercise clubs exclusively for members or clientele where the
services do not include any form of massage;
         (c)   Exercise or health clubs or health spas where aerobic physical
fitness and physiologic muscle joint improvement activities occupy 90% of the
program and also concurrently uses massage therapy as a form of physical
therapy administered by a certified and licensed therapist; or
         (d)   Barbershops or beauty parlors.
      NUDITY. Uncovered or less than opaquely covered post-pubertal human male
or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks.
      OFFERED FOR SALE. Offered in exchange for money, membership fee or any
other valuable consideration.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC. Flagellation or torture by or upon a human.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Any of the following actual or simulated acts: human
sexual intercourse (homosexual or heterosexual), human or animal masturbation,
bestiality, fellatio, cunnilingus, human excretory functions, homosexuality or
lesbianism.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   Lot area and width. No minimum required.
      (2)   Site development plan. Approval by the Planning Commission is
required by all uses.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force 20 days
after its adoption.
(Ord. 21, passed 8-2-1993)
Cross-reference:
   Special use permits, see also §
153.086
§ 153.104 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Master plan policy statement. The following policy statement will be
included within the village master plan:
      (1)   Wellhead protection. The village relies exclusively on groundwater
for its drinking water source. In response to the concern over safety of public
water supplies, the city has instituted a Wellhead Protection Program (WHPP).
WHPPs develop long-term strategies aimed at protecting community drinking water
supplies. The purpose of developing a WHPP is to identify the Wellhead
Protection Area (WHPA) and develop long-term strategies aimed at safeguarding
the area from contamination. A WHPA is defined as the surface and subsurface
areas surrounding a water well or well field, which supplies a public water
system, and through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and
reach the water well or well field within a ten-year time-of-travel. The State
of Michigan requires communities to identify seven elements to be included in
the WHPP. These elements along with a brief description are below.
      (2)   Roles and responsibilities. Identify individuals responsible for
the development, implementation, and long-term maintenance of the local WHPP.
      (3)   WHPA delineation. Determine that area which contributes groundwater
to the public water supply wells.
      (4)   Contaminant source inventory. Identify known and potential sites of
contamination within the WHPA and include in a contaminant source inventory
list and map.
      (5)   Management strategies. Provide mechanisms which will reduce the
risk of existing and potential sources of contamination from reaching the
public water supply wells or well field.
      (6)   Contingency planning. Develop an effective contingency plan in case
of a water supply emergency.
      (7)   Siting of new wells. Provide information on existing groundwater
availability, the ability of the PWSS to meet present and future demands and
the vulnerability of the existing wells to contamination.
      (8)   Public education and outreach. Generate community awareness in the
WHPP by focusing on public education and the dissemination of WHPP information.
   (B)   It is the intent of this master plan to encourage protection of the
village's public water supply wells through the establishment of a Wellhead
Protection Zoning Ordinance. Within this section, zoning regulations will limit
land uses and practices that may degrade groundwater quality within and outside
the WHPA.
   (C)   The most significant sources of water supply contamination are
landfills, surface impoundment areas, subsurface percolation from septic tanks
and cesspools, open dumps, uncapped or improperly capped abandoned wells,
injection wells and underground storage tanks. These uses represent both point
and non-point contamination sources.
   (D)   Point source is the term used to describe contaminants, which
originate in the immediate area of the well or tap. All of the above, if
located in close proximity to the water supply source, are examples of
potential point source polluters. Contaminants from these uses may seep
directly down through the soil to the water source.
   (E)   Non-point source contamination is much more difficult to control
because the cause of the problem may potentially be located a considerable
distance from the well. This type of contamination is caused by pollutants that
filter into an underground aquifer and then migrate slowly through the
groundwater aquifer to off-site wells and water sources. Prevention of this
type of contamination must involve a collective effort on the part of property
owners and local officials from a large geographic area. It is the
recommendation of this plan that all existing and future wells be protected
from both point and non-point source contamination to the greatest degree
possible. It is also the intent of this plan to recognize the importance of
groundwater protection within the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
RENEWABLE ENERGY, WIND AND SOLAR POWER SYSTEMS
§ 153.110 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this subchapter is to provide zoning regulations
to guide the installation and operation of wind and solar renewable energy
systems to be used primarily on site and to accommodate sustainable energy
production from renewable energy sources.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-10-2019)
§153.111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings, unless the context in which they are used
specifically indicates otherwise:
   AMBIENT. The sound pressure level exceeded 90% of the time or L90.
   ANEMOMETER TOWER. A freestanding tower containing instrumentation such as
anemometers that is designed to provide present moment wind data for use by the
supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system which is an accessory
land use to a utility grid wind energy system.
   ANSI. The American National Standards Institute.
   DB(A). The sound pressure level in decibels. It refers to the “a” weighted
scale defined by ANSI. A method for weighting the frequency spectrum to mimic
the human ear.
   DECIBEL. The unit of measure used to express the magnitude of sound pressure
and sound intensity.
   IEC. The International Electro Technical Commission.
   ISO. The International Organization for Standardization.
   ON SITE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A land use for generating electric power from
wind that is an accessory to a legal principal use and intended to primarily
serve the needs of electric power consumer at that site.
   NET METERING. An arrangement by which excess energy generated by a renewable
energy system is distributed back to the electrical utility grid.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICE. A system of components that generates electric energy
from incident sunlight by means of the photovoltaic effect, whether the device
is able to store the electric energy produced for later use.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that generates energy from natural
resources such as sunlight, wind, and geothermal heat. As used in this
subchapter, the term RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM refers to wind energy systems and
solar energy systems only.
   ROTOR. An element of a wind energy system that acts as a multi-bladed
airfoil assembly, thereby extracting through rotation kinetic energy directly
from the wind.
   SHADOW FLICKER. Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blades of a wind energy system casting shadows on the ground and stationary
objects, such as, but not limited to, a window at a dwelling.
   SOLAR ARRAY. Any number of photovoltaic devices connected to provide a
single output of electric energy of other energy.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute and/or store energy for on-site consumption of utility power.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-INTEGRATED. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of a building.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-MOUNTED. A solar energy system affixed to
either the principal or accessory structure.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is not
attached to another structure and is affixed to the ground or that is attached
to an antenna, light pole or other utility facility.
   SOLAR FARM (LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM). A commercial utility solar energy
system where the primary use of the land is to generate electric energy or
other energy by converting sunlight, whether by photovoltaic devices or other
conversion technology, for the sale, delivery or consumption of the generated
energy with a capacity greater than one megawatt (MW).
   SOUND PRESSURE. An average rate at which sound energy is transmitted through
a unit area in a specified direction. The pressure of the sound measured at a
receiver.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure mapped to a logarithmic scale and
reported in decibels (dB).
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to reduce on-site consumption of utility power.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-10-2019)
§153.112 WIND AND SOLAR RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General requirements. The requirements set forth in this subchapter
shall govern the construction and installation or installation of all renewable
energy systems.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter are intended to
establish parameters by which solar energy systems may be installed in the
Village of Pewamo. Additional renewable energy installations not addressed
explicitly herein may be authorized, subject to compliance with the applicable
building codes and standards of the Village of Pewamo and Ionia County.
   (C)   Use. Except as authorized by the Village Planning Committee and
Village Council for public utility purpose, a renewable energy system shall be
accessory to the principal permitted use of a site.
   (D)   Approvals. Approval granted to an individual property owner for a
renewable energy system under the provisions of this subchapter shall not be
construed to bar owners or tenants of any adjacent property from ordinary or
permitted building, landscaping or other accessory improvements, even if such
improvements may diminish the function of said renewable energy system.
   (E)   Permitting and installation.
      (1)   Village of Pewamo and Ionia County building permits are required
prior to the installation of any renewable energy system. Before building
permits are issued, the following shall be submitted to the Village of Pewamo
and Ionia County building department:
         (a)   A site plan showing:
            1.   Name, address and phone number of the property owner;
            2.   Property lines;
            3.   All structures;
            4.   Setback lines;
            5.   Location of all solar panels and associated equipment, or wind
power system; and
            6.   Location of the electrical disconnect for the solar energy
system or wind power system.
         (b)   A letter or other evidence that the local electric utility has
been informed of the customer's and property owner's intent to install a
customer-owned solar energy system or wind power system.
         (c)   A letter or other evidence that the site plan has been submitted
to the local fire protection department for comment.
         (d)   A letter or other evidence that proper warning signage has been
located to inform utilities of solar panels or wind system that are present on
site.
      (2)   The owner of a renewable energy system shall ensure that it is
installed and maintained in compliance with applicable building and safety
codes adopted by the village, Ionia County and any other state or federal
agency of applicable jurisdiction.
      (3)   All wiring associated with a renewable energy system shall be
underground and contained within a raceway that complements the building
materials of the principal structure.
   (F)   Interconnection with public utilities - electric.
      (1)   Energy produced by a renewable energy system shall be utilized on
site, except for net metering as authorized by the Village of Pewamo and other
applicable regulatory agencies required by law.
      (2)   The interconnection of any renewable energy system to the electric
distribution grid shall be in accordance with applicable regulatory agencies
required by law.
   (G)   Illumination of a renewable energy system is prohibited.
   (H)   No signage or attention-getting device is permitted on any renewable
energy system.
   (I)   Screening - roofs. There shall be no required physical screening for
renewable energy systems installed on roofs.
   (J)   Screening - grade. There shall be required physical screening for
renewable energy systems installed on grade. Screening shall comply with the
privacy fence division, §153.080(W).
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-10-2019)
§153.113 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   The following regulations and conditions, which are applicable to all
districts to provide for safe, effective and efficient regulation of wind
energy conversion systems (WECS), shall apply, whether they are tower mounted
or structure mounted.
   (A)   Small wind energy conversion systems (small WECS). The following
standards shall apply to all small WECS as defined herein.
      (1)   Small WECS are permitted, subject to conditions, in zoning
districts regulated by the Village of Pewamo Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   A zoning compliance certificate and all applicable permits required
by the Village of Pewamo and Ionia County Building Department are required
prior to construction (installation) of a small WECS.
      (3)   For all zoning districts, the total height of a tower mounted small
WECS, which includes the tower and the rotor blade, shall not be greater than
35 feet. The total height shall be measured from the ground level the base of
the tower to the maximum vertical extension of the blade.
      (4)   The total height for a structure mounted vertical axis small WECS
shall not exceed 15 feet as measured from the highest point of the adjacent
roof or structure to which it is attached, excluding chimneys, antennae or
other similar features.
      (5)   The minimum site area for a tower mounted small WECS shall be equal
to the minimum lot area requirements of the zoning district in which the small
WECS is located plus any additional lot area required to meet setback
requirements of this section.
      (6)   The minimum site area for a structure mounted small WECS shall be
equal to the minimal lot requirements of the zoning district in which it is
located.
      (7)   For structure mounted small WECS, documentation shall be submitted
by a licensed professional engineer, with details pertaining to the structure's
ability to sustain all loads imposed.
      (8)   Setbacks. A tower mounted small WECS shall be set back a distance
equal to one and one-half times the height of the tower measured from the top
of its blade in vertical position from all adjoining property lines, easements,
or right-of-way, and no part of a small WECS may extend into any adjacent yard
or property unless an easement has been recorded for that purpose. A structure
mounted small WECS shall meet the setback requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located.
      (9)   Ground clearance. A tower mounted small WECS must have a minimum
ground clearance of 20 feet between the lowest extension of the rotor blade and
the average grade at the base of the structure.
      (10)   Noise; sound pressure level. The sound pressure level shall not
exceed 55 dB(A) measured at the property line or the lease unit boundary,
whichever is farther from the source of the noise. The sound pressure level
shall not be exceeded for more than three minutes in any hour of the day. If
the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard shall be
ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).
      (11)   Wind turbine structural plans. A building permit application for a
small WECS shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine
structure, including the tower, base, and footings. If structure-mounted, an
engineering analysis demonstrating compliance with the State Building Code and
certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.
      (12)   WECS removal. The WECS owner shall advise the Village of Pewamo of
discontinuance of WECS use or abandonment within 60 days of such discontinuance
or abandonment. Any WECS that is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of such WECS shall remove
the same within 90 days of receipt of notice from the Village of Pewamo
notifying the owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned WECS
within said 90 days shall be grounds for the Village of Pewamo to remove the
WECS at the owner's or property owner's expense. With the exception of time
period specified in this section, the process for abatement and removal of an
abandoned WECS shall conform to the process, including recovery of the
village's costs and penalties, set forth in Chapter 154, Blight.
      (13)   Structures mounted small WECS. Structures mounted small WECS shall
meet the following additional requirement: structures mounted to small WECS
shall not be attached to that portion of a structure facing a public road, but
may be attached to principal or accessory structures providing all other
requirements of this section are met, shall not utilize guy wire supports, and
may not contain commercial advertising.
      (14)   Additional towers or structures. There may be more than one tower
and/or structures mounted small WECS systems per lot or parcel if the total
combined rated output of all turbines on the site does not exceed ten (KW) and
the additional units are permitted by a special land use approval; and provided
that such additional tower or structure meet all of the requirements of this
chapter.
      (15)   The zoning compliance certificate permit application for any small
WECS must include:
         (a)   A project summary, including:
            1.   A general description of the project, including its
approximate name plate capacity, the potential equipment manufacturer(s), type
(s) of the WECS, number of WECS and capacity of WECS, the maximum height and
diameter of the WECS rotors, a professional analysis of the shadow flicker
impact, the general location of the project; and
            2.   A description of the applicant, owner and operator including
their respective business entities.
         (b)   The name(s), address(es) and phone number(s) of the applicant(s)
and property owner(s);
         (c)   A description for the location of the WECS tower and/or
structure mounted system and the location or property lines of adjoining
property owners;
         (d)   A site plan for the installation of the WECS, showing location
of each WECS tower, primary structures, property lines, setback lines, height,
ancillary equipment and layout of all structures within geographical boundaries
of any applicable setbacks;
         (e)   All required studies, reports, certification and approvals
demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this subchapter; and
         (f)   Any other information required to demonstrate compliance with
this subchapter or any other applicable laws and regulations of the village,
county, state or federal government.
      (16)   Guy wires, advertising, and use of non-reflective surfaces and
neutral colors. Small WECS system shall not utilize guy wires for support,
shall not contain or display commercial advertising, and shall utilize non-
reflective surfaces and neutral colors to the maximum extent feasible.
   (B)   Large wind energy conversion systems (large WECS). The following
standards shall apply to all large wind energy conversion systems (WECS) as
defined herein:
      (1)   Large WECS require a special land use permit, a zoning compliance
certificate, and a building permit prior to construction/installation and
operation;
      (2)   Large WECS are permitted by special land use only in the (L-1)
Light Industrial Zoning Districts only;
      (3)   The application for a special land use permit must be accompanied
by:
         (a)   An evaluation prepared by certified professionals with a
specialty in large WECS of the likely impact of the proposed WECS in the
following areas:
            1.   Noise and vibration impact on any property line;
            2.   Potential impact on wildlife, including native and migrating
birds;
            3.   Shadow flicker and glare impact on adjacent properties; and
            4.   Aesthetic impact of the WECS on adjoining properties.
         (b)   The following information must be detailed to supplement the
site plan required for a special use permit application:
            1.   Property lines, dimension, acreage and contours with
appropriate intervals for site evaluation;
            2.   Location and elevation of the proposed large WECS;
            3.   Locations and dimensions of all existing structures and uses
on the lot within 300 feet of the system;
            4.   Height of any structures or trees over 35 feet with a 500 foot
radius, on-site of the proposed large WECS; and
            5.   Surrounding land use and structures, irrespective of height,
within 500 feet of the large WECS location.
         (c)   Additional information required for application for special land
use permit:
            1.   Standard drawings of the structural components of the large
WECS, including structures, tower, base and footings. A registered professional
engineer shall certify drawings and any necessary calculations demonstrating
that the system complies with all applicable local, state and federal building
structural and electrical codes, and regulations;
            2.   Certification from a registered professional engineer or
qualified person that the rotor and overspeed control have been designed for
the proposed use on the proposed site; and
            3.   Registered professional engineer's certification of the design
and safety for the proposed tower to withstand any high wind speeds, and that
the large WECS can be operated successfully on the subject property.
      (4)   Setbacks. A large WECS shall maintain a minimum setback of 1½ times
the total height of the tower to the top of the blade in its vertical position
from any property line, easements, or right-of-way, and no part of a large WECS
may extend into any adjacent yard or property unless an easement has been
recorded for the purpose.
      (5)   Dimensions.
         (a)   A large WECS shall not exceed a total tower and blade height of
100 feet.
         (b)   In all cases, the minimum height of the lowest position of the
large WECS blade shall be at least 30 feet above the ground.
         (c)   An approved large WECS is exempt from the height restrictions of
the zoning district in which it is located.
         (d)   A large WECS shall be located on a minimum site area of one acre
or larger plus any additional area required to meet the setback requirements of
this section.
      (6)   Noise. The sound pressure for on-site use of small or large WECS
shall not exceed 55 dB(A) at the property line closest to the wind energy
system. The sound pressure may be exceeded during short term events such as
utility outages and/or severe wind storms. If the ambient sound pressure level
exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).
      (7)   General siting and design standards. A large WECS shall meet all
federal, state and local aviation regulation requirements, which shall include,
but not be limited to, air traffic warning lights or other marking lights, and
shall be positioned to avoid undue visual impact on neighboring properties.
      (8)   Safety measures.
         (a)   Each large WECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic
controls to limit the rotation or speed of the rotor blade so it does not
exceed the design limits or the rotor.
         (b)   Each large WECS shall be properly grounded to safety sustain
natural lightning strikes.
         (c)   A large WECS shall not include any sign or advertising of any
kind, except for an informational sign no larger than two square feet in area
posted at the base of the tower, which shall contain the following information:
            1.   “WARNING; HIGH VOLTAGE”;
            2.   Manufacture's name;
            3.   Operator's name;
            4.   Emergency telephone number; and
            5.   Emergency shutdown procedures.
      (9)   Radio and television interference. A large WECS shall be designed
and constructed so as not to cause radio and television interference.
      (10)   Removal of a large WECS. The large WECS owner shall advise the
village of the discontinuance of WECS use or abandonment within 60 days of
discontinuance. Any WECS that is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of such WECS shall remove
the same within 90 days of receipt of notice from the village notifying the
owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned WECS within said 90
days shall be grounds for the village to remove the WECS at the owner's
expense. The village may, as a condition of special use permit approval,
require a financial guarantee in the form of a performance bond, cash deposit
or irrevocable letter of credit or provide sufficient funds for the removal of
an abandoned WECS and facilities associated therewith.
      (11)   Inspections. The village shall have the right at any reasonable
time to provide same-day notice to the applicant to inspect the premises on
which the WECS are located. The village may hire one or more consultants with
approval from the applicant to assist with inspections at the applicants or
project owner's expense. Inspection must be coordinated with, and escorted by,
applicant's operations staff at the WECS to ensure compliance with the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), NESC and all other
applicable safety guidelines.
      (12)   Training emergency response. Applicant will provide firefighter
WECS safety awareness training annually for the local fire department, and
shall assist in developing an emergency action plan suited for all emergency
incidents. The applicant shall coordinate at least annually a walk-through of
the WECS with the Village Fire Chief and members of the fire department to
develop the emergency action plan that includes, but is not limited to, the
location of any and all emergency shut off switches, lockout locations, and
other safety and emergency response requirements as determined by the Village
Fire Chief or Fire Marshal. The cost for WECS safety awareness training and the
emergency action plan shall be at the applicant’s or owner’s expense.
   (C)   Utility scale wind energy conversion systems. Utility scale wind
systems are not permitted by the Village of Pewamo Zoning Ordinance.
   (D)   Wind energy monitoring station. A wind energy monitoring station is
permitted by right in all zoning districts, shall not exceed the maximum height
permitted for any potential WECS permitted in that zoning district, shall
require a building permit if required by the Village of Pewamo and Ionia County
Building Department, and shall be removed within 14 months from the
installation date.
   (E)   Construction codes, towers, interconnection standards. All WECS (small
or large) shall comply with all applicable state construction and electrical
codes and local building permit requirements. WECS shall comply with state and
federal regulations and laws, including the Federal Aviation Administration
regulations and requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act, and the Michigan
Tall Structures Act.
   (F)   Maintenance and removal of renewable energy systems.
      (1)   Renewable energy systems must always be maintained in good repair
and operable condition, including compliance with all standards in applicable
building and technical codes to ensure structural and technical integrity of
such facilities, except for maintenance and repair outages. If a system becomes
inoperable or damaged, operations must cease and be promptly remedied.
      (2)   If the village determines that a renewable energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this code, the Village of Pewamo shall
provide written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall
have a period of 90 days from the date of notification to either restore the
renewable energy system to operation or remove the system. The Zoning
Administrator or other person designated by the Village Council may grant
extensions to the owner of a renewable energy system to remedy damaged systems
upon a showing of good cause, such as any circumstance or event beyond the
reasonable control of the owner of a renewable energy system, including the
following events:
         (a)   Explosion, fire, tornado, lightning, flood, unusually severe
weather, natural disaster, epidemic, any other act of God, and any other
similar circumstance; or
         (b)   Failure of any third party supplier.
      (3)   In the event such renewable energy system is not brought into
compliance with this code within the specified period, the village may remove
or cause the removal of said facility at the property owner's expense. With the
exception of time period specified in this section, the process for abatement
and removal of an abandoned WECS shall conform to the process, including
recovery of the village's costs and penalties, set forth in Chapter 154,
Blight.
      (4)   The Village of Pewamo may pursue all available legal remedies at
law and equity to remove a renewable energy system which fails to comply with
this code.
      (5)   Any delay by the Village of Pewamo in taking enforcement action
against the owner of a renewable energy system and the owner of the property if
such owner is different from the owner of such facility shall not waive the
village's right to take any legal action as provided by law.
      (6)   The village may seek the removal of a renewable energy system
regardless of the owner's or operator's intent for said facility, and
regardless of any permits that may have been issued or granted by other state
or federal governmental authorities. After the renewable energy system is
removed, the owner of the subject property shall promptly restore the subject
property to a condition consistent with the property's condition prior to the
installation of the system. Installation shall comply subject to applicable
local, state and federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-10-2019)
§153.114 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SMALL RESIDENTIAL).
   (A)   Authorization of use. Building-integrated, building-mounted and
ground-mounted solar energy systems may be authorized administratively in all
zoning districts in accordance with requirements of this chapter and subject to
approval by the Village of Pewamo or their designees.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Building-mounted solar energy system may not extend above the peak
roof height of the building to which the solar energy systems is affixed.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy system. The maximum height of a ground-
mounted solar energy system shall be six feet as measured from the average
grade at the base of the pole to the highest edge of the system.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not be located within the
required front yard or corner side yard or in any utility, water, sewer, or
other type of public easement.
      (2)   All parts of any ground-mounted solar energy system shall be set
back at least ten feet from the interior side and rear property lines.
      (3)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20% of the
required rear or backyard.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-10-2019)
§153.115 LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SOLAR FARM).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
establish standards for siting, installation, operation, repair,
decommissioning and removal of large solar energy within the Light Industrial
(LI) and Agricultural/Rural Estate District (A-1).
   (B)   Site plan drawing and supporting materials. All applications for a
large solar energy systems use must be accompanied by detail site plans, drawn
to scale and dimensioned and certified by a professional engineer licensed in
the State of Michigan, displaying the following information:
      (1)   All lot lines and dimensions, including a legal description of each
lot or parcel comprising the large solar energy system;
      (2)   Names of owners of each lot or parcel within the Village of Pewamo
that is proposed to be within the large solar energy system;
      (3)   Vicinity map showing the location of all surrounding land uses;
      (4)   Location and height of all proposed solar array(s), buildings,
structures, electrical tie lines and transmission lines, security fencing, and
all above-ground structures and utilities associated with a large solar energy
system;
      (5)   Horizontal and vertical (elevation) to scale drawings with
dimensions that show the location of the proposed solar array(s), buildings,
structures, electrical tie lines and transmission lines, security fencing and
all above ground structures and utilities on the property;
      (6)   Location of all existing and proposed overhead and underground
electrical transmission or distribution lines within the large solar energy
system and within 100 feet of all exterior property lines of the large solar
energy system;
      (7)   Proposed setbacks from the solar array(s) to all existing and
proposed structures with the large solar energy system;
      (8)   Land elevations for the solar array(s) location and the
relationship to the land elevations of all existing and proposed structures
within the large solar energy systems at a minimum of 10 feet contours;
      (9)   Access driveways within and to large solar energy system, together
with a detailed narrative regarding dimensions, composition and maintenance of
each driveway. All access drives shall be subject to approval by Village of
Pewamo and Ionia County Road Commission;
      (10)   Planned security measures to prevent unauthorized trespass and
access during the construction, operation, removal, maintenance or repair of
the large solar energy system;
      (11)   A written description of the maintenance program to be used for
the solar array and other components of the large solar energy system,
including decommissioning and removal. The description shall include
maintenance to be performed, and decommissioning and removal procedures and
schedules if the large solar energy system is decommissioned;
      (12)   Planned lightening protection measures; and
      (13)   Additional detail(s) and information as required by the special
land use requirements of the Village of Pewamo Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Application escrow account. An escrow account shall be deposited with
the village by the applicant when the applicant applies for a special land use
permit for a large solar energy system. The monetary amount deposited by the
applicant in escrow with the village shall be the amount estimated by the
village to cover all reasonable costs and expenses associated with the special
land use permit review and approval process, which cost shall include, but not
be limited to, reasonable fees of the Village Attorney, Lyons Township
Supervisor, Ionia County Road Commission, and Ionia County Building Department,
as well as costs for any reports or studies that are reasonably related to the
zoning review process for the application. The applicant shall have 30 days to
refuse or approve of the amount estimated by the village. Such escrow amount
shall be in addition to any filing or application fees established by
resolution.
   (D)   Compliance with the County Building Code and the National Electric
Safety Code. Construction of a large solar energy system shall comply with the
National Electric Safety Code and Ionia County Building Codes (as shown by
approval by the county) as a condition of any special land use permit under
this section. In the event of a conflict between the County Building Code and
National Electric Safety Code (NESC), the NESC shall prevail.
   (E)   Certified solar array components. Components of a solar array shall be
approved by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Solar
Rating and Certification Corporation (SRCC), Electronic Testing Laboratories
(EIL), or other similar certification organization if the similar certification
organization is approved by the village, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
   (F)   Height. Maximum height of a solar array, other collection device,
components or buildings of the large solar energy system, excluding substation
and electrical transmission equipment, shall not exceed 15 feet (as measured
from the natural grade at the base of improvements) at any time or location on
the property. Substation and electrical transmission equipment shall not exceed
100 feet.
   (G)   Lot size. A large solar energy system shall be located on one or more
parcels with an aggregate area of ten acres or greater.
   (H)   Setbacks. A minimum setback distance in (L-1) Light Industrial
District of 100 feet from all exterior property lines of the large solar energy
system and existing public roads and bike/walking trails shall be required for
all buildings and solar arrays. Also, a setback of 500 feet shall be required
from back property line of residential structures. A minimum setback distance
in (A-1) Agricultural/Rural Estate District of 200 feet from exterior property
lines of the large solar energy system and existing public roads and bike/
walking trails shall be required for all buildings and solar arrays, also a
setback of 500 feet shall be required from back property line of residential
structures.
   (I)   Lot coverage. A large solar energy system is exempt from maximum lot
coverage limitations.
   (J)   Screening/security. A large solar energy system shall be completely
enclosed by perimeter security fencing to restrict unauthorized access. Such
fencing shall be six feet in height with a one foot extension arm consisting of
a minimum of three strands of barbed-wire placed above the fencing and
slanting outward as measured from the natural grade of the fencing perimeter.
Electric fencing is not permitted. The perimeter of large solar energy systems
shall also be screened and buffered by installed evergreen or native vegetative
plantings whenever existing natural vegetation does not otherwise reasonably
obscure the large solar energy system from adjacent residential structures,
subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The evergreen or native vegetative buffer shall be composed of
native or evergreen trees that at planting shall be a minimum of four feet in
height and shrubs two feet in height. The evergreens shall be spaced no more
that 15 feet apart on center from central trunk of plant to the central trunk
of the next plant. Shrubs shall be spaced to more than seven feet apart on
center. All unhealthy (60% dead or greater) and dead material shall be replaced
by the applicant within one year or the next appropriate planting period,
whichever comes first.
      (2)   Failure to install or continuously maintain the required vegetative
buffer shall constitute a violation of the subchapter and any special use
permit may be subject to revocation.
   (K)   Signage. No advertising or non-project related graphics shall be on
any part of the solar arrays or other components of the large solar energy
systems. This exclusion does not apply to entrance gate signage or
notifications containing points of contact or any and all other information
that may be required by authorities having jurisdiction for electrical
operations and the safety and welfare of the public.
   (L)   Noise. No component of any large solar energy system shall emit noise
exceeding 65 dB(A) as measured at the exterior property boundary or the
existing ROW line.
   (M)   Lighting. All lighting for parking lots, driveways, external
illumination of buildings, or the illumination of signs shall be directed away
from and be shielded from adjacent properties and shall be so arranged as to
not adversely affect driver visibility or adjacent public roads.
   (N)   Distribution, transmission and interconnection. All collection lines
and interconnections from the solar array(s) to any electrical substations
shall be located and maintained underground inside the large solar energy
system, except in areas where technical or physical constraints make it
preferable to install equipment above ground. This requirement excludes
transmission equipment meant to connect the project substation to the local
transmission system.
   (O)   Abandonment and decommissioning. Following the operational life of the
project, the applicant shall perform decommissioning and removal of the large
solar energy system and all its components. The applicant shall prepare a
decommissioning plan and submit it to the Village of Pewamo for review and
approval prior to issuance of the special land user permit. Under this plan,
all structures, concrete, piping, facilities, and other project related
materials above grade and any structures up to three feet below-grade shall be
removed offsite for disposal. Any solar array or combination of photovoltaic
devices that is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months shall be
considered abandoned and shall be removed under the decommissioning plan. The
ground must be restored to its original topography within 365 days of
abandonment or decommissioning. Failure to remove an abandoned large solar
energy system and all its components within the period set forth herein shall
be grounds for the Village of Pewamo to remove the large solar energy system
and all its components at the owner's or property owner's expense. With the
exception of time period specified in this section, the process for abatement
and removal of an abandoned large solar energy system and all its components
shall conform to the process, including recovery of the village's costs and
penalties, set forth in Chapter 154, Blight. The Village of Pewamo may pursue
all available legal remedies at law and equity to remove an abandoned large
solar energy system and all its components which fails to comply with this
code. Any delay by the Village of Pewamo in taking enforcement action against
the owner or successor entity of an abandoned large solar energy system and all
its components, or the owner of the property if such owner is different from
the owner of such facility, shall not waive the village's right to take any
legal action as provided by law.
   (P)   Approval time limit and extensions. Special use and site plan
approvals or permits under this section shall be valid for one year but, if
requested by the applicant prior to the expiration date, shall automatically be
extended for an additional one-year period.
   (Q)   Inspection. The village shall have the right, at any reasonable time,
to provide same-day notice to the applicant to inspect the premises on which
any large solar energy system is located. The village may hire one or more
consultants, with approval from the applicants, to assist with inspections at
the applicant’s or project owner's expense. Inspections must be coordinated
with, and escorted by, the applicant’s operations staff at the large solar
energy facility to ensure compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA), NESC and all other applicable safety guidelines.
   (R)   Training emergency response. Applicant will provide firefighter safety
awareness training for large solar energy systems for the local fire department
and assist in developing an emergency action plan suited to all incidents.
Also, the applicant shall provide a walk through of the large solar energy
system between the applicant and the local fire department that includes, but
is not limited to, the location of emergency shut off switches, lock out
locations, and the like. The cost for each is to be covered at the applicant’s
or owner’s expense.
   (S)   Maintenance and repair. Each large solar energy system must be kept
and maintained in good repair and condition at all times. The applicant shall
keep maintenance logs on the solar array(s), which shall be available for the
village review within 48 hours of such request. The applicant shall keep all
sites within the large solar energy system neat, clean and free of refuse,
waste or unsightly, hazardous or unsanitary conditions.
   (T)   Roads. Any material damages to a public road located within the
village resulting from the construction, maintenance or operation of a large
solar energy system shall be repaired at the applicant's expense. In addition,
the applicant shall submit to the appropriate county agency a description of
routes to be used by construction and delivery vehicles and any road
improvements that will be necessary to accommodate construction vehicles,
equipment or other deliveries. The applicant shall abide by all county
requirements regarding the use and/or repair of county roads.
   (U)   Continuing obligations. Failure to keep any required financial
security in full force and effect at all times while a large solar energy
system exists or is in place shall constitute a material and significant
violation of the special land use permit and this section, and will subject the
large solar energy system applicant, owner and operator to all remedies
available to the village, including any enforcement action, civil action,
request for injunctive relief, and revocation of the special land use permit.
   (V)   Other requirements. Each large solar energy system shall also comply
with all applicable federal, state and county requirements, in addition to
other applicable village codes.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 6-10-2019)
AMENDMENTS AND CONFLICTS
§ 153.125 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Act 110 of 2006 being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., Act 12
of 2008 being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. and Act 33 of 2008 being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., all provisions contained within this chapter including text
and all regulations, zoning districts and the boundaries thereof, may be
amended, modified and supplemented by appropriate action of the Village
Council.
   (B)   Such amendment or request for change may be initiated by the Village
Council, the Planning Commission or by any owner of the property which is the
subject of said request according to the following procedure.
      (1)   Each request for amendment of, or change, in this chapter shall be
in writing and on a form provided by the village and signed by petitioner. Upon
receipt, said petition shall be referred to the Village Planning Commission.
All fees in connection therewith shall be as established from time to time by
resolution of the Village Council and shall be due and payable upon the filing
of said petition.
      (2)   Notice of public hearings on all such requests shall be given as
provided in §
153.126.
      (3)   Upon receipt by the Village Council of the report, summary of
comments, and recommendation of the Planning Commission, the Village Council
may, at any meeting thereafter, adopt or refuse to adopt same with or without
amendments. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit the Village
Council from referring the matter back to the Planning Commission for any
additional report or from holding additional public hearings if it considers
same to be necessary and appropriate.
      (4)   Upon the presentation of a protest petition meeting the
requirements of this division (B), an amendment to this chapter which is the
object to said petition shall be passed by not less than two-thirds vote of the
Village Council. The protest petition shall be presented to the Village Council
before final legislative action on the amendment and shall be signed by one of
the following:
         (a)   Owners of at least 20% of the area of land included in the
proposed change; or
         (b)   Owners of at least 20% of the area of land included within an
area extending outward 100 feet from any point on the boundary of the land
included in the proposed change. (For purposes of the foregoing criteria,
publicly owned land shall be excluded in calculating the 20% land area
requirements.)
      (5)   Following the adoption of amendments to this chapter by the Village
Council, said amendments shall be filed with the Village Clerk and a notice of
ordinance adoption shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village within 15 days after adoption. Said notice shall include all
of the following information:
         (a)   A summary of the regulatory effect of the amendment, including
the geographic area affected or the text of the amendment; and
         (b)   The effective date of the amendment and the place and time where
a copy of the amendment may be purchased or inspected.
(Ord., § 7.1, passed 8-5-1991; Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.126 PUBLIC HEARINGS; NOTICES.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village not less than 15 days before the date the
application or request will be considered for approval. If a particular or
specific property is the subject of a hearing or the proceedings, notice shall
also be sent by first class mail or personal delivery to the owners of property
for which the approval is being considered and to all persons to whom real
property is assessed within 300 feet of the property and to the occupants of
all structures within 300 feet of the property, regardless of whether the
property or occupant is located within the village. If the name of the occupant
is not known, the term “occupant” may be used in making the notification
required herein. Only one notification per unit or spatial area owned or leased
by different persons need be given, and if a single structure contains more
than four dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by
different persons, notice may be given to the manager or owner of the structure
who shall be requested to post the notice at the primary entrance to said
structure.
   (B)   In addition, the notice required by this section shall describe the
nature of the request or proceeding and identify the property that is the
subject of the request, including a listing of all existing street addresses
within the property and indicate when and where written comments will be
received concerning the request.
   (C)   The foregoing notwithstanding, where any group of adjacent properties
numbering eleven or more that is proposed for rezoning, the requirement for
listing individual street addresses shall not apply to that group of adjacent
properties.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed - -2012)
§ 153.127 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Any and all ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with or inconsistent
with any of the terms of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent they
are so in conflict or inconsistent; provided, however, that the adoption of
this chapter shall not prevent or bar the continuance or institution of any
proceedings for offenses heretofore committed in violation of any existing
ordinance.
(Ord., § 7.3, passed 8-5-1991)
ENFORCEMENT; MISCELLANEOUS
§ 153.130 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Official shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Violations of any provisions of this chapter are declared to be a
nuisance per se. Any and all building or land use activities considered
possible violations of the provisions of this chapter observed or communicated
to Police and Fire Department employees or to any village officials shall be
reported to the Building and Zoning Official.
(Ord., § 9.1, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.131 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In the interpretation, application and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, whenever any of the provisions or limitations imposed or required by
the provisions of this chapter are more stringent than any other law or
ordinance, then the provision of this chapter shall govern, provided that
whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance impose more stringent
requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, then the provisions
of such other law or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord., § 9.2, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.132 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, morals, safety and the general welfare.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances,
the more restrictive or higher standards shall control.
   (C)   This chapter shall not abridge the provisions of a validly adopted
building code or other regulations.
(Ord., § 9.3, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.133 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective September 15, 1991, by the order of the
Village Council.
(Ord., § 9.4, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction as set forth within §
10.98 of this code of ordinances.
APPENDIX A: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3b69278cb28e462577cfc354af6f8e4f67856894/
IMAGES/0-0-0-746.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 8-5-1991)
CHAPTER 154: BLIGHT
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   General regulations
   
154.04   Maintenance of exterior property areas
   
154.05   Disposal of trash and rubbish
   
154.06   Abandoned automobiles
   
154.07   Buildings, structures or dwellings
   
154.08   Notice to abate
   
154.09   Contents of notice
   
154.10   Service of notice
   
154.11   Abatement by village
   
154.12   Emergency abatement by village
   
154.13   Village’s costs
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to:
   (A)   Prevent blight and the deterioration of buildings, structures and
property;
   (B)   Promote the property maintenance standards of the village; and
   (C)   Reduce the devaluation and maintain the neighborhood character of
property located in close proximity to certain blighted conditions.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings, unless the context in which they are used specifically
indicates otherwise:
   BLIGHT or BLIGHTED. Property located within the village, or any building,
structure or dwelling located thereon, marked by a pattern of physical
deterioration, substandard maintenance, unsafe and/or unsanitary conditions.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Any lumber, bricks, concrete, blocks, plumbing materials,
electrical wiring or equipment, HVAC ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar,
cement, nails, screws, or other materials commonly used in the construction or
repair of any buildings, structures or dwellings.
   DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The individual designated by resolution of the Village
Council to enforce this chapter.
   JUNK. Any dismantled, partially dismantled, broken, and/or inoperable
object, machinery or equipment, and/or any object or equipment unused for its
originally intended purpose, including, but not limited to, furniture intended
for indoor use which is placed outdoors, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans,
barrels, implements, parts of motor vehicles, machinery, cloth, rubber,
bottles, any metals, boxes, cartons or crates.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, other than a legal or equitable title holder,
occupying or possessing all or part of a building, structure, dwelling or
property.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable interest in all or part of a
building, structure, dwelling or property.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, co-partnerships, corporations, and all
associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated, whether acting
by themselves, or by agent or employee.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, including
but not limited to, animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, leaves, grass and other yard
waste.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to keep or maintain any
blighted property or any blighted building, structure or dwelling.
   (B)   All persons who violate any of the provisions of this chapter, whether
as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, operator or employee shall, except as
otherwise provided herein, be equally liable.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.04 MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   All property owners or occupants shall be responsible for maintaining
all exterior property areas in compliance with the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   Except for temporary accumulation in appropriate containers prior
to periodic collection for proper disposal, all exterior property areas shall
be properly maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, free from trash,
rubbish, junk, physical hazards, rodent or insect harborage and infestation;
      (2)   Any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a height
greater than ten inches on the average is prohibited on any lot or property,
including any public right-of-way abutting any lot or property, within the
village;
      (3)   All stored firewood shall be in neat, orderly stacks, unless
screened from view from all adjoining properties;
      (4)   The storage and accumulation of any building material shall only be
for a period that is reasonably necessary for the immediate use of such
materials, but in no event longer than 60 days. Building materials must be
piled off the ground so as not to become a suitable environment for rodents or
similar vermin; and
      (5)   Operable equipment, machinery, building materials, or other items
shall not be stored for periods of longer than 60 days in any truck trailer or
other type of trailer with or without its wheels.
   (B)   Failure to maintain all exterior property areas in compliance with the
requirements of this section shall constitute a blighted condition in violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.05 DISPOSAL OF TRASH AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Every owner or occupant of a building, structure or dwelling shall
dispose of trash and rubbish m a clean and sanitary manner by placement into an
approved disposal facility or approved containers.
   (B)   The operator of every establishment producing trash and rubbish shall
provide and at all times cause to be utilized, leak-proof containers provided
with close-fitting covers for storage of trash and rubbish until its removal
from the premises for disposal.
   (C)   Failure to properly dispose of trash and rubbish in compliance with
the requirements of this section shall constitute a blighted condition in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.06 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying any lot or property in the village shall
store, place or allow to be stored or placed on said property any abandoned,
dismantled, partially dismantled or wrecked automobile for a period of time in
excess of ten days. For purposes of this chapter, an ABANDONED, DISMANTLED,
PARTIALLY DISMANTLED, OR WRECKED AUTOMOBILE shall mean an automobile which
cannot be operated under its own power or cannot function as it was intended
and designed to function.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the indoor storage of automobiles or
to any storage which shall be a conforming use under the village zoning
ordinance or a variance permit issued under the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall
constitute a blighted condition in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.07 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES OR DWELLINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to keep or maintain any
building, structure or dwelling, whether occupied or vacant, in any of the
following conditions:
      (1)   With exterior walls or surfaces, including but not limited to,
doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, soffits, facia,
balconies and decks, or roof coverings that have become deteriorated to the
extent they do not provide adequate weather protection, are peeling, flaking,
rusting and/or chipped, or that show evidence of the presence of termite
infestation or dry rot;
      (2)   With damaged or missing exterior siding or roofing materials;
      (3)   With broken or missing windows or doors;
      (4)   With exterior walls, fences or retaining walls damaged or
deteriorated to the extent that the disrepair is visible from the public
rights-of-way;
      (5)   With roof or structural deterioration, damage or faulty
construction;
      (6)   With cracked or broken foundation or chimney;
      (7)   Partially completed and not presently under construction pursuant
to a valid permit issued by the building official;
      (8)   Vacant and unsecured so as to allow access by persons, animals or
the elements; and
      (9)   With utilities disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered
ineffective for a period of one year or more.
   (B)   Buildings, structures or dwellings under construction with valid
permits issued by the village shall not be in violation of this section.
   (C)   Failure to maintain all buildings, structures or dwellings in
compliance with the requirements of this section shall constitute a blighted
condition in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.08 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever a blighted property, building, structure or dwelling is found to
exist within the village, the enforcement official shall give ten days written
notice to the owner or occupant of such property, building, structure or
dwelling.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.09 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a blighted property, building, structure or dwelling
issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain:
   (A)   The location of the blighted property, building, structure or
dwelling;
   (B)   A description of what constitutes a violation of this chapter;
   (C)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the violation of this chapter;
   (D)   The time and place of a hearing before the Village Council. The person
responsible for the blighted property, building, structure or dwelling shall be
given the opportunity to show cause at the hearing why it should not be
removed, demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.10 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall be in writing and shall be served either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the person responsible
for the violation of this chapter at his or her address as shown on the
village's tax assessment records.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.11 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   At the hearing required by §
154.09 above, the Village Council shall take testimony of the enforcement
official, the person responsible for the blighted property, building, structure
or dwelling, and any interested party. Not more than five days after completion
of the hearing, the Village Council shall render a decision either closing the
proceedings or ordering the blighted property, building, structure or dwelling
removed, demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (B)   If the Village Council determines that the blighted property,
building, structure or dwelling should be removed, demolished, otherwise made
safe, or properly maintained, it shall enter an order that specifies what
action the owner(s) shall take and sets a date by which the owner(s) shall
comply.
   (C)   If the person responsible for the blighted property, building,
structure or dwelling fails to appear or neglects or refuses to comply with the
order issued under this section, the enforcement official shall take all
necessary action to enforce the order, including, but not limited to, employing
the necessary labor and materials to perform any removal, demolition, abatement
repairs, maintenance or other required work as expeditiously as possible. All
costs for such abatement shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 2015 -713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.12 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, when, in the opinion of the enforcement
official there is actual and immediate danger to the public or occupants of a
particular premise caused by a nuisance on such premise, the enforcement
official is hereby authorized and empowered, without any notice or hearing to
order and require such premises to be vacated. The enforcement official shall
immediately post the premises warning of the dangerous condition, and shall
then abate such nuisance and prepare a statement of costs incurred in the
abatement thereof.
(Ord. 2015 -713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.13 VILLAGE’S COSTS.
   (A)   The actual cost, plus accrued interest at the rate of 1% per month
from the date of the completion of the work, incurred by the village in its
abatement of an blighted property building structure or dwelling pursuant to
this chapter shall be charged by invoice to the owner(s) of the property on
which the violation was located. If payment is not received, the costs plus
accrued interest shall be added to the next regular tax bill forwarded to the
owner(s) of such property by the village and such costs shall be due and
payable at the time of payment of such tax bill.
   (B)   Where the full amount due the village is not paid by the owner(s)
within 60 days after the abatement of a blighted property, building, structure
or dwelling pursuant to this chapter, the Village Treasurer may cause to be
recorded a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the
abatement, the date and property on which said abatement was done The
recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien on the property,
and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and
interest, plus costs of court if any for collection until final payment has
been made. The costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law
for the collection of taxes, and, further, shall be subject to a delinquent
penalty of 1% per month in the event it is not paid in full on or before the
date the tax bill upon which said charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn
statements recorded in accordance with this section shall be prima facie
evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the
abatement has been properly and satisfactorily done, and shall be full notice
that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against
the premises designated or described in the statement and is due and
collectible as provided by law.
   (C)   The village may recover the full cost of its abatement of a blighted
property, building, structure or dwelling by single-lot special assessment in
accordance with this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2015 -713, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   In lieu of or in addition to any abatement action undertaken in accordance
with this chapter:
   (A)   A first violation of any provision of this chapter, by any person, is
a municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of
responsibility, be punishable by a fine of not less than $50;
   (B)   A second violation of any provision of this chapter, by any person, is
a municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination of
responsibility, be punishable by a fine of not less than $150;
   (C)   A third or subsequent violation of any provision of this chapter, by
any person, is a municipal civil infraction which shall, upon a determination
of responsibility, be punishable by a fine of not less than $300;
   (D)   Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense;
and
   (E)   In addition to the penalties provided by this section, the district
court shall have equitable jurisdiction to enforce any judgment, writ, or order
necessary to enforce any provision, the violation of which is a municipal civil
infraction, including, but not limited to, abatement of the violating condition
or the granting of any injunctive relief.
(Ord. 2015-713, passed 7-13-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
27       10-4-1993   Granting gas franchise to Consumers Power Company for 30
                     years
2009-05  7-13-2009   Granting electric franchise to Consumers Energy Company,
                     for 30 years
2023-01  5-8-2023    Granting electric franchise to Consumers Energy Company,
                     for 30 years
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite             Code Section
15.236 through 15.246     153.033
28.451 et seq.            130.01
117.5b                    10.01
125.539                   151.01
                          153.015,
125.3101 et seq.          153.084,
                          153.125
125.3601 et seq.          153.031
                          31.01,
125.3801 et seq.          153.015,
                          153.125
141.101 through 141.140   51.01,
                          52.002
199.501 through 199.551   53.01
257.1 et seq.             70.02,
                          153.004
257.648                   73.05
257.657a                  73.05
257.951 through 257.955   70.01
286.471 through 285.474   153.080,
                          153.083
286.569                   53.03
299.831 through 299.850   53.01
324.3101 et seq.          51.46
324.81129                 73.02
324.81131                 73.01
333.1101 et seq.          51.47,
                          73.06
333.27951 et seq.         111.02
460.701 to 460.718        92.21,
                          94.023
                          152.01,
                          152.18,
560.101 through 560.293   152.37,
                          152.55,
                          152.58
600.101 through 600.9939  73.99
600.101 et seq.           10.98
600.8801 through 600.8835 10.02
722.51 et seq.            153.103
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
-, § 1.1   8-5-1991    153.001
-, § 1.2   8-5-1991    153.002
-, § 1.3   8-5-1991    153.003
-, § 2.1   8-5-1991    153.015
-, § 2.2   8-5-1991    153.016
-, § 2.3   8-5-1991    153.017
-, § 3.1   8-5-1991    153.030
-, § 3.2   8-5-1991    153.031
-, § 3.3   8-5-1991    153.032
-, § 3.4   8-5-1991    153.033
-, § 3.5   8-5-1991    153.034
-, § 3.6   8-5-1991    153.035
-, § 3.7   8-5-1991    153.036
-, § 3.8   8-5-1991    153.037
-, § 3.9   8-5-1991    153.038
-, § 3.10  8-5-1991    153.039
-, § 3.11  8-5-1991    153.040
-, § 3.12  8-5-1991    153.041
-, § 3.13  8-5-1991    153.042
-, § 3.14  8-5-1991    153.043
-, § 3.15  8-5-1991    153.044
-, § 3.16  8-5-1991    153.045
-, § 3.17  8-5-1991    153.046
-, § 3.18  8-5-1991    153.047
-, § 4.1   8-5-1991    153.060
-, § 4.2   8-5-1991    153.061
-, § 4.3   8-5-1991    153.062
-, § 4.4(1)8-5-1991    153.063
-, § 4.4(2)8-5-1991    153.064
-, § 4.4(3)8-5-1991    153.065
-, § 4.4(4)8-5-1991    153.066
-, § 4.4(5)8-5-1991    153.067
-, § 4.4(6)8-5-1991    153.068
-, § 4.4(7)8-5-1991    153.069
-, § 5.1   8-5-1991    153.080
-, § 5.2   8-5-1991    153.081
-, § 5.3   8-5-1991    153.082
-, § 5.4   8-5-1991    153.083
-, § 5.5   8-5-1991    153.084
-, § 5.6   8-5-1991    153.085
-, § 5.7   8-5-1991    153.087
-, § 6.1   8-5-1991    153.100
-, § 6.2   8-5-1991    153.101
-, § 6.3   8-5-1991    153.102
-, § 7.1   8-5-1991    153.125
-, § 7.3   8-5-1991    153.127
Art. VIII   8-5-1991    153.004
-, § 9.1   8-5-1991    153.130
-, § 9.2   8-5-1991    153.131
-, § 9.3   8-5-1991    153.132
-, § 9.4   8-5-1991    153.133
-           8-5-1991    Ch. 153 Appendix A
2           8-2-1993    130.15 –
                        130.17
3           8-2-1993    93.27
                        90.01 –
4           8-2-1993    90.06,
                        90.08
5           8-2-1993    51.08
                        152.01,
                        152.02,
                        152.15-
7           8-2-1993    152.20,
                        152.35-
                        152.41,
                        152.55-
                        152.60
8           8-2-1993    93.01 –
                        93.05
9           8-2-1993    150.01 –
                        150.06
10          8-2-1993    91.01 –
                        91.05
11          8-2-1993    52.056
18          8-2-1993    70.15,
                        Ch. 72 Sched. I
19          8-2-1993    93.20 –
                        93.26
20          8-2-1993    91.40 –
                        91.44
21          8-2-1993    153.086,
                        153.103
22          8-2-1993    92.01 –
                        92.09
24          8-2-1993    70.01,
                        71.01
                        32.01 –
26          9-7-1993    32.03,
                        32.05
27          10-4-1993   TSO I
28          - -1994     93.03
                        93.02,
29          5-18-1998   151.01-
                        151.13
30          12-4-2001   51.40 –
                        51.50
31          5-2-2005    30.01
32          5-1-2006    30.02
-           7-10-2006   92.01
23          - -2008     92.20 –
                        92.26
                        94.001 –
                        94.005,
                        94.020-
                        94.025,
2008-01     5-12-2008   94.040-
                        94.065,
                        94.080-
                        94.083,
                        94.999
2009-01     - -2009     32.20 –
                        32.27
                        51.01 –
2009-02     - -2009     51.07,
                        51.20-
                        51.26
                        52.001 –
                        52.004,
                        52.015-
                        52.017,
2009-03     6-8-2009    52.030-
                        52.035,
                        52.050-
                        52.055,
                        52.070-
                        52.074
2009-05     7-13-2009   TSO I
2009-04     8-10-2009   91.20 –
                        91.26
2011-01     - -2011     153.082
                        153.004,
                        153.015-
                        153.017,
                        153.030,
                        153.032,
                        153.035-
                        153.037,
2012-02     - -2012     153.042,
                        153.044,
                        153.045,
                        153.066,
                        153.080-
                        153.086,
                        153.101,
                        153.125,
                        153.126
                        50.01 –
2012-01     3-27-2012   50.08,
                        50.99
-           10-11-2012  51.02,
                        51.05
                        91.55 –
2013-1      1-14-2013   91.62,
                        91.99
2013-2      11-11-2013  130.01
2014-01     1-13-2014   33.01,
                        33.02
-           5-1-2015    51.22
                        154.01 –
2015-713    7-13-2015   154.13,
                        154.99
                        73.01 –
2015-105    10-5-2015   73.08,
                        73.99
-           10-5-2015   92.01,
                        92.08
                        51.02,
2009-02     8-8-2016    51.05,
                        51.06,
                        51.22
                        52.017,
2009-03     8-8-2016    52.030,
                        52.074
-           9-12-2016   153.080
2016-11-13  11-14-2016  95.01 –
                        95.11
-           12-12-2016  153.080,
                        153.088
                        53.01 –
6885        4-10-2017   53.05,
                        53.99
-           - -         153.104
-           5-14-2018   153.004,
                        153.102
-           7-16-2018   153.080
                        111.01 -
2019-01     4-8-2019    111.03,
                        111.99
4, revised  4-8-2019    90.06
2019-02     6-10-2019   153.110 -
                        153.115
                        51.02,
2009-02     7-8-2019    51.22,
                        51.24
--          10-14-2019  153.030
--          2-13-2023   153.088
2023-01     5-8-2023    TSO I
--          11-25-2024  153.063 –
                        153.065
--          11-25-2024  153.080
                       
 
 
