CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF
PLYMOUTH, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-
2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
   
1   Short title; charter townships, incorporation; powers, privileges,
immunities and liabilities; petition; special census, expenses
   
1a   Emergency financial manager; authority and responsibilities
   
2   Incorporation; referendum; ballot, form and content; filing of petition or
resolution by township clerk; finality of proceedings; term of incumbent
officers; disincorporation
   
2a   Violation of §§ 168.1 to 168.992 applicable to petitions; penalties
   
3   Incorporation; submission of proposition to electors; time; petitions;
verification of signatures
   
3a   Notice to clerk of township not incorporated as charter township;
resolution of township board; notice of right to referendum; petition;
signatures; submitting question of incorporation at general or special
election; wording of ballot
   
4   Nomination of candidates for township office; conducting primary election;
duties of township clerk; duties and composition of board of township election
commissioners
   
5   Township board; election of members; powers and duties; supervisor as
presiding and executive officer; authentication of instruments; president pro
tem; clerk; record of proceedings; temporary clerk
   
6   Charter township board; compensation, expenses of members
   
6a   Ordinance establishing procedure for determining salary of elected
official; contents; conducting business at public meeting; public notice;
resolution implementing ordinance; petition for referendum; change of
procedure; decreasing salary of elected township official
   
7   Township board; meetings; conducting business at public meeting; notice of
meeting; transacting business at special meeting; quorum; adjournment; rules
and order of business; journal; voting; availability of certain writings to
public; attendance and conduct at meetings; misconduct in office; sergeant-at-
arms
   
8   Charter township board; monthly publication of proceedings, notices and
ordinances
   
9   Township officers, powers and duties; additional officers, limitations
   
10   Township superintendent; appointment; delegation of powers and duties of
township supervisor
   
11   Township superintendent; tenure; qualifications; residency requirements;
waiver
   
11a   Township assessors; appointment, power and duties, compensation
   
12   Township police force, establishment; township marshal, appointment;
rules; policemen, powers and duties
   
13   Township fire department; establishment; township fire chief; appointment;
rules and regulations; refusal to aid at fire, penalty
   
14   Charter township; power to acquire property; approval of electors
   
14a   Bonds for public improvements; issuance; approval required; exceptions;
limitation of net indebtedness, computation of net indebtedness; bonds subject
to provisions
   
15   Ordinances to provide for peace, health and safety; licenses, granting,
fees, bonds
   
16   Streets, alleys, bridges, and public places; regulation of use; record of
ordinances, filing
   
17   Construction of buildings; powers and liabilities of charter townships as
to public health and safety
   
18   Joint action with other governmental unit or agency
   
19   Ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of former township;
continuation
   
20   Legislation to be by ordinance or resolution; form, passage, amendment,
recording, authentication, and compilation of ordinance
   
21   Violation of ordinances; sanctions; designation as civil infraction; act
or omission constituting crime; penalty; distribution of fines
   
21a   Police officers; right to pursue, arrest, and right to detain person
outside of charter township limits
   
21b   Police officer or constable; authority to execute bench warrant
   
21c   Regulation of recreational trailway; posting of ordinance; violation as
municipal civil infraction; penalty
   
22   Ordinance; publication; effective date; publication of summary or true
copy; catch lines required; drafting of summary
   
23   State law or standard code; adoption as township ordinance by citation;
publication, distribution, charge
   
24   Submission of itemized estimates of anticipated expenditures; preparation
and submission of budget proposal; time
   
25   Budget proposal; contents; commencement of fiscal year
   
26   Budget; notice, public hearing, prior public inspection
   
27   Adoption of budget by township board; resolution; appropriation; tax levy;
limitation; separate appropriation for fire and police departments; tax
collection; interim budget
   
28   Budget or supplemental appropriations; expenditure, restrictions;
unencumbered balances, transfer, reappropriation
   
29   Quarterly statement of estimated and actual income and expenses;
submission by supervisor to township board; reduction of appropriations;
exceptions
   
30   Annual audit of accounts, results, filing, public inspection; annual
report of township business
   
31   Local or public improvements; determination of necessity; special
assessments; duties of officers; bonds
   
32   Succession to properties of former township; suites or prosecutions; debts
and liabilities; uncollected taxes and assessments
   
33   Liberal construction of act
   
34   Exemption of charter township from annexation to contiguous city or
village; exceptions
Section 1.   Short title; charter townships, incorporation; powers, privileges,
immunities and liabilities; petition; special census, expenses.
   (1)   This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as “The Charter
Township of Plymouth Charter”. References in this charter to “Act” shall mean
Public Act 359 of the Public Acts of 1947 unless otherwise designated.
   (2)    A township, having a population of 2,000 or more inhabitants
according to the most recent regular or special federal or state census of the
inhabitants of the township may incorporate as a charter township. The charter
township shall be a municipal corporation, to be known and designated as the
Charter Township of Plymouth, and shall be subject to this act, which is the
charter of the charter township. The charter township, its inhabitants, and its
officers shall have, except as otherwise provided in this act, all powers,
privileges, immunities, and liabilities possessed by a township, its
inhabitants, and its officers by law and under Chapter 16 of the Revised
Statutes of 1846 being sections 41.1a to 41.110c of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
   (3)   A special census of the inhabitants of township desiring to
incorporate under this act shall be taken by the secretary of state upon
receipt of a petition signed by not less than 100 registered electors of the
township. Within 5 days after receipt of the petition, the secretary of state
shall appoint an enumerator or enumerators. An enumerator shall qualify for the
office of enumerator, enumerate the inhabitants of the township, and make a
return in the manner provided in Section 6 of Act No. 279 of the public Acts of
1909, as amended, being Section 117.6 of the Compiled Laws. The census, when
accepted by the secretary of state, shall fix the population of any township so
enumerated for the purposes of this act. All expenses incident to such special
census shall be paid for by the township.
Section 1a.   Emergency financial manager; authority and responsibilities.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this act, if an emergency financial manager
has been appointed under the local government fiscal responsibility act, Act
No. 101 of the Public Acts of 1988, being sections 141.1101 to 141.1118 of the
Michigan Compiled Laws, with respect to a township governed by this act, then
that emergency financial manager may exercise the authority and
responsibilities provided in this act to the extent authorized by Act No. 101
of the Public Acts of 1988.
Section 2.   Incorporation; referendum; ballot, form and content; filing of
petition or resolution by township clerk; finality of proceedings; term of
incumbent officers; disincorporation.
   Any eligible township shall become a charter township when the inhabitants
thereof shall, by a majority vote of the electors thereof voting on such
proposition, declare in favor thereof at any general or special election at
which the proposition to incorporate as a charter township shall be submitted
to the electors of the township. At such election the township clerk shall
prepare a ballot for the submission of such proposition in accordance with the
general election laws of the State and setting forth such proposition as
follows:
   “Shall the Township of Plymouth incorporate as a charter township which
shall be a municipal corporation subject to the provisions of Act No. 359 of
the Public Acts of 1947, as amended, which act shall constitute the charter of
such municipal corporation?
   Yes (  )
   No  (  )”
   If on the vote being canvassed on the question of incorporation as a charter
township, the result is determined to be in favor of such incorporation, the
township clerk shall file with the secretary of state and with the county clerk
of the county within which the township is located a copy of the petition or
resolution initiating the move to become a charter township, together with the
notice of the election at which such question was submitted to the electors of
the township, the ballot upon which such question was submitted, and a
certificate of the board of canvassers showing that the purposes of such
petition or resolution have been approved by a majority of the electors of the
township voting thereon, which certificate shall also give the number of votes
cast on such proposition and the number cast for and against the same. From the
date of such filing, the township shall be duly and legally incorporated as a
charter township. After the filing of such petition or resolution and the other
papers hereinabove required, neither the sufficiency thereof nor the legality
of the incorporation of the township as a charter township may be questioned in
any proceeding except by proceedings in the nature of quo warranto which shall
be brought within 40 days after the date of such filing. All officers of any
township which shall elect to become a charter township shall serve in the
offices to which they have been elected or appointed for the balance of the
terms for which they were elected or appointed and until their successors elect
or to be elected shall qualify for and assume their respective offices. Any
charter township may be disincorporated and returned to its previous status as
a township governed under the provisions of Chapter 16 of the Revised Statutes
of 1846, as amended, being sections 41.1 to 41.103 of the Compiled Laws of
1948, by following the same procedures therefor as provided herein for adopting
the provisions of this act. No election to disincorporate shall be held until 4
years after incorporation nor oftener than once each 4 years.
Section 2a.   Violation of §§168.1 to 168.992 applicable to petitions;
penalties.
   A petition under section 3, 3a, 4, 6a, or 34(5), including the circulation
and signing of the petition, is subject to section 488 of the Michigan election
law, 1954 PA 116, MCL 168.488. A person who violates a provision of the
Michigan election law, 1954 PA 116, MCL 168.1 to 168.992, applicable to a
petition described in this section is subject to the penalties prescribed for
that violation in the Michigan election law, 1954 PA 116, MCL 168.1 to 168.992.
Section 3.   Incorporation; submission of proposition to electors; time;
petitions; verification of signatures.
   The proposition to incorporate as a charter township shall be submitted at
the next general or at a special election in the event that, on or before
August 30, or, in the event of a special election, not less than 60 days,
preceding such election, the township board shall vote to submit such
proposition to the electors of the township, or in the event that there shall
be filed with the township clerk on or before such date petitions requesting
the submission of such proposition which have been signed by a number of
electors of the township which shall not be less than 10% of the total vote
cast for supervisor in the township at the last election in which a supervisor
was elected. The township clerk shall check the signatures on such petitions
with those of the electors signing such petitions as they appear on the
registration cards of the township and, if such petitions bear the required
number of signatures of electors of the township, shall do and perform all acts
required for the submission of the proposition to become a charter township at
the next general or special election.
Section 3a.   Notice to clerk of township not incorporated as charter township;
resolution of township board; notice of right to referendum; petition;
signatures; submitting question of incorporation at general or special
election; wording of ballot.
   (1)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this 1984 amendatory act
and after each regular or special federal or state census, the secretary of
state shall notify the clerk of a township which is not incorporated as a
charter township pursuant to this act and which has a population of 2,000 or
more inhabitants, excluding the population of any incorporated village,
according to the most recently made regular or special federal or state census
that the township may be incorporated as the Charter Township of Plymouth under
this act.
   (2)   After notification is received by the clerk, the township board may:
      (a)   Adopt, by a majority vote, a resolution opposed to incorporation.
      (b)   Adopt, by a majority vote, a resolution of intent to approve
incorporation and if a petition of disagreement to the intent resolution
relative to the incorporation is filed within 60 days before final passage of
the resolution, the electors of the township have the right to a referendum on
the incorporation question.
      (c)   Adopt, by a majority vote, a resolution to place before the
electorate the question of incorporation at the next regular or special
election.
   (3)   The clerk shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
township a notice of the right to referendum within 15 days after receipt of
notification from the secretary of state. A second notice shall be published 7
days after the first notice.
   (4)   The petition under subsection (2)(b) shall be signed by not less than
10% of the number of electors of the township voting for township supervisor at
the last election in which a supervisor was elected. The township clerk shall
check the signatures on the petitions with those of the electors signing the
petitions as they appear on the registration cards of the township. If
petitions bearing the required number of signatures of electors have been
filed, the clerk shall do and perform all acts required for the submission of
the question of incorporation at the next general or special election. The
wording of the ballot shall be in accordance with Section 2.
Section 4.   Nomination of candidates for township office; conducting primary
election; duties of township clerk; duties and composition of board of township
election commissioners.
   Candidates for township office in charter townships shall be nominated at
the general primary election held in the township before each general election
at which township officers are to be elected. The primary election shall be
conducted, as near as may be, pursuant to the Michigan election law, 1954 PA
116, MCL 168.1 to 168.992. Duties of the county clerk in the conduct of primary
elections shall be performed by the township clerk with respect to the
nomination of township officers, and the duties of the county board of election
commissioners shall be performed for each township by a board of township
election commissioners to be composed of the township clerk and the 2 trustees
appointed by the township board.
Section 5.   Township board; election of members; powers and duties; supervisor
as presiding and executive officer; authentication of instruments; president
pro tem; clerk; record of proceedings; temporary clerk.
   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this act, all legislative authority
and powers of each charter township shall be vested in and shall be exercised
and determined by a township board of 7 members composed of the supervisor, the
township clerk, the township treasurer, and 4 trustees who shall be electors in
the township. If the provisions of this act are adopted, the township board as
constituted at the time of the adoption of this act shall constitute the
township board until the first general election at which township officers are
elected after the adoption of this act. All members of the township board shall
be elected under the provisions of the Michigan election law, Act No. 116 of
the Public Acts of 1954, being sections 168.1 to 168.992 of the Michigan
Compiled Laws. If 2 additional trustees are required to be elected, they shall
be elected at the next general election. If the next general election is not a
regular township election, each additional trustee shall hold office until a
successor is elected at the next regular township election and qualifies for
office.
   (2)    The elected township board described in subsection (1) shall be the
successor to the prior township board of the township and shall possess the
powers and perform the duties of township boards in townships in addition to
the powers granted by law to charter townships. As a member of the township
board, the supervisor shall be the presiding and executive officer of the board
and shall have an equal voice and vote in the proceedings of the board. The
supervisor shall authenticate by his or her signature any instruments which the
board and the laws of the state or the federal government may require. If the
supervisor is absent from a meeting of the township board, the board shall
appoint 1 of its members president pro tem for that meeting. The township clerk
shall be clerk of the township board and shall keep a full record of all the
proceedings of the township board. In the absence of the clerk, the board shall
appoint 1 of its members as temporary clerk for that meeting.
Section 6.   Charter township board; compensation, expenses of members.
   A trustee may receive, in addition to other emoluments provided by law for
his service to the township, a sum per meeting of the board actually attended
by him, as established by the township board to be paid upon authorization of
the township board. The supervisor, the township clerk, and the township
treasurer shall receive no additional compensation for attending meetings of
the board. Reasonable expenses may be allowed to members of the township board
when actually incurred on behalf of the township.
Section 6a.   Ordinance establishing procedure for determining salary of
elected official; contents; conducting business at public meeting; public
notice; resolution implementing ordinance; petition for referendum; change of
procedure; decreasing salary of elected township official.
   (1)   In place of the procedure in section 6 for determining the salary of
each elected official, the township board may establish by ordinance the
procedure described in this section. The ordinance shall provide the following:
      (a)   A local officials compensation commission is created. The
commission shall determine the salary of each township elected official. The
commission shall consist of 5 members who are registered electors of the
township, appointed by the supervisor subject to confirmation by a majority of
the members elected and serving on the township board. The terms of office
shall be 5 years, except that of the members first appointed, 1 each shall be
appointed for terms of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years. All first members shall be
appointed not more than 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance.
Members other than the first members shall be appointed before October 1 of the
year of appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of an
unexpired term. An officer or employee of a government agency or unit or a
member of the immediate family of that officer or employee shall not be
appointed to the commission.
      (b)   The commission shall determine the salary of each township elected
official which determination shall be the salary unless the township board by
resolution adopted by 2/3 of the members elected to and serving on the board
rejects the determination. A determination of the commission shall be effective
30 days following its filing with the township clerk unless rejected by the
township board. If a determination is rejected, the existing salary shall
prevail. An expense allowance or reimbursement paid to an elected official in
addition to salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of township
business and accounted for to the township.
      (c)   The commission shall meet for not more than 15 session days in each
odd numbered year and shall make a determination within 45 calendar days of the
first meeting. A majority of the members of the commission constitutes a quorum
for conducting the business of the commission. The commission shall not take
action or make a determination without a concurrence of a majority of the
members appointed and serving on the commission. The commission shall elect a
chairperson from among the commission’s members. As used in this section,
“session days” means a calendar day on which the commission meets and a quorum
is present. The members of the commission shall not receive compensation, but
shall be entitled to actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance
of official duties.
   (2)   The business which the commission may perform shall be conducted at a
public meeting of the commission held in compliance with Act No. 267 of the
Public Acts of 1976, as amended, being sections 15.261 to 15.275 of the
Michigan Compiled Laws. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the
meeting shall be given in the manner required by Act No. 267 of the Public Acts
of 1976, as amended.
   (3)   The township board may implement the ordinance by resolution including
the date for convening the commission.
   (4)   Not more than 60 days after the effective date of the ordinance, a
petition for a referendum on the ordinance may be filed with the township clerk
containing the signatures of at least 5% of the registered electors of the
township on the effective date of the ordinance in which case the election
shall be conducted in the same manner as an election on a charter amendment. If
a petition for a referendum is filed, a determination of the commission shall
not be effective until the ordinance has been approved by the electors.
   (5)   After 1 year following the effective date of the ordinance, the
procedure for establishing the compensation of township elected officials may
be changed by ordinance.
   (6)   The salary of an elected township official shall not be decreased
during the official’s term of office as long as the responsibilities and
requirements of that office are not diminished during the term of the
official’s term of office, and the salary of an elected township official shall
not be decreased during the official’s term of office unless the official
consents in writing to the reduction in salary. Notwithstanding the above, if a
township in setting a township supervisor’s salary has designated a portion of
the supervisor’s salary to be paid the supervisor for directly performing the
property tax assessing function within the township and the supervisor
subsequently fails to perform that function, the salary of the supervisor may
be reduced by that portion of the supervisor’s salary designated for the direct
performance of the property tax assessment function; provided that in no event
may that portion of a supervisor’s salary designated for non-assessment
functions be decreased during the supervisor’s term of office without the
supervisor’s written consent.
Section 7.   Township board; meetings; conducting business at public meeting;
notice of meeting; transacting business at special meeting; quorum;
adjournment; rules and order of business; journal; voting; availability of
certain writings to public; attendance and conduct at meetings; misconduct in
office; sergeant-at-arms.
   (1)   The township board shall provide by resolution for the time, date, and
place of the board’s regular meetings, and shall hold at least 1 regular
meeting each month. If a time set for the holding of a regular meeting of the
township board is a holiday, then the regular meeting shall be held at the same
time and place on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.
   (2)   A special meeting of the township board shall be called by the
township clerk pursuant to subsection (3) on the written request of the
supervisor or of 2 members of the township board and on at least 24 hours
written notice to each member of the township board. The notice shall designate
the time, place and purpose of the meeting and shall be served personally or
left at the member’s usual place of residence by the township clerk or someone
designated by the township clerk.
   (3)   The business that the board may perform shall be conducted at a public
meeting of the board held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Act. No.
267 of the Public Acts of 1976, being sections 15.261 to 15.275 of the Michigan
Compiled Laws. Public notice of the time, date and place of the meeting shall
be given in the manner required by Act No. 267 of the Public Acts of 1976.
   (4)   Business shall not be transacted at a special meeting of the township
board unless the business has been stated in the notice of the meeting.
However, if all the members of the board are present at a special meeting, then
business that might lawfully come before a regular meeting of the board may be
transacted at the special meeting.
   (5)   Four members of the township board are a quorum for the transaction of
business at a meeting, but, in the absence of a quorum, 2 members may adjourn a
regular or special meeting to a later date.
   (6)   The township board shall determine its own rules and order of business
and shall keep a journal of its proceedings in the English language. The
journal shall be signed by the supervisor and the township clerk. The vote upon
the passage of an ordinance, and upon the adoption of a resolution and
ordinance shall be taken by yes and no votes and shall be entered upon the
record, except that where the vote is unanimous, it shall only be necessary to
record that fact. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a member of
the township board who is recorded as present shall vote on all questions
decided by the board unless excused by the unanimous consent of the other
members present. If, at a meeting of the township board, a member of the
township board states that he or she desires to be appointed by the township
board to fill a vacancy in a township office, that member may abstain from
voting on the appointment to fill the vacancy.
   (7)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by
the board in the performance of an official function shall be made available to
the public in compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, Act No. 442 of
the Public Acts of 1976, being sections 15.231 to 15.246 of the Michigan
Compiled Laws.
   (8)   The township board, by vote of not less than 2 members, may compel the
attendance of board members and other officers of the township at a regular or
special meeting and enforce orderly conduct in the meeting. A member of the
board or any other officer of the township who refuses to attend a meeting or
conduct himself or herself in an orderly manner is guilty of misconduct in
office. The township marshal shall serve as the sergeant-at-arms of the
township board in the enforcement of this section.
Section 8.   Charter township board; monthly publication of proceedings,
notices and ordinances.
   The proceedings of the township board shall be published at least once each
month. The publication of a synopsis of such proceedings, prepared by the
township clerk and approved by the supervisor, showing the substance of each
separate proceeding of the said board shall be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of this section. The said board shall determine the method of
publication of all notices, ordinances, and proceedings for which a mode of
publication is not prescribed by this act or ordinance. The said board shall
determine that such publication shall be made in a newspaper, as defined by
state law, which is published and circulated in the township, if there be one
so published and circulated, or in the event that there be no such newspaper,
then in one published in the county in which the township is located, or that
such publication shall be made by posting in the office of the clerk and in 5
other public places in the township. In case publication is made by posting, a
notice of such posting, setting forth by a descriptive phrase the purpose or
nature of the notice, ordinance or proceeding posted, and location of the
places where posted, shall be published at least once in a newspaper, as above
required, within 7 days after such posting was done.
Section 9.   Township officers, powers and duties; additional officers,
limitations.
   The township supervisor, township clerk, township treasurer, justices of the
peace, and constables in each charter township shall have and perform the
duties and functions required of such officers by state law. The township board
may, by resolution, upon the recommendation of the supervisor, or of the
township superintendent if one shall be appointed, create such additional
officers as may be necessary to administer the affairs of the township
government, or may combine any administrative offices in any manner not
inconsistent with state law, and prescribe the duties thereof. No creation of
any additional administrative office or combination thereof shall abolish the
offices of township clerk or township treasurer nor diminish any of the duties
or responsibilities of those offices which are prescribed by state law.
Section 10.   Township superintendent; appointment; delegation of powers and
duties of township supervisor.
   The township board in each charter township shall have power to appoint a
township superintendent and may delegate to him any or all of the following
functions and duties which functions and duties, unless so delegated, shall be
exercised by the supervisor:
   (a)   To see that all laws and township ordinances are enforced;
   (b)   To manage and supervise all public improvements, works, and
undertakings of the township;
   (c)   To have charge of the construction, repair, maintenance, lighting and
cleaning of streets, sidewalks, bridges, pavements, sewers, and of all the
public buildings or other property belonging to the township;
   (d)   To manage and supervise the operation of all township utilities;
   (e)   To be responsible for the preservation of property, tools, and
appliances of the township;
   (f)   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the township
or its inhabitants in any public utility franchise, or in any contract, are
faithfully kept and performed;
   (g)   To attend all meetings of the township board, with the right to take
part in discussions, but without the right to vote;
   (h)   To be a member, ex officio, of all committees of the township board;
   (i)   To prepare and administer the annual budget under policies formulated
by the township board and keep the said board fully advised at all times as to
the financial condition and needs of the township;
   (j)   To recommend to the township board for adoption such measures as he
may deem necessary or expedient;
   (k)   To be responsible to the township board for the efficient
administration of all departments of the township government;
   (l)   To act as the purchasing agent for the township or, under his
responsibility, delegate such duties to some other officer or employee;
   (m)   To conduct all sales of personal property which the township board may
authorize to be sold;
   (n)   To assume all the duties and responsibilities as personnel director of
all township employees or delegate such duties to some other officer or
employee;
   (o)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this act or
required of him by ordinance or by direction of the township board, or which
are not assigned to some other official in conformity with the provisions of
this act.
Section 11.   Township superintendent; tenure; qualifications; residency
requirements; waiver.
   (1)   The township superintendent shall hold office at the pleasure of the
township board and shall be selected by the township board on the basis of
training and ability alone, without regard to his political or religious
preference.
   (2)   An individual who is not a resident of the township at the time of his
or her appointment as township superintendent shall become a resident of the
township within 90 days after his or her appointment and shall so remain
throughout his or her tenure of office. An individual who is a resident of the
township at the time of his or her appointment as township superintendent shall
remain a resident of the township throughout his or her tenure of office. The
requirements of this subsection may be waived by a resolution adopted by a vote
of 2/3 of the members of the township board elected or appointed.
Section 11a.   Township assessors; appointment, power and duties, compensation.
   In any charter township, in addition to the supervisor, the charter township
board may provide for the appointment of assessors, not exceeding 2, for such
charter township. Such assessors, when appointed, shall be clothed with all the
powers and duties of supervisors in the assessment of property for taxation
within such township and shall receive for their services such compensation as
may be allowed by the charter township board. Whenever assessors shall be
appointed, as in this act provided, the supervisor shall be the chief assessing
officer and such assessors shall in all cases be subordinate to such
supervisor. Upon completion of the assessment and the making of the rolls, such
rolls shall be deposited with the supervisor.
Section 12.   Township police force, establishment; township marshal,
appointment; rules; policemen, powers and duties.
   The township board in each charter township may provide for and establish a
police force and authorize the supervisor, or the township superintendent, if
one has been appointed, to appoint, subject to the approval of the said board,
a township marshal and such other policemen and watchmen as may be required to
protect property and preserve the public welfare and safety in that portion of
the township not included within the corporate limits of any village or
villages located wholly or in part within the township. No police officer of
any such village shall be ineligible for appointment as a member of the
township police force, except that no village police officer shall serve as
township marshal. The township board shall make all necessary rules for the
government of the township police force and its members and shall prescribe the
powers and duties of policemen and watchmen, and may invest them with such
authority as may be necessary for the preservation of quiet and order and the
protection of persons and property within that part of the township not located
within the corporate limits of any village.
Section 13.   Township fire department; establishment; township fire chief;
appointment; rules and regulations; refusal to aid at fire, penalty.
   The township board in each charter township shall have power to provide for
and establish and maintain a fire department and authorize the supervisor, or
the township superintendent if one has been appointed, to appoint, subject to
the approval of the said board, a township fire chief and such other firemen as
may be required to protect persons and property from the hazards of fire in
that part of the township located outside the corporate limits of villages. The
township board shall make and establish rules and regulations for the
government of the department, the employees, firemen, and officers thereof; and
for the care and management of the buildings, engines, apparatus, and equipment
pertaining thereto. The township fire chief, or any officer acting as such, may
command and require any person present at a fire to aid in the extinguishment
thereof, and to assist in the protection of property thereat. If any person
shall willfully disobey any such requirement or other lawful order of any such
officer, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Section 14.   Charter township; power to acquire property; approval of
electors.
   Each charter township shall have power to acquire property for public
purposes by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction, or otherwise,
and to maintain and operate public buildings, parks, and facilities needed in
the performance of the powers and functions, expressed and implied, granted,
possessed, and required of them by this act, or any other statute of the State
of Michigan relating to townships and may sell and convey or lease any such
property or part thereof which is not needed for public purposes; provided,
that no taxes shall be levied to acquire any such property, public building,
park, or facility, unless such levy shall be approved by a majority of the
electors of the township voting thereon at any regular or special township
election.
Section 14a.   Bonds for public improvements; issuance; approval required;
exceptions; limitation of net indebtedness, computation of net indebtedness;
bonds subject to provisions.
   (1)   The township may borrow money and issue bonds on the credit of the
township for the purpose of constructing or otherwise acquiring a public
improvement that the township is authorized to construct or otherwise acquire
by law.
   (2)   Bonds shall not be issued, except special assessment bonds, bonds for
the township portion of local improvements, and bonds that the township board
is authorized by specific statute to issue without the vote of the electors,
unless approved by a majority of the electors voting on the bonds at a general
or special election.
   (3)   The net indebtedness of the township incurred for all public purposes
shall not exceed 10% of the assessed value of all real and personal property in
the township. In computing the net indebtedness all of the following shall be
deducted:
      (a)   Bonds issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments, even though they are general obligations of the township.
      (b)   Revenue bonds, even though they are general obligations of the
township.
      (c)   Bonds issued to comply with an order of the former water resources
commission, the Department of Environmental Quality, or a court of competent
jurisdiction, even though they are a general obligation of the township.
      (d)   Bonds issued or contract or assessment obligations incurred for
water supply, sewerage, drainage, solid waste disposal, steam generation and
distribution necessary to protect the public health by abating pollution, even
though they are a general obligation of the township.
      (e)    Bonds issued or contract or assessment obligations incurred for
the construction, improvement or replacement of a combined sewer overflow
abatement facility. As used in this subdivision:
         (i)   “Combined sewer overflow” means a discharge from a combined
sewer system that occurs when the flow capacity of the combined sewer system is
exceeded.
         (ii)   “Combined sewer overflow abatement facility” means any works,
instrumentalities, or equipment necessary to appropriate to abate combined
sewer overflows.
         (iii)   “Combined sewer system” means a sewer designed and used to
convey both storm water runoff and sanitary sewage, and which contains lawfully
installed regulators and control devices that allow for delivery of sanitary
flow to treatment during dry weather periods and divert storm water and
sanitary sewage to surface waters during storm flow periods.
         (iv)   “Construction” means any action taken in the designing or
building of a combined sewer overflow abatement facility. Construction
includes, but is not limited to, all of the following:
            (A)   Engineering services.
            (B)   Legal services.
            (C)   Financial services.
            (D)   Design of plans and specifications.
            (E)   Acquisition of land or structural components, or both.
            (F)   Building, erection, alteration, remodeling, or extension of a
combined sewer overflow abatement facility.
            (G)   Township supervision of the project activities described in
sub-subparagraphs (A) to (F).
         (v)   “Improvement” means any action taken to expand, rehabilitate, or
restore a combined seer overflow abatement facility.
         (vi)   “Replacement” means any action taken to obtain and install
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances during the useful life of a combined
sewer overflow abatement facility necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the equipment, accessories, or appurtenances are designed
and constructed.
   (4)   The resources of the sinking fund or debt retirement fund pledged for
retirement of outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the amount of the
indebtedness.
   (5)   Bonds are issued subject to the revised municipal finance act, 2001 PA
34, MCL 141.2101 to 141.2821.
Section 15.   Ordinances to provide for peace, health and safety; licenses,
granting, fees, bonds.
   The township board of any charter township may enact such ordinances as may
be deemed necessary to provide for the public peace and health and for the
safety of persons and property therein, and may by ordinance prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked;
and may in such ordinances require and exact payment of such reasonable sums
for any licenses as it may deem proper. The persons receiving the licenses
shall, before the issuing thereof, execute a bond to the township when required
by any ordinance in such sum and with such securities as prescribed by such
ordinance, conditioned for the faithful observance of this act, and the
ordinance under which the license is granted.
Section 16.   Streets, alleys, bridges, and public places; regulation of use;
record of ordinances, filing.
   Except insofar as limited by state law and the provisions of this act, the
township board shall have power to establish and vacate and use, and to control
and regulate the use of the streets, alleys, bridges, and public places of the
township and the space above and beneath them, such regulation of its streets,
alleys, bridges, and public places shall be deemed a matter of local concern.
Nothing in this act shall be construed to repeal or nullify the provisions of
Act No. 221 of the Public Acts of 1937. Any ordinance concerning the operation
of motor vehicles on any road, street or highway shall not become effective
until 30 days after approval by the commissioner of the Michigan state police.
A record of all ordinances so approved by the commissioner shall be kept on
file in his office. Such power shall include, but not be limited to, the proper
policing and supervision thereof; to the licensing and regulation, or the
prohibition of the placing of signs, awnings, awning posts, and other things
which are of such nature as to impede or make dangerous the use of sidewalks or
streets, upon or over the sidewalks or streets of the township; and the
licensing and regulation of the construction and use of openings in the
sidewalks or streets, and of all vaults, structures, and excavations under the
same.
Section 17.   Construction of buildings; powers and liabilities of charter
townships as to public health and safety.
   Charter townships shall have and possess and may exercise the same powers
and shall be subject to the same liabilities as are possessed by cities to
regulate the construction of buildings for the preservation of public health
and safety, to regulate the conduct of business, and to provide for the public
peace and health and for the safety of persons and property.
Section 18.   Joint action with other governmental unit or agency.
   Each charter township may join with any governmental unit or agency, or with
any number or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise as may be permitted
by law, to perform jointly, or by one or more, for or on behalf of the other or
others, any power or duty which is permitted to be so performed by law or which
is possessed or imposed upon each such governmental unit or agency.
Section 19.   Ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of former
township; continuation.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of a charter township
which were in effect at the time such township became a charter township and
which are not inconsistent with the laws of the state applicable to charter
townships shall continue in full force as the ordinances, resolutions, rules,
and regulations of the charter township until repealed or amended by action of
the proper authorities.
Section 20.   Legislation to be by ordinance or resolution; form, passage,
amendment, recording, authentication, and compilation of ordinance.
   (1)   Legislation of a charter township shall be by ordinance or by
resolution. A resolution shall be limited to matters required or permitted to
be done by resolution by this act or by state or federal law and to matters
pertaining to the internal affairs or concerns of the township government. Any
other act of the township board, and any act imposing a sanction for the
violation of the act, shall be by ordinance. “Resolution” means the official
action of the township board in the form of a motion.
   (2)   Each ordinance shall be identified by a number and a short title. Each
proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form. The style of
all ordinances shall be, “The Charter Township of Plymouth ordains:”. Except in
the case of ordinances which are declared to be an emergency ordinance, an
ordinance shall be finally passed by the township board at the same meeting at
which it is introduced, or before it is published in the form in which it was
introduced. An ordinance shall not be revised, altered, or amended by reference
to its title only, but the section or sections of the ordinance revised,
altered, or amended shall be re-enacted and published at length. When enacted
by ordinance passed by the Township Board, this code shall be immediately
recorded by the Township Clerk in a book to be called the “Charter Township of
Plymouth Code of Ordinances”. The supervisor and township clerk shall
authenticate the record by their official signatures on the record. The
ordinances of each charter township shall be compiled and published in loose
leaf or booklet form not less than once in every 10-year period.
Section 21.   Violation of ordinances; sanctions; designation as civil
infraction; act or omission constituting crime; penalty; distribution of fines.
   (1)   Unless otherwise provided, a violation of this Code shall be a
misdemeanor.
   (2)   Consistent with any of the following statutes, the township board may
adopt an ordinance that designates a violation of the ordinance as a civil
infraction and provides a civil fine for that violation:
      (a)   The Michigan vehicle code, 1949 PA 300, MCL 257.1 to 257.923.
      (b)   1969 PA 235, MCL 257.941 to 257.943.
      (c)   1956 PA 62, MCL 257.951 to 257.954.
   (3)   The township board may adopt an ordinance that designates a violation
of the ordinance as a municipal civil infraction and provides a civil fine for
that violation. An ordinance shall not designate a violation as a municipal
civil infraction if that violation may be designated as a civil infraction
under subsection (2). A statute may provide that a violation of a specific type
of ordinance is a municipal civil infraction whether or not the ordinance
designates the violation as a municipal civil infraction.
   (4)   An ordinance shall not make an act or omission a municipal civil
infraction if that act or omission constitutes a crime under any of the
following:
      (a)   Article 7 or section 17766a of the public health code, 1978 PA 368,
MCL 333.7101 to 333.7545 and 333.17766a.
      (b)   The Michigan penal code, 1931 PA 328, MCL 750.1 to 750.568.
      (c)   The Michigan vehicle code, 1949 PA 300, MCL 257.1 to 257.923.
      (d)   The Michigan liquor control code of 1998, 1998 PA 58, MCL 436.1101
to 436.2303.
      (e)   Part 801 of the natural resources and environmental protection act,
1994 PA 451, MCL 324.80101 to 324.80199.
      (f)   The aeronautics code of the state of Michigan, 1945 PA 327, MCL
259.1 to 259.208.
      (g)   Part 821 of the natural resources and environmental protection act,
1994 PA 451, MCL 324.82101 to 324.82160.
      (h)   Part 811 of the natural resources and environmental protection act,
1994 PA 451, MCL 324.81101 to 324.81150.
      (i)   Sections 351 to 365 of the railroad code of 1993, 1993 PA 354, MCL
462.351 to 462.365.
      (j)   Any law of this state under which the act or omission is punishable
by imprisonment for more than 93 days.
   (5)   For an ordinance not described in subsection (2) or (3), punishment
for a violation of the ordinance shall not exceed a fine of $500.00 or
imprisonment for 90 days, or both. However, unless otherwise provided by law,
the ordinance may provide that a violation of the ordinance is punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500.00, or
both, if the violation substantially corresponds to a violation of state law
that is a misdemeanor for which the maximum period of imprisonment is 93 days.
   (6)   Fines collected for the violation of the ordinances of a charter
township shall be distributed as provided in section 8379 of the revised
judicature act of 1961, 1961 PA 236, MCL 600.8379.
Section 21a.   Police officers; right to pursue, arrest, and right to detain
person outside of charter township limits.
   If a person has committed a civil infraction violation under the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Act No. 300 of the Public Acts of 1949, being Sections 257.1 to
257.923 of the Michigan Compiled Laws, within a charter township, or has
committed or is suspected of having committed any crime within a charter
township, or has escaped from any prison or jail in the charter township, the
police officers of that charter township shall have the same right to pursue,
arrest, and detain the person outside of the charter township limits as does
the sheriff of the county.
Section 21b.   Police officer or constable; authority to execute bench warrant.
   A police officer of a charter township or, if authorized by the township
board, a constable of a charter township has the same authority within the
charter township as a deputy sheriff to execute a bench warrant for arrest
issued by a court of record or a municipal court.
Section 21c.   Regulation of recreational trailway; posting of ordinance;
violation as municipal civil infraction; penalty.
   (1)   An ordinance regulating a recreational trailway is not effective
unless it is posted and maintained near each gate or principal entrance to the
trailway.
   (2)   The operation of a vehicle on a recreational trailway at a time, in a
place, or in a manner prohibited by an ordinance is a municipal civil
infraction, whether or not so designated by the ordinance. A civil fine ordered
for a municipal civil infraction described in this subsection shall not exceed
the maximum amount of a fine provided by the ordinance or $500.00, whichever is
less. An act or omission described in this subsection is not a municipal civil
infraction if that act or omission constitutes a violation or crime that
section 21 prohibits an ordinance from designating as a municipal civil
infraction.
Section 22.   Ordinance; publication; effective date; publication of summary or
true copy; catch lines required; drafting of summary.
   An ordinance passed by a township board shall be published at least once. An
ordinance is effective immediately upon its publication, unless a date upon
which the ordinance shall become effective, which is subsequent to the date of
the publication of the ordinance, is specifically provided in the ordinance.
The publication of a summary or a true copy of an ordinance after final
passage, as a part of the published proceedings of the township board, shall
constitute publication of the ordinance. If a summary of an ordinance is
published, the township shall include in the publication the designation of a
location in the township where a true copy of the ordinance can be inspected or
obtained. Each section of an ordinance or a summary of an ordinance shall be
preceded by a catch line. A summary of an ordinance may be drafted by the same
person, corporation, partnership, firm, association, or other legal entity who
drafted the ordinance or by the township board or township zoning board and
shall be written in clear and non-technical language.
Section 23.   State law or standard code; adoption as township ordinance by
citation; publication, distribution, charge.
   The township board may adopt any provision of state law or any detailed
technical regulations as a township ordinance or code by citation of such
provision of state law or by reference to any recognized standard code,
official or unofficial: Provided, That any such provision of state law or
recognized official or unofficial standard code shall be clearly identified in
the ordinance adopting the same as an ordinance of the township. Where any
recognized official or unofficial standard code is so adopted, it may be
published by providing to the public not less than 50 copies in book or booklet
form, available for public distribution at a reasonable charge, and any
amendment to or revision of such adopted code or detailed technical ordinance
may be published in the same manner.
Section 24.   Submission of itemized estimates of anticipated expenditures;
preparation and submission of budget proposal; time.
   On or before 150 days prior to the commencement of the fiscal year, each
township officer shall submit to the supervisor, or to the township
superintendent if such officer has been appointed, an itemized estimate of the
anticipated expenditures of the township for the next fiscal year for the
township activities under his or her charge. The supervisor, or township
superintendent, as the case may be, shall prepare a complete itemized budget
proposal for the next fiscal year and shall submit it to the township board not
later than 120 days prior to the commencement of the fiscal year.
Section 25.   Budget proposal; contents; commencement of fiscal year.
   The budget proposal shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year, which shall commence on January 1 of each year and end on the
following December 31, or in the alternative shall commence on April 1 of each
year and end on the following March 31. In no event shall any fiscal year of a
township be extended beyond 12 months. It shall include at least all of the
following information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each function and
office of the township, showing the expenditures for corresponding items for
the current and last preceding fiscal years, with reasons for increases and
decreases recommended, as compared with appropriations for the current year.
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the township,
showing the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any.
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the township from
sources other than taxes and borrowing, with a comparative statement of the
amounts received by the township from each of the same or similar sources for
the last preceding and current fiscal years.
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit, as the case may be,
from the end of the current fiscal year.
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised by taxation and from
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed
expenditures.
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules as the township board considers
necessary.
Section 26.   Budget; notice, public hearing, prior public inspection.
   A public hearing on the budget shall be held before its final adoption, at
such time and place as the township board shall direct, and notice of such
public hearing shall be published at least 1 week in advance by the township
clerk. A copy of the proposed budget shall be on file and available to the
public for inspection during office hours at the office of the township clerk
for a period of not less than 1 week prior to such public hearing.
Section 27.   Adoption of budget by township board; resolution; appropriation;
tax levy; limitation; separate appropriation for fire and police departments;
tax collection; interim budget.
   Not later than 60 days prior to the commencement of the fiscal year, the
township board shall, by resolution, adopt the budget for the next fiscal year
and shall, in that resolution, make an appropriation of the money needed for
township purposes during the ensuing fiscal year of the township and provide
for a levy of the amount necessary to be raised by taxes upon real and personal
property for the municipal purposes of the township. This levy shall not exceed
1/10 of 1% of the assessed valuation of all real and personal property subject
to taxation within the limits of a village located within the township and 1/
2 of 1% of the assessed valuation of all real and personal property subject to
taxation in the balance of the township. The electors of a charter township may
increase the tax levy limitation to not to exceed a total of 1% of the assessed
valuation of all real and personal property in the township for a period of not
to exceed 20 years at one time. In a township in which there is located 1 or
more villages which maintain either a fire department or a police department
which is not limited solely to the village marshal, or both a fire department
and a police department, the expense of a township fire department or police
department, or both of the departments, in case both are maintained by the
township, shall be appropriated separately from the other expenses of the
township and a tax levy shall not be spread upon the township assessment roll
against the property, either real or personal, located in these villages. The
adoption of the resolution shall constitute complete and final authority for
the township supervisor to spread the levy or levies provided upon the tax roll
for the current year, according and in proportion to the valuations entered by
the board of review in the assessment roll of the township and to include the
amount of each levy in his or her warrant to the township treasurer. The
township treasurer shall collect and return the warrant in the manner provided
by the general property tax act, Act No. 206 of the Public Acts of 1893, being
sections 211.1 to 211.157 of the Michigan Compiled Laws. Within 60 days after
the incorporation of a township as a charter township under this act, the
township board shall adopt an interim budget to defray the expenses of the
township until the commencement of the next fiscal year as established in this
act and shall, in the adopting resolution, make an appropriation of the money
needed for these purposes from the funds and assets of the township available
for these purposes.
Section 28.   Budget or supplemental appropriations; expenditure, restrictions;
unencumbered balances, transfer, reappropriation.
   No money shall be drawn from the treasury of the township nor shall any
obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred, except pursuant to the
budget appropriation, or pursuant to any supplemental appropriation which may
be made from surplus received. The township board may transfer any unencumbered
appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from 1 fund or agency to
another. The balance in any appropriation, which has not been encumbered, at
the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the general fund and be
reappropriated during the next fiscal year.
Section 29.   Quarterly statement of estimated and actual income and expenses;
submission by supervisor to township board; reduction of appropriations;
exceptions.
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the township board, the supervisor or the township
superintendent, as the case may be, shall submit to the township board data
showing the relation between the estimated and actual income and expenses to
date; and if it shall appear that the income is less than anticipated, the
township board may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for debt and
interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep expenditures
within the cash income.
Section 30.   Annual audit of accounts, results, filing, public inspection;
annual report of township business.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the township
government at least annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the
township board. Such audit shall be made by qualified accountants experienced
in municipal accounting. The results of such audit shall be on file in the
office of the township clerk and available to the public for inspection. An
annual report of the township business shall be made available to the public by
the township board in such form as will disclose pertinent facts concerning the
activities and finances of the township government.
Section 31.   Local or public improvements; determination of necessity; special
assessments; duties of officers; bonds.
   Each charter township may make local or public improvements by paving
streets that are not a part of the county highway system, laying curbs and
gutters, installing elevated structures for foot travel over highways within
the township with the written approval of the director of the state
transportation department if the highways are state highways or with the
written approval of the board of county road commissioners if the highways are
county roads, laying sidewalks, installing solid waste disposal systems, steam
generation and distribution, paving streets that are a part of the county
highway system with the consent of and according to specifications of the
county road commission, laying storm and sanitary sewers, and separating storm
water drainage and footing drains from sanitary sewers on privately owned
property for a public purpose, installing water systems, and installing street
and highway lighting systems, and further may maintain or operate these
improvements. The township board of each charter township may determine the
necessity of the local or public improvement and may determine that the whole
or any part of the expense of the local or public improvement shall be defrayed
by special assessment upon lands abutting upon and adjacent to or otherwise
benefitted by the improvement. A special assessment under this section shall be
made in all respects as provided for the making of special assessments under
1954 PA 188, MCL 41.721 to 41.738. Each charter township may borrow money and
issue bonds therefor in anticipation of the payment of special assessments,
which may be an obligation of the special assessment district or may be both an
obligation of the special assessment district and a general obligation of the
township. Bonds issued under this act shall be issued in accordance with 1954
PA 188, MCL 41.721 to 41.738.
Section 32.   Succession to properties of former township; suites or
prosecutions; debts and liabilities; uncollected taxes and assessments.
   All charter townships created under the provisions of this act shall succeed
to and be vested with all the property, real and personal, moneys, rights,
credits and effects, and of all records, files, books and papers belonging to
such township as it formerly existed, and no rights or liabilities of the
township which existed at the time it became a charter township, and no suit or
prosecution of any kind commenced prior to and continuing at such time, shall
be, in any manner, affected by such change, but the same shall continue, stand,
or progress as if no such change had been made, and all debts and liabilities
of the township and all taxes and assessments levied and uncollected at the
time of such change shall stand until discharged or collected the same as if
such change had not been made.
Section 33.   Liberal construction of act.
   The provisions of this act shall be liberally construed in the interest of
the public health and welfare and the safety of persons and property within
such townships as shall incorporate under the provisions of this act.
Section 34.   Exemption of charter township from annexation to contiguous city
or village; exceptions.
   (1)   A charter township existing on June 15, 1978, or a township
incorporated after June 15, 1978, as a charter township that complies with the
following standard, is exempt from annexation to any contiguous city or village
except as provided in subsections (2) to (8):
      (a)   Has a state equalized valuation of not less than $25,000,000.00.
      (b)   Has a minimum population density of 150 persons per square mile to
be determined by the secretary of state by dividing the most recent regular or
special census of population by the number of square miles then under the
jurisdiction of the charter township not to include the population or territory
within the jurisdiction of an incorporated village.
      (c)   Provides fire protection service by contract or otherwise.
      (d)   Is governed by a comprehensive zoning ordinance or master plan.
      (e)   Provides solid waste disposal services to township residents,
within or without the township, by contract, license, or municipal ownership.
      (f)   Provides water or sewer services, or both, by contract or
otherwise.
      (g)   Provides police protection through contract with the sheriff in
addition to normal sheriff patrol, through an intergovernmental contract, or
through its own police department.
   (2)   Notwithstanding subsection (1), the State boundary commission may,
under procedures initiated and conducted pursuant to section 9 of Act No. 279
of the Public Acts of 1909, being Section 117.9 of the Michigan Compiled Laws,
order a portion or portions of a charter township to be annexed as necessary to
eliminate free standing islands of the township completely surrounded by an
annexing city, or to straighten or to align the exterior boundaries of the city
or village in a manner that the charter township and city or village contain
uniform straight boundaries wherever possible.
   (3)   Notwithstanding subsection (1), a portion of a charter township which
charter township is contiguous on all sides with a city or village may be
annexed by that city or village with the approval of a majority of the electors
in that portion of a charter township.
   (4)   Notwithstanding subsection (1), if a qualified elector does not reside
in the territory proposed to be annexed which is contiguous to the city or
village, other than the 1 or more persons petitioning, or if a petition signed
by 1 or more persons, firms, corporations, the United States government, or the
state or any of its subdivisions which collectively hold the equitable title as
vendee under a recorded land contract or memorandum of land contract, or
recorded legal title to more than 1/2 of the area of the land in the territory
to be annexed is filed with the city or village and with the township board of
the charter township in which the territory is situated, the annexation may be
accomplished by the affirmative majority vote of the city council or village
board of the city or village and the approval of the charter township board of
the township.
   (5)   Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (3), a portion of a charter
township contiguous to a city or village may be annexed to that city or village
upon the filing of a petition with the county clerk which petition is signed by
20% of the registered electors in the area to be annexed and approval by a
majority of the qualified and registered electors voting on the question in the
city or village to which the portion is to be annexed, and the portion of the
township which is to be annexed, with the vote in each unit to be counted
separately.
   (6)   If a petition is filed pursuant to subsection (5), the county clerk,
after determining the validity of the petition, shall order a referendum on the
question of annexation. This referendum shall occur within 1 year after the
validation of the petitions. The referendum shall be held at the first primary
or general election held in that county not less than 60 days after the
validation of the petition, or under section 639 of the Michigan election law,
Act No. 116 of the Public Acts of 1954, as amended, being Section 168.639 of
the Michigan Compiled Laws.
   (7)   A village having a population of 4,200 or more shall not be annexed to
a contiguous unit of government unless a majority of the qualified and
registered electors residing within the village vote in favor of the annexation
at an election held pursuant to the Michigan election law, Act No. 116 of the
Public Acts of 1954, as amended, being sections 168.1 to 168.992 of the
Michigan Compiled Laws.
   (8)   The common boundary of a charter township and a city or village may be
adjusted by resolution approved by a majority of each of the respective
governing bodies after the governing bodies give 90 days’ notice to property
owners in the area proposed for the boundary adjustment, and the governing
bodies conduct a public hearing on the proposed boundary adjustment.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Publication and distribution of code
   
10.02   Amendment procedure
   
10.03   Publication and distribution of amendments
   
10.04   Contents of code
   
10.05   Short title
   
10.06   Headings
   
10.07   Responsibility
   
10.08   Definitions
   
10.09   Title of officer to include deputy or subordinate
   
10.10   Tense/gender
   
10.11   Notice
   
10.13   Severability
   
10.14   Effective date
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CODE.
   (A)   Publication of the within codification of the ordinances of the
Charter Township of Plymouth is hereby directed.
   (B)   Twenty-one copies of the code shall be printed and distributed as
follows:
Officer No. of Copies
Officer                        No. of Copies
Supervisor                     1
Clerk                          2
Treasurer                      1
Each Board member              1
Attorney                       1
Chief of Police                2
Fire Chief                     1
Dept. of Public Works Manager  1
Community Development          1
Building Official              2
Ordinance Enforcement Officer  1
Director Public Services       1
Each 35th District Court Judge 1
 
   (C)   Copies of the original printing of this code shall be published and
made available to the public at a reasonable charge. In addition, the Clerk
shall keep one copy of the code available for public inspection during office
hours.
(Prior Code, § 1.010)
§ 10.02  AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   This code shall be amended by ordinance. The title of each amendatory
ordinance, adapted to the particular circumstances and purposes of the
amendment, shall be substantially as follows:
   (A)   To amend any section:
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION (or SECTIONS _____ AND _____) OF CHAPTER _____ OF
TITLE _____ OF THE CODE OF THE CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF PLYMOUTH.
   (B)   To insert a new section, chapter or part:
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF PLYMOUTH BY ADDING A
NEW SECTION (_____ NEW SECTIONS, A NEW CHAPTER or A NEW TITLE, as the case may
be) WHICH NEW SECTION (SECTIONS, CHAPTER or TITLE) SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS
SECTION _____ (SECTIONS _____ AND _____) OF CHAPTER _____ OF TITLE _____ (or
proper designation if a chapter or title is added) OF SAID CODE.
   (C)   To repeal a section, chapter or part:
AN ORDINANCE TO REPEAL SECTION (SECTIONS AND _____), CHAPTER _____, TITLE
_____, (as the case may be) OF THE CODE OF THE CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF PLYMOUTH.
(Prior Code, § 1.020)
§ 10.03  PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the code shall be published as required by law and not less
than 21 copies of each amendment shall be published suitable for insertion in
the copies of the code. The Township Clerk shall distribute such copies to the
officers of the township having copies of the code assigned to them. Each
officer assigned a copy of the code shall be responsible for maintaining the
same and for the proper insertion of amendatory pages as received. Each copy of
said code shall remain the property of the township and shall be turned over by
each officer having custody thereof upon expiration of his or her term of
office to his or her successor or to the Township Clerk, in case he or she
shall have no successor.
(Prior Code, § 1.030)
§ 10.04  CONTENTS OF CODE.
   (A)   This code contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of
the Charter Township of Plymouth dealing with municipal administration;
utilities and services; fire prevention; parks and public grounds; streets and
sidewalks; planning and zoning; energy conservation; subdivision; the State
Construction Code; police and traffic regulations; and nuisances.
   (B)   The adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as repealing or in
any way affecting the zoning regulations as authorizing or permitting any use
or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any
ordinance of the township in effect on the date of adoption of this code. All
ordinances of a general and permanent nature in effect on the effective date of
this code are hereby repealed except as otherwise provided herein; provided,
however, that any sections or parts of any such ordinance which are not
permanent and general in nature as herein defined and which are severable from
the remainder of such ordinances are saved from repeal.
(Prior Code, § 1.040)
§ 10.05  SHORT TITLE.
   This code may be known and cited as the “Charter Township of Plymouth Code”.
(Prior Code, § 1.050)
§ 10.06  HEADINGS.
   No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in
any chapter or section heading.
(Prior Code, § 1.060)
§ 10.07  RESPONSIBILITY.
   Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, by an amendment thereof or by
any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, such prohibition shall extend to and
include the causing, securing, aiding or abetting of another person to do said
act.
(Prior Code, § 1.070)
§ 10.08  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this code and any amendment
thereto, shall for the purposes of this code have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this section except in those instances where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, co-partnership, corporation, association,
club, joint adventure, estate, trust and any other group or combination acting
as a unit and the individuals constituting such group or unit.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to or upon which the public resorts or travels,
whether such place is owned or controlled by the township or any agency of the
State of Michigan or is a place to or upon which the public resorts or travels
by custom or by invitation, express or implied.
   STREET, HIGHWAY and ALLEY. The entire width subject to an easement for
public right-of-way or owned in fee by the township, county or state, of every
way or place, of whatever nature, whenever any part thereof is open to the use
of the public as a matter of right for purposes of public travel. The word
ALLEY shall mean any such way or place providing a secondary means of ingress
and egress from a property.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or lateral lines
and the right-of-way lines which is intended for the use of pedestrians.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Plymouth.
(Prior Code, § 1.080)
§ 10.09  TITLE OF OFFICER TO INCLUDE DEPUTY OR SUBORDINATE.
   Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the township is
assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, the title of said
officer shall mean and include such officer or his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
(Prior Code, § 1.090)
§ 10.10  TENSE/GENDER.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the content, all
words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be limited to
time of adoption of this code but shall extend to and include the time of the
happening of any act, event or requirements for which provision is made herein,
either as a power, immunity, requirement or prohibition and any words denoting
masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
(Prior Code, § 1.100)
§ 10.11  NOTICE.
   Notice regarding sidewalk repairs, sewer or water connections, dangerous
structures, abating nuisances or any other act, the expansion of which if
performed by the township may be assessed against the premises under the
provisions of this code shall be served:
   (A)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office or place of business with some person of
suitable age and discretion;
   (B)   By mailing said notice by certified or registered mail to such owner
at his or her last known address;
   (C)   If the owner is unknown, by posting said notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises at least five days before the act or action concerning
which the notice is given. No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate,
conceal or tear down any official notice or placard posted by a township
officer, unless permission is given by said officer to remove said notice; or
   (D)   As otherwise specified in this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.110)
§ 10.13  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   It is the legislative intent of the Board in adopting this code that
all provisions and sections of this code be liberally construed to protect and
preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
township; and should any provision or section of this code be held
unconstitutional or invalid, such holding shall not be construed as affecting
the validity of any of the remaining provisions or sections, it being the
intent that this code shall stand, notwithstanding the invalidity of any
provision or section thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the amendment of any
section of this code, whether or not the wording of this section is set forth
in the amendatory ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1.130)
§ 10.14  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code shall take effect in accordance with the terms of the ordinance
which adopts the code.
(Prior Code, § 1.140)
§ 10.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   In this section the term “violation of this code” means any of the
following:
      (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation
authorized by ordinance;
      (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; and
      (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made
or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or
by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   In this section the term “violation of this code” does not include the
failure of a township officer or township employee to perform an official duty
unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to
be punished as provided in this section.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted
of a violation of this code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500,
imprisonment for a period of not more than 90 days, or both. However, if a
section of this code substantially corresponds to a state law that is a
misdemeanor for which the maximum period of imprisonment is 93 days, a person
convicted of such section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500,
imprisonment for a period of not more than 93 days, or both. In addition, a
person convicted of a violation of this code shall be liable for costs.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
      (1)   With respect to violations of this code that are continuous with
respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
      (2)   With respect to other violations, each violation constitutes a
separate offense.
   (E)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation
of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
   (F)   Violations of this code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief or civil or quasi-
judicial enforcement.
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
      
31.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   EMPLOYEES
      
34.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30:  TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
Section
Ordinance Enforcement Officer
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Authority and duties
   
30.03   Appointment and removal
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance Enforcement Officer, see Public Act 175 of 1927, being M.C.L.A. §§
764.1 et seq.
ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 30.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The position of Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby established in the
township.
(Prior Code, § 11-9.00)
§ 30.02  AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to enforce all
misdemeanor and civil infraction provisions of the township with the exception
of the Township Criminal Code and the Township Traffic Code. The authority
herein granted to the Ordinance Enforcement Officer to enforce the aforesaid
code shall not be exclusive, but shall be supplemental to the enforcement
authority granted to any other specific office, officer or individual by any
particular ordinance or statute.
   (B)   The authority and duties of the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following: to investigate suspected
violations of the code; to issue and serve notices of violations of the code;
to issue and serve a person an appearance ticket if the Officer has reasonable
cause to believe that the person has committed a violation of the code; to
appear in court or other judicial proceedings to assist in the prosecution of
the code violation; to prepare cases for the prosecution of persons charged
with violation of the code; and to perform other duties as the Township
Supervisor may delegate.
(Prior Code, § 11-9.01)
§ 30.03  APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL.
   The Township Board is hereby authorized, by resolution at any regular
meeting of the Board, to appoint any person to the position of Ordinance
Enforcement Officer for the term or terms as may be designated in the
resolution. By resolution, the Township Board may without cause remove any
person from the position whenever the Board deems the removal is fitting and
proper.
(Prior Code, § 11-9.02)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Parking Violations Bureau
   
31.001   Authority, establishment and supervision
   
31.002   Location and administration
   
31.003   Definitions
   
31.004   Service of parking violations notice
   
31.005   Form of the parking violation notice
   
31.006   Settlement of violations
   
31.007   Procedure for all contested and/or unresolved violations
   
31.008   Schedule of fines
Planning Commission
   
31.020   Scope, purpose and intent
   
31.021   Establishment
   
31.022   Appointment and terms
   
31.023   Removal
   
31.024   Conflict of interest
   
31.025   Compensation
   
31.026   Officers and committees
   
31.027   Bylaws, meetings and records
   
31.028   Annual report
   
31.029   Authority to make master plan
   
31.030   Zoning powers
   
31.031   Subdivision and land division recommendations
   
31.032   Repeal
   
31.033   Severability
   
31.034   Savings clause
   
31.035   Publication
   
31.036   Effective date
Environmental Leadership Commission
   
31.050   Title
   
31.051   Purpose
   
31.052   Established; appointment of members
   
31.053   Duties and powers
   
31.054   Organization, meetings, rules and procedures
Plymouth Community Citizens Watch Program
   
31.065   Establishment
   
31.066   Purpose
   
31.067   Management
   
31.068   Qualifications and appointment
   
31.069   Duties
   
31.070   Regulations
   
31.071   Suspension and dismissal
 
   
31.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Citizens Watch Program, see M.C.L.A. §§ 42.12 and 42.15
   Parking Violations Bureau, see M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8395 and 257.42
   Planning Commission, see Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321
et seq. and
   Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 31.001  AUTHORITY, ESTABLISHMENT AND SUPERVISION.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 600.8395, as amended, and M.C.L.A. § 257.742, as
amended, the Parking Violations Bureau is hereby established for the township.
The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and control of the
Township Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § II-10.00)
§ 31.002  LOCATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
   The Supervisor shall, subject to the approval of the Township Board,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified township employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof.
(Prior Code, § II-10.01)
§ 31.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU. The Bureau established by this subchapter for the
processing of all civil infractions involving the parking or standing of a
motor vehicle within the township.
   PARKING VIOLATION NOTICE. A notice, other than a citation, directing a
person to appear at the Parking Violations Bureau and to pay the fines and
cost, if any, prescribed by the code of the township for the parking or
standing of a motor vehicle in violation of the code.
(Prior Code, § II-10.02)
§ 31.004  SERVICE OF PARKING VIOLATIONS NOTICE.
   In a civil infraction involving the parking or standing of a motor vehicle,
a copy of the parking violation notice need not be served personally upon the
defendant but may be served upon the registered owner of the motor vehicle by
attaching the copy to the vehicle. The parking violation notice may be issued
by either a police officer of the township or by any other township employee
duly authorized by the Township Board to issue a notice.
(Prior Code, § II-10.03)
§ 31.005  FORM OF THE PARKING VIOLATION NOTICE.
   The issuance of the parking violation notice shall be deemed an allegation
of a parking violation. The parking violation notice shall set forth the nature
of the offense and the date, time and location of the offense. In addition, the
parking violation notice shall also indicate the length of time in which the
person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violations
Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense
for which the parking violation notice was issued and advise that a civil
infraction citation will be sought if a person fails to respond within the time
limit.
(Prior Code, § II-10.04)
§ 31.006  SETTLEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denied having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine or attempt to
determine the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to the alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have the
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof, if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges and protections accorded to him or her by law.
(Prior Code, § II-10.05)
§ 31.007  PROCEDURE FOR ALL CONTESTED AND/OR UNRESOLVED VIOLATIONS.
   If a parking violation notice is attached to a motor vehicle and if an
admission of responsibility is not made and the civil fines and cost, if any,
for the violation are not paid at the Parking Violations Bureau, a citation may
be filed with the court having competent jurisdiction thereof and a copy of the
citation may be served by first-class mail upon the registered owner of the
vehicle at the owner’s last-known address. The citation shall consist of a
sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the parking violation
notice and shall fairly inform the defendant how to respond to the citation.
Thereafter, the citation for the parking or standing violation shall be
processed in the same manner as provided in M.C.L.A. § 257.741.
(Prior Code, § II-10.06)
§ 31.008  SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   The amount of fines for all parking and standing violations shall be
established by resolution of the Township Board if the fine has not previously
been established.
(Prior Code, § II-10.07)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.020  SCOPE, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Township Board under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act
110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to establish a Planning Commission
with the powers, duties and limitations provided by those Acts and subject to
the terms and conditions of this ordinance and any further amendments to this
subchapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide that the Township Board
of Trustees does hereby confirm the establishment under the State Planning
Enabling Act, Public Act 22 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of the
Township Planning Commission formerly established under the Township Planning
Act, Public Act 226 of 2003, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.131 et seq., to establish the
appointments, terms and membership of the Planning Commission; to identify the
officers and minimum number of meetings per year of the Planning Commission;
and to prescribe the authority, powers and duties of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § II-11.00)
§ 31.021  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Township Board hereby confirms the establishment under the State
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of
the Township Planning Commission formerly established under the Township
Planning Act, Public Act 226 of 2003, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.131 et seq. The Township
Planning Commission shall have nine members. The Township Planning Commission
as of the effective date of this subchapter shall, except for an ex officio
member whose remaining term on the Planning Commission shall be limited to his
or her term of the Township Board, continue to serve for the remainder of their
existing terms so long as they continue to meet all of the eligibility
requirements for Planning Commission membership set forth within the State
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
(Prior Code, § II-11.01)
§ 31.022  APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Township Supervisor, with the approval of the Township Board by a
majority vote of the members elected and serving, shall appoint all Planning
Commission members, including the ex officio member.
   (B)   The Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio member,
shall serve for terms of three years each.
   (C)   A Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment.
   (D)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
township except that one Planning Commission member may be an individual who is
not a qualified elector of the township. The membership of the Planning
Commission shall be representative of important segments of the community, such
as the economic, governmental, educational and social development of the
township, in accordance with the major interests as they exist in the township,
such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry and commerce. The membership shall also be
representative of the entire geography of the township to the extent
practicable.
   (E)   One member of the Township Board shall be appointed to the Planning
Commission as an ex officio member.
   (F)   An ex officio member has full voting rights. An ex officio member’s
term on the Planning Commission shall expire with his or her term on the
Township Board.
   (G)   No other elected officer or employee of the township is eligible to be
a member of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § II-11.02)
§ 31.023  REMOVAL.
   The Township Board may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § II-11.03)
§ 31.024  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a Planning Commission
member may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member
shall disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission.
Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as required by
this section constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, CONFLICT OF INTEREST is defined as
follows:
      (1)   An immediate family member is involved in any request for which the
Planning Commission is asked to make a decision. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER is
defined as a spouse, mother, father, sister, brother, son or daughter,
including an adopted child, and their spouses;
      (2)   The Planning Commission member has a business or financial interest
in the property involved in the request or has a business or financial interest
in the applicant’s company, agency or association;
      (3)   (a)   The Planning Commission member owns or has a financial
interest in neighboring property; and
         (b)   For purposes of this section, NEIGHBORING PROPERTY shall include
any property falling within the notification radius for the application or
proposed development, as required by the zoning ordinance or other applicable
ordinance.
      (4)   There is a reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest, as
determined by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § II-11.04)  Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.025  COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members may be compensated for their services as
provided by Township Board resolution. The Planning Commission may adopt bylaws
relative to compensation and expenses of its members for travel when engaged in
the performance of activities authorized by the Township Board, including, but
not limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops, educational and training
programs and meetings.
(Prior Code, § II-11.05)
§ 31.026  OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Secretary from
its members, and may create and fill other offices as it considers advisable.
An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as
Chairperson. The term of each office shall be one year, with opportunity for
reelection as specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may also appoint advisory committees whose
members are not members of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § II-11.06)
§ 31.027  BYLAWS, MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular meetings each
year, and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the meetings.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission’s bylaws, a
special meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or
by two other members, upon written request to the Secretary. Unless the bylaws
otherwise provide, the Secretary shall send written notice of a special meeting
to Planning Commission members at least 48 hours before the meeting.
   (D)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations. A writing prepared, owned, used, in
the possession of or retained by a Planning Commission in the performance of an
official function shall be made available to the public in compliance with the
Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et
seq.
(Prior Code, § II-11.07)
§ 31.028  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the Township
Board concerning its operations and the status of the planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the Township Board related to
planning and development.
(Prior Code, § II-11.08)
§ 31.029  AUTHORITY TO MAKE MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Under the authority of the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33
of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and other applicable planning
statutes, the Planning Commission shall make a master plan as a guide for
development within the township’s planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Planning Commission unless the Township Board passes a
resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the master plan.
   (C)   Unless rescinded by the township, any plan adopted or amended under
the Township Planning Act, Public Act 226 of 2003, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.131 et seq.,
need not be readopted under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of
2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
(Prior Code, § II-11.09)
§ 31.030  ZONING POWERS.
   (A)   All powers, duties, and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or
zoning commissions by the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., or other applicable zoning statutes are
transferred to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Any existing zoning ordinance shall remain in full force and effect
except as otherwise amended or repealed by the Township Board.
   (C)   To further the desirable future development of the township under the
master plan, the Township Board, after the master plan is adopted, shall
prepare or cause to be prepared by the Township Supervisor or by a designated
nonelected administrative official, a capital improvements program of public
structures and improvements, showing those structures and improvements in
general order of their priority, for the following six-year period. The
prepared capital improvements program, if prepared by someone other than the
Township Board, shall be subject to final approval by the Township Board. The
Planning Commission is hereby exempted from preparing a capital improvements
plan.
(Prior Code, § II-11.10)
§ 31.031  SUBDIVISION AND LAND DIVISION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Township Board provisions
of an ordinance or rules governing the subdivision of land. Before recommending
an ordinance or rule, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed ordinance or rule. The Planning Commission shall give notice of
the time and place of the public hearing not less than 15 days before the
hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
township.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Township Board under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. Before
making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall contain
the name and address of the proprietor or other person to whom notice of a
hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing,
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be sent to that person
at that address by mail and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the township. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed platted land.
(Prior Code, § II-11.11)
§ 31.032  REPEAL.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this subchapter, except as herein provided, are hereby repealed only to the
extent necessary to give this subchapter full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § II-11.13)
§ 31.033  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion of this subchapter is
for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision, and the holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § II-11.14)
§ 31.034  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   The repeal or amendment herein shall not abrogate or affect any offense or
act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any pending
litigation or prosecution of any right established or occurring prior to the
effective date of this subchapter, as amended.
(Prior Code, § II-11.15)
§ 31.035  PUBLICATION.
   The Clerk for the township shall cause this subchapter to be published in
the manner required by law.
(Prior Code, § II-11.16)
§ 31.036  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take full force and effect upon publication.
(Prior Code, § II-11.17)
ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP COMMISSION
§ 31.050  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Charter
Township of Plymouth Environmental Leadership Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed - -2019)
§ 31.051  PURPOSE.
   The Plymouth Township Environmental Leadership Commission (hereafter
“Commission”) exists to enhance understanding and encourage practices that lead
to a clean, sustainable, environmentally responsible and healthy community by:
   (A)   Educating residents, businesses and guests regarding environmental
stewardship and awareness, environmental policies, sustainability and best
practices;
   (B)   Partnering with individuals, government agencies, businesses and
allied environmental organizations to promote community participation in local
environmental protection, awareness, education, and enhancement projects and
initiatives; and
   (C)   Serving as a resource for information to answer questions from
residents of the township and others about environmental protection issues and
policies.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed - -2019)
§ 31.052  ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   There is hereby established a Township Environmental Leadership Commission.
The Commission shall have up to nine members to be appointed by the Board of
Trustees upon the recommendation of the Supervisor for staggered terms of three
years. The Supervisor may terminate the appointment of any member who has been
absent from three consecutive regularly scheduled meetings of the Commission
without prior excuse.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed - -2019)
§ 31.053  DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The duties and powers of the Commission are:
   (A)   To actively promote the purpose of the Commission;
   (B)   To serve as a coordinating body for the purpose of educating township
residents, businesses and guests about environmental issues and policies
impacting township life;
   (C)   To work with the township to identify and address conditions, policies
or practices that may enhance or detract from a healthy, sustainable community;
   (D)   To work with the township to create conditions, to establish policies
and practices, and to develop or adopt programs which will enhance
understanding and encourage practices that lead to a healthy, clean and
sustainable community;
   (E)   To render advice, and to monitor and evaluate township policies,
practices and procedures which affect the environmental quality and
sustainability efforts within the township;
   (F)   To assist the township in its efforts to comply with environmental
codes, ordinances, regulations and statutes from local, county, state or
federal authorities;
   (G)   To promote community participation in local environmental
sustainability, cleanup, restoration and public education efforts;
   (H)   To monitor and promote public awareness of water quality issues in
creeks, rivers and wetlands within the township;
   (I)   To monitor and promote public awareness of recycling, waste
management, best practices and similar sustainability efforts within the
township; and
   (J)   To serve as a resource for information about environmental policies
and practices. As part of this, the Commission may engage in public education
projects, hold meetings and conduct workshops.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed - -2019)
§ 31.054  ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Members of the Commission shall be residents of the township who are
eligible for appointive office. All members of the Commission shall be voting
members of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall annually elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary from among its members. An elected officer or employee of the
township selected by the Supervisor may serve as an administrative liaison to
the Commission as needed.
   (C)   The Commission shall establish a regular time and place of meeting and
shall hold one regular meeting at least annually. Special meetings may be
called by the Chairperson, or by a majority of members of the Commission, upon
written notice received by each member at least five days prior to such
meeting.
   (D)   The Commission shall make and amend rules and procedures governing its
organization (hereafter “bylaws”) that are not inconsistent with the Charter,
this chapter, this section or any other township ordinance. The bylaws adopted
by the Commission shall not be effective until the bylaws are approved by the
Supervisor. Any amendment to the bylaws shall not be effective until the
amendment is approved by the Supervisor.
   (E)   The Commission shall keep a record of its proceedings and transactions
and shall submit an annual report to the Township Board of Trustees.
   (F)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business for regular and/or special meetings. The
concurring vote of a majority of a quorum of Commission members present at a
meeting shall be necessary for the Commission to take action.
   (G)   The Commission shall comply with state law, including, but not limited
to, the state’s Open Meetings Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., and
Freedom of Information Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246.
   (H)   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed - -2019)
PLYMOUTH COMMUNITY CITIZENS WATCH PROGRAM
§ 31.065  ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the authority of Public Act 246 of 1945, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§
41.181 et seq.) and Act 181, Public Act of 1951, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 42.12
and 42.15), a citizens’ community watch program is hereby established to be
known as the “Plymouth Community Citizens Watch Program”.
(Prior Code, § II-12.00)
§ 31.066  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Program shall be to assist the Township Police Department
and to make the neighborhoods of the community more secure from criminal acts
by patrolling and reporting observations to the Township Police Department.
(Prior Code, § II-12.01)
§ 31.067  MANAGEMENT.
   The management of the Program shall be under the direction of the Township
Supervisor or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § II-12.02)
§ 31.068  QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Supervisor is hereby authorized and directed to promulgate rules
relating to the qualifications and selection process for members of the Program
and to appoint Program members in such numbers as he or she may deem necessary
to perform the duties outlined herein and to appoint instructors and
supervisors to train, direct and supervise the Program.
(Prior Code, § II-12.03)
§ 31.069  DUTIES.
   The duties of the members shall consist solely of patrolling areas of the
community as designated by the Supervisor and of reporting to the Township
Police Department any incidents determined to require police attention. Program
members do not have the authority of the police and are not intended to
exercise police powers nor to be utilized as response units.
(Prior Code, § II-12.04)
§ 31.070  REGULATIONS.
   The Program shall be administered in compliance with the following rules and
regulations, other rules and regulations promulgated by the Supervisor, the
ordinances of the township and the statutes of the state.
   (A)   Compensation. No member of the Program shall receive any compensation
from the township or from the Township Police Department for his or her
services as a volunteer member of the Citizens’ Community Watch Program, nor
shall any member of the Program be considered an employee of the township or of
the Township Police Department for purposes of the rights or benefits of the
worker’s compensation law of the state.
   (B)   Waiver of liability. Before appointment to the Program, each member
shall execute and deliver to the Supervisor an instrument in a form to be
approved by the Township Attorney releasing the township from all liability for
any injury or death of such member or for any other claim against the township
arising out of such member’s participation in the Program and a waiver of all
rights and benefits under the worker’s compensation law of the state.
   (C)   Weapons. No Program member shall carry a firearm of any kind, either
on his or her person or in a vehicle while participating in the Program,
notwithstanding any permit to carry any other concealed weapon, nor shall a
Program member carry any other prohibited item, either on his or her person or
in a vehicle while participating in the Program. Prohibited items are deemed to
include guns of any type, knives, chains, clubs, tire irons and chemical
dispensers carried with the intent of using such items as weapons.
   (D)   Identification. Members shall not represent themselves as police
officers or representatives of the Township Police Department, nor shall
Program patrol vehicles be equipped with flashing lights of any color, police
scanners or police monitors.
(Prior Code, § II-12.05)
§ 31.071  SUSPENSION AND DISMISSAL.
   Failure to observe all rules and regulations of this subchapter and those
promulgated by the Supervisor pursuant to this subchapter shall constitute
grounds for suspension and/or dismissal from the Program at the discretion of
the Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § II-12.06)
§ 31.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any
other legal entity who violates the provisions of §§
31.020 through
31.036 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § II-11.12)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any other
provisions of §§
31.050 through
31.054 is responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $100.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed - -2019)
CHAPTER 32:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Created
   
32.02   Authority and duties of supervisor
   
32.03   Appointments
   
32.04   Rules and regulations
   
32.05   Powers and duties
   
32.06   Property, equipment and buildings
Township Constables
   
32.20   Purpose
   
32.21   Limitation of powers
   
32.22   Bond required
   
32.23   Bond; filing; certified copy as evidence of contents and execution;
actions against constables or sureties upon bond
   
32.24   Service of warrants; notices and process; duties; ordinance restricting
or limiting powers; compliance with minimum employment standards; cost of
compliance; appointment as district court officer
   
32.25   Service of writ, process or order
   
32.26   Constable or police officers; right to pursue, arrest and detain person
outside of township limits
   
32.27   Police officer or constable; authority to execute a bench warrant
   
32.28   Attendance at sessions of circuit courts; notice; payment; township
officers; extra services; compensation
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 426 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. § 41.82
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01  CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established within the corporate limits of the
township a Police Department to be known as the “Charter Township of Plymouth
Police Department”.
(Prior Code, § II-13.00)
§ 32.02  AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF SUPERVISOR.
   The Township Supervisor shall exercise general supervision and control over
the Township Police Department.
(Prior Code, § II-13.01)
§ 32.03  APPOINTMENTS.
   The Department shall consist of police officers, civilian personnel,
reservists and volunteers as shall be determined by the Township Supervisor.
All appointments of police officers, however, made by the Supervisor to the
Police Department shall be approved by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § II-13.02)
§ 32.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   There shall be created by the Township Supervisor or his or her designee
such rules and regulations necessary for the government of the Police
Department and its members, which rules and regulations shall be approved by
the Township Board. The rules and regulations shall also prescribe the powers
and duties of all duly appointed police officers so as to invest them with the
authority as may be necessary for the preservation of quiet and order and the
protection of persons and property within the township.
(Prior Code, § II-13.03)
§ 32.05  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Duly appointed police officers to the Township Police Department shall have
such powers as authorized by law to protect property and protect the public
welfare and safety of all persons within the township. In carrying out the
duties, police officers of the Township Police Department may arrest and
prosecute offenders in the district courts and through the office of the County
Prosecuting Attorney in the circuit court for the county.
(Prior Code, § II-13.04)
§ 32.06  PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND BUILDINGS.
   The Township Board shall, in its sole discretion and upon recommendation of
the Township Supervisor, acquire by lease, purchase or otherwise such
equipment, apparatus, supplies, property, buildings and/or motor vehicles as
the Township Board shall determine are necessary for the operation, management
and maintenance of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § II-13.05)
TOWNSHIP CONSTABLES
§ 32.20  PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 426 of 1976, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. § 41.82, the township by and through its Board of Trustees, enacts
this subchapter for the purpose of restricting and/or limiting the powers and
duties prescribed by state law for township constables; to require compliance
with the minimum employment standards imposed by Public Act 203 of 1965, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 28.601 et seq., as amended; and to establish liability for
violations of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § II-3.00)
§ 32.21  LIMITATION OF POWERS.
   Pursuant to the authority vested in the Township Board by Public Act 426 of
1976 (M.C.L.A. § 41.82), no elected or appointed constable of the township
shall exercise any power or assume any duty prescribed by the laws of the
state, except as set forth below.
   (A)   Township constables shall be authorized to serve all criminal warrants
or other criminal process lawfully directed to them by the Township Board, the
Township Clerk or another officer.
   (B)   Township constables shall be authorized to serve all civil notices and
process lawfully directed to them by the Township Board, the Township Clerk or
any other office.
   (C)   Township constables shall be authorized to serve any writ, process or
order lawfully directed to them in the township within the county in which this
township is situated.
   (D)   Township constables shall be authorized to be ministerial officers of
the District Court and may be appointed as a District Court officer by the
District Court and may perform the duties permitted pursuant to Public Act 236
of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8301 to 600.8395.
   (E)   Township constables shall be authorized, when directed by the Township
Board, to perform liquor control inspections under the liquor control ordinance
of this township.
   (F)   Township constables shall be authorized to perform such other duties
or powers of their office only when specifically so directed by the Township
Board pursuant to resolution.
(Prior Code, § II-3.01)
§ 32.22  BOND REQUIRED.
   Every person elected or appointed to the office of constable before taking
offices and within the time proscribed by law for filing the official oath,
shall execute, with sufficient sureties to be approved by the Township Board,
an instrument in writing by which the constable and his or her sureties jointly
and severally agree to pay each person who may be entitled money that the
constable becomes liable to pay on account of the neglect or default of the
constable in the service or return of process that may be delivered to him or
her for service or collection or on account of misfeasance of the constable in
the discharge of, or failure of the constable to faithfully perform, the duties
of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § II-3.02)
§ 32.23  BOND; FILING; CERTIFIED COPY AS EVIDENCE OF CONTENTS AND EXECUTION;
ACTIONS AGAINST CONSTABLES OR SURETIES UPON BOND.
   The bond required in §
32.22 shall be filed in the office of the Township Clerk, and a copy of the
bond certified by the Township Clerk is presumptive evidence of the contents
and execution of the bond. Actions against a constable or his or her sureties
upon a bond shall be commenced within six years after the expiration of the
year in which commenced the term of office during which the neglect, default,
misfeasance or failure occurred.
(Prior Code, § II-3.03)
§ 32.24  SERVICE OF WARRANTS; NOTICES AND PROCESS; DUTIES; ORDINANCE
RESTRICTING OR LIMITING POWERS; COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS;
COST OF COMPLIANCE; APPOINTMENT AS DISTRICT COURT OFFICER.
   (A)   The constable shall serve all warrants, notices and process lawfully
directed to him or her by the Township Board, or the Township Clerk, or another
officer, and shall perform other duties as required by law. Persons elected or
appointed to the office of township constable shall comply with the minimum
employment standards established by the law enforcement officer training
council pursuant to § 9 of Public Act 203 of 1965, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §
28.609. The cost of complying with these standards shall be borne by the
township.
   (B)   A township constable may be appointed as a District Court officer by
the District Court and may perform the duties permitted pursuant to Public Act
236 of 1961, Chapter 83, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8301 to 600.8395.
The employment standard of division (A) above shall not apply when a township
constable is appointed as a District Court officer.
(Prior Code, § II-3.04)
§ 32.25  SERVICE OF WRIT, PROCESS OR ORDER.
   A constable may serve any writ, process or order, lawfully directed to him
or her in any township in his or her county.
(Prior Code, § II-3.05)
§ 32.26  CONSTABLE OR POLICE OFFICERS; RIGHT TO PURSUE, ARREST AND DETAIN
PERSON OUTSIDE OF TOWNSHIP LIMITS.
   If a person has committed a civil infraction violation under the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923,
within the township, or has committed or is suspected of having committed any
crime within the township, or has escaped from any prison or jail in the
township, the constable or police officers of that township shall have the
right to pursue, arrest and detain the person outside of the township limits as
does the sheriff of the county.
(Prior Code, § II-3.06)
§ 32.27  POLICE OFFICER OR CONSTABLE; AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE A BENCH WARRANT.
   A police officer of the township or, if authorized by the Township Board, a
constable of the township, has the same authority within the township as deputy
sheriff to execute a bench warrant for arrest issued by a court of record or a
municipal court.
(Prior Code, § II-3.07)
§ 32.28  ATTENDANCE AT SESSIONS OF CIRCUIT COURTS; NOTICE; PAYMENT; TOWNSHIP
OFFICERS; EXTRA SERVICES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Constables shall attend the sessions of the Circuit Courts for their
respective counties when notified for that purpose by the Sheriff and paid by
their respective counties.
   (B)   For services not otherwise provided for by law, rendered to townships
by township officers and the duties of their respective offices, the Township
Board shall audit and allow such compensation as it shall deem reasonable.
(Prior Code, § II-3.08)
CHAPTER 33:  EMPLOYEES
Section
Elected Officials Health Insurance Retirement Benefit
   
33.001   Purpose
   
33.002   Full-time retired elected official health insurance
   
33.003   Definition, health insurance retirement benefits
Employee Pension Plan
   
33.015   Title
   
33.016   Authorization
   
33.017   Creation and establishment; coverage
   
33.018   Deferred compensation under the Internal Revenue Code
   
33.019   Plan administration
   
33.020   Eligibility requirements
   
33.021   Contributions
   
33.022   Opting out
   
33.023   Retirement age
   
33.024   Confirmation of validity
Group Insurance Plan
   
33.035   Title
   
33.036   Establishment
   
33.037   Coverage
   
33.038   Full-time; eligibility
   
33.039   Contributions
   
33.040   Opting out
   
33.041   Confirmation of validity; existing plans
Ethics
   
33.055   Title
   
33.056   Scope, purpose and intent
   
33.057   Definitions
   
33.058   Standards of conduct
   
33.059   Personal opinion
   
33.060   Public resources
   
33.061   Personal profit
   
33.062   Incompatibility and conflicts in interest
   
33.063   Personal and financial interests
   
33.064   State Conflict of Interest Act, validity of contracts and voting on,
making or participating in governmental decisions
   
33.065   Political activities of public employee or public officer or official
   
33.066   Anti-nepotism
   
33.067   Representation before governmental body
   
33.068   Transactional disclosure
   
33.069   Annual disclosure statement
   
33.070   Filing and disposition of complaints
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 77 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. § 41.110b
ELECTED OFFICIALS HEALTH INSURANCE RETIREMENT BENEFIT
§ 33.001  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is to comply with the requirements of Public Act 77 of 1989,
being M.C.L.A. § 41.110b, as amended confirming the practice of providing
health insurance benefits to eligible retired full-time elected officials.
(Prior Code, § II-4.00)
§ 33.002  FULL-TIME RETIRED ELECTED OFFICIAL HEALTH INSURANCE.
   Retired full-time (such as, Supervisor, Clerk and Treasurer) township
elected officials and their spouses shall be entitled to receive health
insurance retirement benefits based upon either service by the full-time
elected official of five full terms as a full-time elected official, or service
of a minimum of 25 years of full-time employment with the township, including
at least two consecutive full-time elected official terms.
(Prior Code, § II-4.01)
§ 33.003  DEFINITION, HEALTH INSURANCE RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH INSURANCE RETIREMENT BENEFITS. Those retiree benefits, subject to
cost sharing provisions, as provided under the current contract between the
Charter Township of Plymouth and Local 2958, Michigan Council Number 25,
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO (AFSCME)
(or any successor bargaining unit) as it may, from time to time, be
renegotiated and approved.
(Prior Code, § II-4.02)
EMPLOYEE PENSION PLAN
§ 33.015  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Charter Township of Plymouth Pension
Plan Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § II-7.00)
§ 33.016  AUTHORIZATION.
   Pursuant to Public Act 77 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. § 41.110b, as amended, the
township hereby authorizes the creation of a pension plan for the pensioning of
its officers and employees, and for such purposes, also hereby authorizes the
Township Board to contract with any company or companies authorized to transact
pension business within the state.
(Prior Code, § II-7.01)
§ 33.017  CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT; COVERAGE.
   The pension plan shall be as described in the applicable collective
bargaining agreement, employment agreement or township policy.
(Prior Code, § II-7.02)
§ 33.018  DEFERRED COMPENSATION UNDER THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
   The Township Deferred Compensation Plan as provided by the Internal Revenue
Code shall be considered a separate and distinct plan from any township pension
plan. The Deputy Clerk and Deputy Treasurer’s eligibility, as well as the
eligibility for all employees working less than full time as described herein,
as well as the opted out employees’ eligibility for deferred compensation as
provided by the Internal Revenue Code, shall be separately determined by the
applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment agreement or township
policy and the Internal Revenue Code.
(Prior Code, § II-7.03)
§ 33.019  PLAN ADMINISTRATION.
   The Township Supervisor shall designate any required Plan Administrator or
Administrators.
(Prior Code, § II-7.04)
§ 33.020  ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each full-time employee shall be eligible to participate in the pension
plan, based on the applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment
agreement or township policy upon attaining the age of 18, except for the
Deputy Clerk and Deputy Treasurer who are not eligible for the township pension
plan unless specifically authorized by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § II-7.05)
§ 33.021  CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The township shall annually pay the contribution arising under the
applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment agreement or township
policy for each person. The contributions shall be secured from a township
fund. Each employee shall be responsible for his or her plan contribution(s)
and the Township Treasurer is hereby authorized to deduct the same from each
person’s pay, salary or compensation and to apply the same to the person’s
plan.
(Prior Code, § II-7.06)
§ 33.022  OPTING OUT.
   Any person desiring not to be covered under the pension plan, as described
in the applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment agreement or
township policy shall give written notice to the Township Clerk that he or she
desires not to be covered, and if the notice is received before the person has
become covered under the contract, he or she shall not be covered thereunder.
If the notice is received after the individual has become covered, his or her
coverage under the contract shall cease as provided for in the applicable
contract or policy.
(Prior Code, § II-7.07)
§ 33.023  RETIREMENT AGE.
   The retirement age, including early retirement age, shall be as provided in
the applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment agreement or as
provided by township policy.
(Prior Code, § II-7.08)
§ 33.024  CONFIRMATION OF VALIDITY.
   The township hereby ratifies and confirms the validity of any pension plan
in existence on the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § II-7.09)
GROUP INSURANCE PLAN
§ 33.035  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Charter Township of Plymouth Group
Insurance Plan Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § II-8.00)
§ 33.036  ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to § 110b of Public Act 77 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. § 41.110b, as
amended, the township hereby creates and establishes a group insurance plan to
make arrangements with a prepayment plan authorized to transact business within
the state, insuring and covering one or more of the following under policies of
group insurance or prepayment plan contracts, or both, covering life, accident,
dental care, vision care, health, hospitalization, and medical and surgical
service and expense insurance and hereby authorizes the Township Board to
contract with any company authorized to transact the business within the state
for the group insurance policies and to establish a cafeteria plan authorized
under § 125 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for its elected or appointed
officers and employees, any classes of elected or appointed officers and
employees, and dependents of those officers and those employees and to offer
any other employment benefit authorized by state of federal law.
(Prior Code, § II-8.01)
§ 33.037  COVERAGE.
   Except for full-time employees that exercise the option to opt-out under §
33.040, the group insurance plan created and established under this subchapter
shall cover each person within the following classes of officers and employees
subject to eligibility as provided in §
33.038:
   (A)   Full-time elected township officers and employees and their spouses
and dependents; and
   (B)   Eligible retired full-time employees, elected officials and their
spouses and dependents.
(Prior Code, § II-8.02)
§ 33.038  FULL-TIME; ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   For purposes of §
33.037, full-time employees shall mean employed for at least 37.5 hours per
week on a regular basis, subject to any pertinent collective bargaining
agreement, employment agreement or township policy.
   (B)   The elected Supervisor, Clerk and Treasurer shall be considered full-
time.
   (C)   For purposes of full-time retired elected officials, ELIGIBLE shall
mean either having served five complete terms as a full-time elected official,
or a minimum of 25 years of full-time employment with the township, including
at least two full-time elected official terms.
   (D)   Full-time eligibility for employees and retired employees shall be as
defined in the applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment agreement
or township policies.
   (E)   The Deputy Clerk and Deputy Treasurer shall not be eligible for
participation in the group insurance plan unless specifically authorized by the
Township Board.
(Prior Code, § II-8.03)
§ 33.039  CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The township and the employee contributions shall be as provided in the
applicable collective bargaining agreement, employment agreement or township
policy. The township contribution shall be secured from a township fund. Each
full-time employee shall be responsible for the remainder premium or charges
not paid for by the township and the Township Treasurer is hereby authorized to
deduct the premium from the employee’s pay, salary or compensation.
(Prior Code, § II-8.04)
§ 33.040  OPTING OUT.
   Any person desiring not to be insured shall give written notice to the
Township Clerk; and, if the notice is received before the person has become
insured under the contract, he or she shall not be insured thereunder. If the
notice is received after the individual has become insured, coverage under the
contract shall cease as provided for in the contract.
(Prior Code, § II-8.05)
§ 33.041  CONFIRMATION OF VALIDITY; EXISTING PLANS.
   The township hereby ratifies and confirms the validity of any life, health,
hospitalization, medical and surgical service and expense accident insurance,
and long term disability income insurance coverage, or any one or more of the
forms of insurance in existence on the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § II-8.06)
ETHICS
§ 33.055  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be referred to as the “Charter
Township of Plymouth Ethics Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.056  SCOPE, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth standards of conduct
for the elected and appointed officials of the township and, to the extent not
otherwise governed by applicable collective bargaining agreements or the
personnel manual, its employees. The citizens of the township are entitled to
fair, ethical and accountable local government that affords them full
confidence in its integrity. Furthermore, the effective functioning of
democratic government requires that public officials comply with both the
letter and the spirit of the laws and policies affecting the operations of
government, that public officials be independent, impartial and fair in their
judgment and actions, that public office be used only for public good and not
for personal gain, and that public deliberations and processes be conducted
openly, unless such deliberations and processes are lawfully closed to the
public, in an atmosphere of respect and civility.
   (B)   The subchapter also provides references to certain state statutes that
regulate the conduct of officers and employees of local government.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.057  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the township, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, travel, lodging and honoraria for speaking
engagements related to or attributable to government employment or the official
position of an officer or employee.
   GOVERNMENT CONTRACT. A contract in which the township acquires goods or
services, or both, from another person or entity, but the term does not include
a contract pursuant to which a person serves as an employee or appointed
officer of the township.
   GOVERNMENTAL DECISION. A determination, action, vote or disposition upon a
motion, proposal, recommendation, resolution, ordinance or measure on which a
vote by an officer or official is required and by which a public entity
formulates or effectuates public policy.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A person and a person’s spouse and the person’s children
and step-children, by blood or adoption.
   OFFICER or OFFICIAL. A person who holds office, by election or appointment,
within the township, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   OFFICIAL ACTION. A decision, recommendation, approval, disapproval or other
action or failure to act which involves the use of discretionary authority.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by:
         (a)   An officer; or
         (b)   An employee or by the officer or another employee directing that
employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business with:
         (a)   The officer; or
         (b)   An employee or with the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by:
         (a)   The officer; or
         (b)   An employee or by the officer or another employee directing that
employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.058  STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A) Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or official of the
township shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited
source or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) is not applicable to the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or official pays the fair market
value;
         (c)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the campaign
finance laws of the state;
         (d)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, half-
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of an
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
         (e)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient and not because of the personal friendship. In
determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal friendship, the
recipient shall consider the circumstances under which the gift was offered,
such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            2.   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            3.   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees.
         (f)   1.   Food or refreshments not exceeding $50 per person in value
on a single calendar day, provided that the food or refreshments are:
               a.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
               b.   Catered.
            2.   For purposes of this division (B)(6)(f), CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         (g)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee) if the
benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or
employment of the officer or official and are customarily provided to others in
similar circumstances;
         (h)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this subchapter, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer
or official from another officer, official or employee of the township, and
INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or official by an
officer, official or employee of another governmental entity.
         (i)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
         (j)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $50.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this division (B) is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   (C)   An officer or official does not violate this subchapter if he or she
promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited source.
   (D)   An officer or official shall not divulge to an unauthorized person
confidential information acquired in the course of service as the officer or
official in advance of the time prescribed by the township for its authorized
release to the public. Suppression of or refusal to provide public records of
the township is governed by the FOIA, the records retention schedule of the
township as approved by the State Archivist and M.C.L.A. § 750.491 (Public
records; removal, mutilation or destruction; penalty).
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.059  PERSONAL OPINION.
   An officer or official shall not represent his or her personal opinion as
that of the township.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.060  PUBLIC RESOURCES.
   An officer or official shall use personnel resources, property and funds
under the officer’s or official’s official care and control judiciously and
solely in accordance with prescribed constitutional, statutory and regulatory
procedures and not for personal gain or benefit.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.061  PERSONAL PROFIT.
   An officer or official shall not engage in a business transaction in which
the officer or official may profit from his or her official position or
authority or benefit financially from confidential information which the
officer or official has obtained or may obtain by reason of that position or
authority. Instruction which is not done during regularly scheduled working
hours, except for annual leave or vacation time, shall not be considered a
business transaction pursuant to this section if the instructor does not have
any direct dealing with or influence on the employing or contracting facility
associated with his or her course of employment with the township.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.062  INCOMPATIBILITY AND CONFLICTS IN INTEREST.
   Except as otherwise provided in the State Constitution of 1963, statute or
in §
33.064 of this code, an officer or official shall not engage in or accept
employment or render services for a private or public interest when that
employment or service is incompatible or in conflict with the discharge of the
officer’s or official’s official duties or when that employment may tend to
impair his or her independence of judgment or action in the performance of
official duties. The simultaneous holding of more than one public position
under certain circumstances is contrary to the requirements of the Incompatible
Public Offices Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.181 et seq. However, the simultaneous
holding of certain public positions is specifically authorized by the State
Constitution of 1963 or state statute.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.063  PERSONAL AND FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.064 of this code, an officer or official shall not participate in the
negotiation or execution of contracts, making of loans, granting of subsidies,
fixing of rates, issuance of permits or certificates, or other regulation or
supervision relating to a business entity in which the officer or official has
a financial or personal interest.
   (B)   The Conflict of Interest Act, Public Act 317 of 1968, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 15.321 et seq., governs the solicitation by and participation in government
contracts by officers and officials of the township and preempts all local
regulations of such conduct. However, the Conflict of Interest Act does not
apply to contracts between the township and its officers and officials which
are based on the township’s powers to appoint officers and officials and hire
employees.
   (C)   Section 2 of the State Ethics Act, Public Act 196 of 1973, being
M.C.L.A. § 15.342, sets forth the standards listed in §§
33.058 to
33.063 of this code. However, no sanctions are imposed for violation of these
standards by officers and officials of local units of government. Hence there
is no need for this subchapter to impose sanctions for the violation of these
standards of conduct.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.064  STATE CONFLICT OF INTEREST ACT, VALIDITY OF CONTRACTS AND VOTING ON,
MAKING OR PARTICIPATING IN GOVERNMENTAL DECISIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not in any manner vary or change the
requirements of Public Act 317 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.321 to 15.330,
which governs the solicitation by and participation in government contracts by
officers and officials of the township and preempts all local regulation of
such conduct.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended as a Code of Ethics for the township’s
officers and officials. A contract in respect to which a public officer or
official acts in violation of this subchapter shall not be considered to be
void or voidable unless the contract is a violation of a statute which
specifically provides for the remedy.
   (C)   Subject to division (D) below, §§
33.062 and
33.063 of this code shall not apply, and an officer or official shall be
permitted to vote on, make or participate in making a governmental decision if
all of the following occur:
      (1)   The requisite quorum necessary for official action on the
governmental decision by the township to which the officer or official has been
elected or appointed is not available because the participation of the officer
or official in the official action would otherwise violate §§
33.062 and
33.063 of this code;
      (2)   The officer or official is not paid for working more than 25 hours
per week for the township; and
      (3)   The officer or official promptly discloses any personal,
contractual, financial, business or employment interest he or she may have in
the governmental decision, and the disclosure is made part of the public record
of the official action on the governmental decision.
   (D)   If a governmental decision involves the awarding of a contract, §§
33.062 and
33.063 of this code shall not apply, and an officer or official shall be
permitted to vote on, make or participate in making the governmental decision
if all of the following occur:
      (1)   All of the conditions of division (C) above are fulfilled;
      (2)   The officer or official will directly benefit from the contract in
an amount less than $250 or less than 5% of the public cost of the contract,
whichever is less;
      (3)   The officer or official files a sworn affidavit containing the
information described in division (D)(2) above with the township making the
governmental decision; and
      (4)   The affidavit required by division (D)(3) above is made a part of
the public record of the official action on the governmental decision.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.065  POLITICAL ACTIVITIES OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEE OR PUBLIC OFFICER OR
OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Employees of local units of government running for office, political
campaigning by employees, and limitations on officers and officials and
employees seeking support from other employees for those campaigning for public
office and for or against ballot proposals are regulated by the Political
Activities by Public Employees Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.401 et seq. Complaints
may be filed pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 15.406. Violation of the provisions of this
Act by employees and appointed officers are subject to appropriate disciplinary
action, up to and including termination by the appointing authority. Violations
of the subchapter are also subject to the sanctions provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   The State Campaign Finance Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 169.201 et seq.
Complaints regarding compliance with this Act may be filed with the Michigan
Department of State.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.066  ANTI-NEPOTISM.
   Unless the township shall, by a two-thirds vote, which shall be recorded as
part of its official proceedings, determine that the best interests of the
township shall be served and the individual considered by such a vote has met
the qualifications for appointive office or employment, the following relatives
of any elected or appointed officer or official are disqualified from holding
any appointed office or employment during the term for which said elected or
appointed officer or official was elected or appointed: spouse; child; parent;
grandchild; grandparent; brother; sister; half-brother; half-sister; or the
spouse of any of them. This section shall in no way disqualify such relatives
or their spouses who are bona fide appointed officers, officials or employees
of the township at the time of the election or appointment of said officer or
official to elective township office.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.067  REPRESENTATION BEFORE GOVERNMENTAL BODY.
   An officer or official of the township shall not represent any other person
in any matter that the person has before the township when the officer or
official appoints or otherwise supervises the board, commission, officer,
official or employee responsible for handling the matter.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.068  TRANSACTIONAL DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Whenever an officer or official is required to recuse himself or
herself under this subchapter, he or she shall:
      (1)   Immediately refrain from participating further in the matter;
      (2)   Promptly inform his or her superior, if any; and
      (3)   Promptly file with the Township Clerk a signed affidavit of
disclosure disclosing the reason for recusal. The Township Clerk shall send
copies of the affidavit of disclosure to all of the members of the governing
body of the township, and the affidavit of disclosure shall be attached to the
minutes of its next meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk shall create and make available to officers and/or officials
an affidavit of disclosure-transactional form.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.069  ANNUAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   (A)   The following elected and appointed officers and officials shall file
an annual disclosure statement: members of the Board of Trustees; members of
the Board of Review; the Brownfield Redevelopment Authority; the Civil Service
Commission; the Downtown Development Authority; the Planning Commission; the
Zoning Board of Appeals; and any board or commission created by the Board of
Trustees after the adoption of this subchapter. The annual disclosure statement
shall disclose the following financial interest of the officer or official or
his or her immediate family in any company, business or entity that has
contracted with the township or which has sought licensure or approvals from
the township in the two calendar years prior to the filing of the statement:
      (1)   Any interest as a partner, member, employee or contractor in or for
a co-partnership or other unincorporated association;
      (2)   Any interest as a beneficiary or trustee in a trust;
      (3)   Any interest as a director, officer, employee or contractor in or
for a corporation, or as a member employee, or contractor for a limited
liability company;
      (4)   Legal or beneficial ownership of 1% or more of the total
outstanding stock of a corporation; and
      (5)   Any pending litigation involving the township.
   (B)   The annual disclosure statement shall include a summary listing each
business transaction with the township involving a financial interest described
in this section of the township officer or official and/or the immediate family
of the officer or official during the two prior calendar years. If there is no
reportable financial interest or transaction applicable to the officer or
official and/or the immediate family of the officer or official, the annual
disclosure statement shall contain a certification to that effect.
   (C)   The Clerk shall create and make available to the elected and appointed
officers and officials an affidavit of disclosure-annual form.
   (D)   The Township Clerk shall provide an annual notice to each officer or
official stating the requirement and date by which to file the disclosure
statement.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
§ 33.070  FILING AND DISPOSITION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   As deemed appropriate in its discretion, the Board of Trustees of the
township shall:
      (1)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint against an
officer or official, investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, conduct
or issue referrals for disciplinary hearings, and refer violations of this
subchapter or state or federal criminal statutes to the attention of the
appropriate attorney with a request for the filing of the appropriate criminal
prosecution or civil infraction enforcement;
      (2)   Receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and seek additional information and documents from officers,
officials and employees of the township; and
      (3)   Request the attendance of witnesses and the production of books and
papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all officers,
officials and employees of the township to cooperate with the Board of Trustees
of the township during the course of its investigations.
   (B)   Complaints alleging a violation of this subchapter shall be filed with
the Township Clerk. Within three business days after the receipt by the
Township Clerk of a complaint, the Township Clerk shall send by certified mail,
return receipt requested, a notice to the respondent that a complaint has been
filed against him or her, together with a copy of the complaint. Within three
business days after receipt by the Township Clerk of a complaint, the Township
Clerk shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of
confirmation of receipt of the complaint, together with a copy of the
complaint, to the complainant. The notices sent to the respondent and the
complainant shall also advise them of the date, time, and place of the Board of
Trustees of the township hearing to determine the sufficiency of the complaint
and to establish whether probable cause exists that the respondent named in the
complaint violated this subchapter. The Township Clerk shall also concurrently
send copies of the foregoing complaint and notices to the members of the Board
of Trustees of the township.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Trustees of the township shall conduct a hearing to
review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this subchapter, to determine whether there
is a reasonable basis to believe that the respondent has violated this
subchapter based on the evidence presented by the complainant and any
additional evidence provided to the Board of Trustees of the township at the
hearing pursuant to its investigatory powers. The complainant and respondent
may be represented by counsel at the hearing. Within a reasonable period of
time after the completion of the hearing, which may be conducted in one or more
sessions at the discretion of the Board of Trustees of the township, the Board
of Trustees of the township shall issue notice to the complainant and the
respondent of the Board of Trustees of the township’s ruling on the sufficiency
of the complaint and, if necessary, as to whether they find that there is a
reasonable basis to believe that the respondent has violated this subchapter.
      (2)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this
subchapter, and the Board of Trustees of the township finds that there is a
reasonable basis to believe that the respondent has violated this subchapter,
then the Board of Trustees may:
         (a)   Issue a formal statement of censure for a serious violation or a
formal letter of reproval for misconduct that is less serious; or
         (b)   If the case warrants it, refer the matter to the appropriate
agency for possible criminal prosecution or civil litigation.
   (D)   Sections 2b through 2e of the State Ethics Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.341 et seq., set forth protections for officers, officials and employees who
act as whistleblowers regarding the conduct of the township’s officers and
officials. Additional whistleblower protections are set forth in the
Whistleblowers’ Protection Act, Public Act 469 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.361 et seq.
   (E)   A complaint must be filed with the Township Clerk within two years of
the date the offense is alleged to have occurred.
   (F)   The Clerk shall create and make available to officers, officials,
employees and the public an ethics complaint form.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 19, passed 2-28-2017)
CHAPTER 34:  TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
Sale of Township Property
   
34.01   Sale of township property by auction; recommendation; supervision;
report; policies
   
34.02   Supervision; account
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Sale of township property, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§
42.1 et seq.
SALE OF TOWNSHIP PROPERTY
§ 34.01  SALE OF TOWNSHIP PROPERTY BY AUCTION; RECOMMENDATION; SUPERVISION;
REPORT; POLICIES.
   When it is determined by the Board of Trustees of the township that the sale
of unneeded property by means of auction, including electronic auction, is
necessary and reasonable in the exercise of the Township Board’s fiduciary duty
to obtain the best price for property to be sold, the Board may authorize such
sale. If a minimum bid is advisable, the Board shall set a minimum bid that
will be accepted for the property. The auction of township property shall only
occur upon the recommendation and under the supervision of the appropriate
department head and/or the Township Supervisor and the results of the auction
shall be reported to the Township Board at the next regularly scheduled
Township Board meeting. All township policies inconsistent herewith are hereby
amended to comply with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § II-14.00)  Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.02  SUPERVISION; ACCOUNT.
   Any account, such as, ebay, should be set up in the township’s name and the
department head supervising the process shall be responsible for handling all
questions about the item being sold, its condition, inspection by potential
purchasers, pictures of the item and delivery/pick-up. The Board shall also
designate the account to be credited with the sale proceeds.
(Prior Code, § II-14.01)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any other
legal entity who violates the provisions of §§
34.01 and
34.02 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more
than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion
of the court.
(Prior Code, § II-14.02)
CHAPTER 35:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Title of the subchapter
   
35.02   Purpose
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   Emergency management office; emergency management coordinator
   
35.05   Emergency management coordinators; duties
   
35.06   Township supervisor; powers; duties
   
35.07   Governor’s declaratory request
   
35.08   Township departments; liaison; duties
   
35.09   Disaster contingency fund
   
35.10   Appointment of volunteers
   
35.11   Rights, powers and immunities of disaster relief force
   
35.12   Temporary seat of local government
   
35.13   Immunity
Cost Reimbursement for Emergency Services
   
35.25   Definitions
   
35.26   Reimbursement; municipal civil infraction; penalty
   
35.27   Duty to remove and clean up
   
35.28   Failure to remove and clean up
   
35.29   Enforcement
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 390 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 30.401 et
seq. and M.C.L.A. § 41.806a
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  TITLE OF THE SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Emergency Management Ordinance of the
Charter Township of Plymouth”.
(Prior Code, § II-5.00)
§ 35.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the mitigation
preparedness, response and recovery from natural and human-made disasters
within the township through the coordination and utilization of all resources
within the township in an emergency or disaster situation.
(Prior Code, § II-5.01)
§ 35.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Michigan Emergency Management Act, Public Act 390 of 1976, as
amended.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from a natural or human-made cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, snowstorm, ice storm, tornado,
windstorm, wave action, oil spill, water contamination, utility failure,
hazardous peacetime radiological incident, major transportation accident,
hazardous materials incident, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought,
infestation, explosion or hostile military action or paramilitary action, or
similar occurrences resulting from terrorist activities, riots or civil
disorders.
   DISASTER RELIEF FORCE. All departments of the township government, private
and volunteer personnel, public officers and employees, and all other persons
or groups of persons identified in the township emergency operation plan as
having duties to perform or those called into duty or working at the direction
of a party identified in the plan to perform a specific disaster or emergency
related task during a local state of emergency.
   DISTRICT COORDINATOR. The Michigan State Police Emergency Management
Division District Coordinator.
   EMERGENCY. Any occasion or instance in which the Governor determines state
assistance is needed to supplement local efforts and capabilities to save
lives, protect property and the public health and safety, or to lessen or avert
the threat of a catastrophe in any part of the state.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR. The person appointed to coordinate all
matters pertaining to emergency management within the township. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR includes a civil defense director, civil defense
coordinator, emergency services coordinator, emergency program manager or other
person with a similar title and duties.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. A program established to coordinate
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities for all emergency or
disaster situations within a given geographic area made up of one or several
political subdivisions. Such a program has an appointed Emergency Management
Coordinator and meets the program standards and requirements as established by
the Department of State Police, Emergency Management Division. The township has
established an emergency management program.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The plan developed and maintained by the township
for the purposes of responding to all emergency or disaster situations by
identifying and organizing the disaster relief force.
   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A declaration concerning conditions within the
township by the Township Supervisor pursuant to the Act and this subchapter
which implements the response and recovery aspects of the township emergency
operations plan and authorizes certain actions as described in this subchapter.
   STATE OF DISASTER. An executive order or proclamation that activates the
disaster response and recovery aspects of the state, local and inter-
jurisdictional emergency operation plans applicable to the counties or
municipalities affected.
   STATE OF EMERGENCY. An executive order or proclamation that activates the
emergency response and recovery aspects of the state, local and inter-
jurisdictional emergency operation plans applicable to the counties or
municipalities affected.
   VITAL RECORDS. Those records that contain information needed to continue the
effective functioning of a government entity and its departments and for the
protection of the rights and interests of persons under emergency conditions in
the event of an emergency or disaster situation.
(Prior Code, § II-5.02)
§ 35.04  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   (A)   By the authority of this subchapter, there is hereby created an Office
of Emergency Management within the township for the purpose of coordinating all
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities within the township.
The township has established the position of Emergency Management Coordinator
to staff this office, and the Township Supervisor has appointed a person to
fill the position.
   (B)   The Township Supervisor shall appoint a minimum of two persons as
successors to the position of Emergency Management Coordinator. This line of
succession shall be listed in the emergency operations plan.
(Prior Code, § II-5.03)
§ 35.05  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATORS; DUTIES.
   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall comply with the standards and
requirements as established by the Department of State Police, Emergency
Management Division, under the authority of the Act in accomplishing the
following:
   (A)   Direct and coordinate the development of the township emergency
operations plans, which shall be consistent in content with the State Emergency
Management Plan;
   (B)   Specify departments and agencies which must provide an annex to the
plan or otherwise cooperate in its development;
   (C)   Identify department and agencies to be included in the emergency
operations plan as the disaster relief force;
   (D)   Develop and maintain a Township Resource Manual;
   (E)   Coordinate the recruitment and utilization of volunteer personnel;
   (F)   Assure the emergency management program meets eligibility requirements
for state and federal aid;
   (G)   Coordinate and/or conduct training and exercise programs for the
disaster relief force with the township and to test the adequacy of the
emergency operations plan;
   (H)   Through public information programs, educate the population as to
actions necessary for the protection of life and property in an emergency or
disaster situation;
   (I)   Assist in the development of mutual aid agreements;
   (J)   Oversee the implementation of all functions necessary during an
emergency or disaster in accordance with the emergency operations plan;
   (K)   Coordinate township emergency management activities with those of the
county, state and adjacent jurisdictions;
   (L)   Coordinate all emergency preparedness activities, including
maintaining primary and alternate Emergency Operations Centers; and
   (M)   Identify mitigation opportunities within the township and encourage
departments to implement these mitigation measures.
(Prior Code, § II-5.04)
§ 35.06  TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Township Supervisor shall supervise the activities of the
Emergency Management Office on a continuing basis. With the advice and consent
of the Township Board, the Township Supervisor shall formulate, review and
approve policies, procedures, and operational guidelines for the Emergency
Management Office as needed.
   (B)   On an annual basis, the Township Supervisor shall review the
eligibility and performance of the Emergency Management Coordinator and make
recommendations to the Township Board for any changes.
   (C)   The Township Supervisor shall once every two years, review the
emergency operations plan and, upon deeming adequate, shall certify the plan to
be current and adequate for the ensuing two years.
   (D)   When circumstances within the township indicate that the occurrence or
threat of occurrence of widespread or severe damage, injury or loss of life or
property from natural or human-made causes exists, the Township Supervisor may
declare a local state of emergency. Such a declaration shall be promptly filed
with the Department of State Police, Emergency Management Division. This
declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven
days except with the consent of the Township Board.
   (E)   If the Township Supervisor invokes such power and authority, he or she
shall, as soon as reasonably expedient, convene the Township Board for one or
more emergency meetings in accordance with the Open Meetings Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., to perform its normal legislative and
administrative duties as the situation demands, and will report to that body
relative to emergency activities. Nothing in this resolution shall be construed
as abridging or curtailing the powers of the Township Board unless specifically
provided herein.
   (F)   The Township Supervisor may do one or more of the following under a
local state of emergency:
      (1)   Direct the Emergency Management Coordinator to implement the
emergency operations plan;
      (2)   Issue directives as to travel restrictions on local roads within
the municipality;
      (3)   Relieve township employees of normal duties and temporarily
reassign them to other duties;
      (4)   Activate mutual aid agreements;
      (5)   Direct the overall disaster relief effort, including the disaster
relief force, in accordance with the emergency operations plan;
      (6)   Notify the public and recommend in-place shelter or evacuation
protective measures;
      (7)   Request a state of disaster or emergency declaration from the
Governor as described in §
35.07; and
      (8)   When obtaining normal approvals would result in further inquiry or
damage, the Township Supervisor may, until the Township Board convenes, waive
procedures and formalities otherwise required pertaining to the following:
         (a)   For a period of up to seven days, send the disaster relief force
and resources to the aid of other communities as provided by mutual aid
agreements;
         (b)   For a period of up to seven days appropriate and expend funds
from disaster contingency fund created by this subchapter;
         (c)   For a period of up to seven days make contracts, obtain and
distribute equipment, materials and supplies for disaster purposes;
         (d)   Employ temporary workers;
         (e)   Purchase and distribute supplies, materials and equipment;
         (f)   Make, amend or rescind ordinances or rules necessary for
emergency management purposes which supplement a rule, order or directive
issued by the Governor or a state agency. Such an ordinance or rule shall be
temporary and, upon the Governor’s declaration that a state of disaster or
state of emergency is terminated, shall no longer be in effect; and
         (g)   If a state of disaster or emergency is declared by the Governor,
assign and make available for duty the employees, property or equipment of the
township within or without the physical limits of the township as ordered by
the Governor or the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police in
accordance with the act.
(Prior Code, § II-5.05)
§ 35.07  GOVERNOR’S DECLARATORY REQUEST.
   If a disaster or emergency occurs that has not yet been declared to be a
state of disaster or a state of emergency by the Governor, and the Township
Supervisor determines that the situation is beyond the control of the township,
the Supervisor may request that the Governor declare that a state of disaster
or emergency exists in the township. The Emergency Management Coordinator shall
immediately contact the District Coordinator. The District Coordinator, in
conjunction with the Emergency Management Coordinator, shall assess the nature
and scope of the disaster or emergency, and they shall recommend the state
personnel, services, and equipment that will be required for its prevention,
mitigation or relief.
(Prior Code, § II-5.06)
§ 35.08  TOWNSHIP DEPARTMENTS; LIAISON; DUTIES.
   (A)   Each department of the township identified by the Emergency Management
Coordinator shall appoint an emergency management liaison who shall coordinate
the emergency management activities of that department and act as a liaison
between his or her department and the Emergency Management Office on all
matters pertaining to emergency management.
   (B)   Each department identified, including the office of Supervisor, shall
appoint a minimum of two people to serve as successors in the event the
emergency management liaison is not available or requires assistance.
Successors shall be listed in the appropriate annex to the emergency operations
plan.
   (C)   Each department liaison shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Prepare and continuously update an annex to the township emergency
operations plan providing for the delivery of emergency management activities
by that department. The annex shall be in the form prescribed by the Emergency
Management Coordinator;
      (2)   Recruit private, volunteer and other personnel to be part of the
disaster relief force to perform specific duties as assigned in the emergency
operations plan;
      (3)   Coordinate the agency’s or department’s emergency management
efforts with this or other municipality departments;
      (4)   Attend training courses relevant to the function of the department,
and ensure staff is trained so as to be able to implement assigned emergency
functions;
      (5)   Participate in periodic exercises to enhance the adequacy of the
respective agencies or departments response capability;
      (6)   Develop internal standard operating procedures (SOPs) to accomplish
emergency notification and assigned emergency tasks;
      (7)   Provide the Emergency Management Coordinator with a list of
personnel and resources available within the department and provide a list of
those which may be needed by the department during times of emergency;
      (8)   Identify and provide for the protection of vital records; and
      (9)   Implement the directives of the Township Supervisor or his or her
designee under local state of emergency.
(Prior Code, § II-5.07)
§ 35.09  DISASTER CONTINGENCY FUND.
   A Disaster Contingency Fund is hereby created within the township budget.
Money may be expended from the Fund when a local state of emergency has been
declared for the purpose of paying the disaster relief force, purchase of
supplies and services, repair costs or other needs required specifically for
the mitigation of the effects of, or in response to, the emergency or disaster.
(Prior Code, § II-5.08)
§ 35.10  APPOINTMENT OF VOLUNTEERS.
   The township is authorized to appoint volunteers to augment its personnel in
time of emergency to implement emergency functions assigned in the emergency
operations plan. Such individuals are part of the disaster relief force and
shall be subject to the rules and operational control and shall be reimbursed
for all actual and necessary travel and subsistence expenses.
(Prior Code, § II-5.09)
§ 35.11  RIGHTS, POWERS AND IMMUNITIES OF DISASTER RELIEF FORCE.
   In accordance with the Act, personnel of the disaster relief force while on
duty shall have the following rights:
   (A)   If they are employees of the township, or other governmental agency
regardless of where serving, have the powers, duties, rights, privileges and
immunities and receive the compensation incidental to their employment; and
   (B)   If they are not employees of the township or other governmental
agency, be entitled to the same rights and immunities as are provided for by
law.
(Prior Code, § II-5.10)
§ 35.12  TEMPORARY SEAT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   The Township Board shall provide for the temporary movement and
reestablishment of essential government offices in the event that existing
facilities cannot be used.
(Prior Code, § II-5.11)
§ 35.13  IMMUNITY.
   (A)   As provided for in the act and this subchapter, the township, and the
agents or representatives of the township, shall not be liable for personal
injury or property damage sustained by the disaster relief force. In addition,
any member of the disaster relief force engaged in disaster relief activity
shall not be liable in a civil action for damages resulting from an act or
omission arising out of and in the course of the person’s good faith rendering
of that activity, unless the person’s act or omission was the result of that
person’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. The right of a person to
receive benefits or compensation to which he or she may otherwise be entitled
to under the worker’s compensation law, any pension law or act of congress will
not be effected as a result of said activity.
   (B)   As provided for in the Act, any person owning or controlling real
estate or other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants the
township the right to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part of the
real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons or for any other
disaster related function during a declared local state of emergency or during
an authorized practice disaster exercise, shall not be civilly liable for the
death of, or injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises
under such license, privilege or other permission, or for loss of, or damage
to, the property of such person.
(Prior Code, § II-5.12)
COST REIMBURSEMENT FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 35.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in
the plural include the singular. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not
merely discretionary.
   BOMB THREAT. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which, if discharged as threatened, would violate a federal, state or
local law.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending and/or utilizing public service,
police, firefighting, ambulance or inhalator services by the township to
protect the health, safety or welfare of persons or property located in the
township, including, but not limited to, the release of dangerous or hazardous
substances or materials, utility line failure, false alarm, illegal fire, bomb
threat, threat of harm to oneself or others, structure demolition, extrication,
standby suppression, medical assistance and similar services.
   EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The reasonable costs incurred by the
township in making an emergency response. The reasonable costs shall include
the salary or wages, including overtime pay, of Police Department, Fire
Department and emergency medical service personnel for time spent responding
to, managing, correcting, treating and clean-up of an emergency response and
all persons or property affected thereby. The costs shall also include the cost
of equipment and supplies lost or expended by the Police Department or Fire
Department in responding to the emergency.
   EXTRICATION. The response to, and removal of, individuals from vehicles and/
or structures requiring the assistance of emergency response personnel and/or
equipment.
   FALSE ALARM. Any device designed to request or summon emergency assistance,
which device is activated intentionally or otherwise, in the absence of an
actual need for emergency assistance. The determination that there was no
actual need for emergency assistance shall be made by the most senior person
responding to a FALSE ALARM. A FALSE ALARM shall not be deemed to have occurred
if caused by an act of God or originated from a motor vehicle alarm system.
   ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state or local law and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in
violation of a “no burning” ban or order, but does not include a fire caused by
an act of God.
   MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Providing medical assistance, equipment and personal to
the elderly, the infirm, the handicapped or any individual requiring medical
assistance, transportation or support.
   RELEASE OF DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE OR MATERIAL. The release,
spillage or leakage from its container of any material or substance that has
been identified by the township, state or federal laws or regulations to be
dangerous or hazardous, including, but not limited to, chemicals and gases,
poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents, flammables and corrosives, or obnoxious
by reason of odor, when the party that caused or controlled the release,
spillage or leakage fails to immediately remove the dangerous or hazardous
substance or material and fully restore the area of the release, spillage or
leakage to its condition before the release, spillage or leakage.
   STANDBY SUPPRESSION. The response to circumstances involving or expected to
involve fire suppression, whether fire suppression activity occurs or not.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire which
must, in the opinion of the Building Official or his or her designee, be
promptly demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   THREAT OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another or another’s property, which if carried out
would be a violation of federal, state or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The failure or disabling of operation of a cable,
conduit, wire, pipeline or other transmission device, used to transport
electricity, natural gas, petroleum products, water or sanitary or storm
sewage, when the party responsible for maintaining the cable, conduit, wire,
pipeline or other transmission device fails to undertake repair of the failure
or disabling within a reasonable time, not to exceed one hour for the time a
township representative or employee notifies the party responsible for
repairing the failure or disabling, or when the party responsible fails to
complete repair of the failure or disabling within a reasonable time. This
section shall not apply to communication transmission devices or facilities.
(Prior Code, § II-6.00)
§ 35.26  REIMBURSEMENT; MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION; PENALTY.
   Pursuant to R.S. 1846, c.16, being M.C.L.A. § 41.806a, any person or entity
responsible in part or in whole for an emergency response shall be liable for
the expenses of an emergency response which is hereby set as the fee for such
response. Failure to pay the expenses of an emergency response within 30 days
of written demand shall be a municipal civil infraction subject to a fine not
to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § II-6.01)
§ 35.27  DUTY TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   It shall be the duty of any person and any other entity which causes or
controls leakage, spillage or any other dissemination of dangerous or hazardous
substance or materials to immediately remove such and clean up the area of the
spillage in a manner that the area involved is fully restored to its condition
before such occurrence.
(Prior Code, § II-6.02)
§ 35.28  FAILURE TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   Any person or entity which fails to comply with §
35.27 shall be liable to and shall pay the township for its costs and expenses,
including the costs incurred by the township or any party which it engages, for
the complete abatement, clean up, and restoration of the affected areas. Costs
incurred by the township shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited
to, the following: actual labor costs of the township personnel, including
worker’s compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead, costs
of equipment operation, costs of materials obtained directly by the township
and cost of any contract labor and materials.
(Prior Code, § II-6.03)
§ 35.29  ENFORCEMENT.
   The township shall have the right to bring an action in the appropriate
court to collect such costs if it deems such action to be necessary.
(Prior Code, § II-6.04)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
      
51.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
52.   EMERGENCY WATER USE REDUCTION
      
53.   WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
      
54.   YPSILANTI COMMUNITY UTILITIES AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Purpose and findings
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Administration
   
50.04   Collection; licensing
   
50.05   Recycling of solid waste
   
50.06   Solid waste hauler duties and responsibilities
   
50.07   Owner responsibility
   
50.08   Hours of collection
   
50.09   Storage of solid waste
   
50.10   Weekly collection
   
50.11   Prohibitions
   
50.12   License procedure
   
50.13   Regulations and duties of licensees
   
50.14   Refusal or revocation of license
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et
seq. and Public Act  451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.
§ 50.01  PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health
and welfare by assuring the timely and lawful collection of solid waste from
owners of private property within the township; to implement well articulated
public policies regarding the recycling and composting of certain portions of
the wastestream and collection thereof; and to provide for a reasonable system
of user fees to defray the costs incurred by the township in administering the
system.
   (B)   Findings. The Board of Trustees of the township finds that regulation
of the collection and disposal of solid waste is necessary to protect the
public health and safety; that, under current circumstances, it is feasible to
implement curbside pickup and disposal of residential recyclable materials,
compostables and solid waste and that such implementation will be most
efficiently accomplished by the township entering into a contract for
provisions of services; and that, at this time, it is not feasible to require
separation of recyclable materials and compostables from other solid waste for
persons using commercial receptacles for collection of their solid waste.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.00)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL BY-PRODUCTS.  Bones, offal, fats, rawhides and other inedible
trimmings from animal carcass used or to be used in the manufacture or
processing of inedible products.
   APPLICANT.  An individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation or
association.
   ASHES.  The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, refuse, wastewater
sludge or other combustible materials.
   CLERK.  The duly elected or acting Clerk of the Charter Township of
Plymouth.
   COMPOSTABLES.  Leaves, grass clippings, brush, wood debris under six inches
in diameter, vegetative pruning, garden waste, yard waste, Christmas trees and
wreaths.
   CURBSIDE COLLECTION.  The collection of solid waste which has been placed
for pickup in appropriate solid waste receptacles at the side of a public or
private road adjacent to the abutting private property.
   GARBAGE.  Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal,
fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable.
   PERSON.  An individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, association or
corporation, public or private, organized or existing under the laws of this
state or any other state, including a federal corporation.
   PRIVATE COLLECTOR.  Any person, persons, firm, partnership or corporation to
whom has been issued a private collector’s license. This term shall not refer
to the township’s contractor.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.  Those items listed in §
50.05(B)(1).
   RUBBISH.  Non-putrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible waste, including paper, cardboard, metal
containers, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, demolished building materials or
litter of any kind that may be a detriment to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE.  Compostables, garbage, rubbish, recyclable materials, ashes,
incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street cleanings, municipal and
industrial sludges, and solid commercial and solid industrial waste, animal
waste, but does not include human body waste, liquid or other waste regulated
by statute, ferrous or non-ferrous scrap directed to a scrap metal processor or
to a re-user of ferrous or non-ferrous products, or animal by-products.
   SOLID WASTE HAULER.  A person who owns or operates a solid waste
transporting unit.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSPORTING UNIT.  A container which may be an integral part of
a truck or other piece of equipment used for the transportation of solid waste.
   SUPERVISOR.  A duly elected or acting supervisor of the Charter Township of
Plymouth.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Plymouth.
   TOWNSHIP CONTRACTOR.  A private individual, firm, partnership or corporation
collecting and disposing of municipal solid waste pursuant to a duly authorized
and executed agreement or contract with the township, to provide services at a
certain rate or price.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.01)
§ 50.03  ADMINISTRATION.
   The operation and administration of this chapter shall be under the
direction of the Township Board.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Supervisor of the township,
through his or her proper agents and officers to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and to make rules and regulations for the administration of the same.
   (B)   Township contract for solid waste collection authority of township to
contract for solid waste collection. Whenever in the judgment of the Township
Board such action may be necessary or advisable, they may determine to have the
township enter into a contract or contracts and to grant a license or licenses
to persons as they may deem best able to collect solid waste, separated between
recyclable and nonrecyclable materials, in the township in accordance with the
best interest of the township and its citizens. The contract shall be for such
terms as they may determine, but not to exceed in any instance five years for a
non-exclusive contract and two years for an exclusive contract, and such
contract may be, but need not be, exclusive, and the Township Board may
authorize the making on the part of the township of one or more contracts and
if they determine it necessary, may limit the contract to a certain part of the
township, or to certain types of premises, such as residential, commercial,
industrial and the like.
   (C)   Contract; award by Board; basis. The contract or contracts shall be
awarded on a competitive basis, and the Board shall be responsible for the
control of letting and making such contract or contracts. The procedures
established by the township policies and all ordinances in connection with the
awarding of contracts shall be observed.
   (D)   Contract; bond requirements. Each person entering into a contract with
the township for the collection and disposal of solid waste shall furnish the
township with a performance bond in an amount established by the Township Board
and in such form as may be approved by the Township Attorney, which bond shall
be signed by an approved corporate surety authorized to do business in this
state and which bond shall be conditioned on the satisfactory performance of
all obligations assumed under the particular contract, and further conditioned
on the due observance during the term of the contract of all laws of the state
or ordinance, of the township and all legal rights of all persons who are
served by or injured by the contractor.
   (E)   Contract; insurance requirements.
      (1)   Each township contractor shall procure and maintain during the life
of the contract, owner’s and contractor’s protective public liability and
property damage insurance, in the name of the township, in an amount not less
than $3,000,000 for injuries, including accidental death, to each person; and
subject to the same limit for each person, in an amount not less than
$3,000,000 on account of each accident, and $1,000,000 aggregate for damage to
property.
         (a)   The insurance includes motor vehicle exposure and specific
coverage, by endorsement, as required by the Supervisor.    
         (b)   Each township contractor shall deposit with the Clerk
certificates of insurance indicating this coverage prior to the execution of
the contract.
      (2)   The township may require of township contractors other bonds and
insurance, including worker’s compensation insurance, to insure the township
that the obligations of the contractor will be sufficiently performed and/or
discharged and to protect the township in the event that they are not.
   (F)   Contractor’s license; issuance. The Township Clerk shall issue to the
contractor immediately after the execution of the contract a license, without
charge, to collect solid waste as required by the terms and conditions of the
contract for the period of the contract.
   (G)   License and contract not assignable. No license or contract issued,
granted or entered into, to any township contractor under the provisions of
this chapter, shall be transferable, assignable or sublet without the express
permission of the Township Board in the form of a resolution, unless otherwise
provided in the contract.
   (H)   Frequency and extent. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and
other ordinances, and except in the case of an emergency arising from an act of
God or under circumstances over which the Division of Public Services of the
township or the township contractor has or had no control, solid waste shall be
collected, removed and disposed of no less frequently than once each week from
premises to be served by the township contractor.
   (I)   User charge. If the township enters into a contract pursuant to this
section, a user charge shall be established by resolution of the Township Board
and imposed on all residents of the township to be served by such contract
reasonably calculated to defray the cost of providing the service. The charge
shall be assessed to each resident, and the Township Board has the discretion
to include the charge as part of the residents’ water and sewer billing. For
all bills not paid when due and payable, a penalty of 5% of the amount of the
bills shall be added thereto.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.02)
§ 50.04  COLLECTION; LICENSING.
   (A)   License required. All solid waste shall be collected from persons or
property within the township only by a person licensed as a solid waste hauler
by the township. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a solid
waste hauler in the township without first obtaining a license as herein
provided.
   (B)   Interference with collection. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than township street and alley cleaners, licensed solid waste haulers or
other authorized persons to interfere with solid waste placed in the streets,
alleys and public places of the township for collection by licensed solid waste
haulers, or to interfere in any way with solid waste receptacles in the
township.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.03)
§ 50.05  RECYCLING OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   General rule and effective date. Commencing September 4, 1990, it
shall be unlawful for any person who owns, possesses, controls, supervises or
occupies private property within the township which has available curbside
collection of solid waste to commingle recyclable materials with other solid
waste or to place it out for collection other than as provided in this section.
   (B)   Recyclable solid waste. All recyclable material shall be separated
from other garbage and refuse and grouped together and placed for collection.
Recyclable material shall consist of and be contained as follows.
      (1)   Generally. Brown, green and clear glass bottles, jars and
containers; ferrous and non ferrous cans and bottles; and polyethylene
terephtalate (PET) and high density polyethylene plastics (HDPE) as listed in
Public Act of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.1601 et seq., whether or not labeled in
accordance with the Act, are recyclable and shall be placed together in the
approved recyclable container and placed out for collection.
      (2)   Newsprint. All newsprint shall be bundled or bagged or placed out
for collection. Newsprint shall not be mixed with any other solid waste.
      (3)   Compostables. Compostables shall be placed in approved bags and
placed out for collection for the period of time from April 1 through November
30 of each and every year.
   (C)   Collection.
      (1)   Placement for collection. Recyclable materials shall be made
accessible for collection in the same locations as nonrecyclables solid waste.
      (2)   Time of placement for collection of recyclable refuse. All
recyclable refuse shall be placed for collection at the same time as other
solid waste is placed for collection.
      (3)   Donation to others. Nothing in this chapter is intended to prevent
any person from donating or selling recyclable materials to any person, club,
business, civic organization, charitable organization or any other
organization.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.04)
§ 50.06  SOLID WASTE HAULER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Commencing September 4, 1990, it shall be unlawful for any licensed
solid waste hauler to accept from private property within the township, which
has available curbside collection of solid waste, recyclable materials
commingled with other solid waste, and to transport recyclable materials to a
licensed disposal area other than a facility for their processing. The solid
waste hauler shall establish and implement a recycling program consisting of
weekly curbside collection of recyclables, transportation and delivery to a
materials recovery facility, and an educational program to advise customers of
the benefits of recycling.
   (B)   The curbside collection of recyclable material shall include the
following.
      (1)   Providing storage containers. The solid waste hauler shall provide
an in-home recycling container to each customer for the storage of recyclables.
The container shall be plastic and manufactured using at least 25% recycled
materials.
      (2)   Collection of recyclables. The solid waste hauler shall collect
recyclable materials as defined in this chapter and shall be responsible to
deliver all recyclable materials other than compostables to a material recovery
facility (M.R.F.) All compostables collected for the period of time from April
1 through November 30 of each and every year shall be delivered to a composting
facility. Recyclable materials shall not be disposed of in a disposal area, as
defined in Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as
amended.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.05)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person who is a resident of the township or who owns, possesses,
controls, supervises or occupies land or premises within the township shall
cause or permit any solid waste, including recyclable materials, to be
collected from such person or person’s premises by any person other than a
solid waste hauler licensed by the township.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.06)
§ 50.08  HOURS OF COLLECTION.
   No solid waste shall be collected from persons or property within 500 feet
of a residential unit between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of one day and 7:00 a.m.
of the next succeeding day unless the Township Supervisor has issued written
authorization for the collection after having duly considered the means and
location of the collection and determined no offensive noise or nuisance will
be occasioned adjacent residences.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.07)
§ 50.09  STORAGE OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Every person who owns, possesses, controls, supervises or occupies
private property within the township shall be responsible for placing and
keeping solid waste arising from the use or occupation of the property in
receptacles designed and constructed for such and which prevent the emission of
odors and the broadcasting of pieces.
   (B)   Further, the receptacles shall be impervious to weather, safe from
destruction by animals and hygienic, provided plastic bags with a thickness not
less than one and one-half millimeters shall be deemed to meet the requirements
of this division (B).
      (1)   Rubbish that is larger than can be conveniently contained in
receptacles shall be securely tied in compact bundles not to exceed 50 pounds
in weight and placed in a location convenient for collection. Parts of trees
shall not exceed three feet in length nor shall they exceed ten inches in
diameter.
      (2)   Solid waste resulting from the operation of commercial, industrial
or other business enterprise may be placed and kept in commercial receptacles
of a size and construction to facilitate pick up by a licensed solid waste
hauler. The commercial receptacles shall be constructed of substantial metal,
shall be water-tight and shall have tight-fitting covers.
      (3)   Solid waste resulting from the usual routine of housekeeping and
residential living may be placed and kept in portable receptacles of
substantial metal or plastic construction with handles and a tight-fitting
cover. Plastic bags of sufficient thickness to meet the purposes of this
section may be used in place of metal or plastic portable receptacles for such
domestic solid waste. No single receptacle or bag shall weigh more than 50
pounds when filled.
      (4)   In the case of a building housing more than two families, the
receptacles shall be provided by the owner of the premises and shall be
commercial receptacles unless the curbside collection of solid waste is
available.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the owner, contractor or other person
responsible for construction work to remove from the premises within a
reasonable time after the completion of the construction work all surplus
construction materials and building refuse materials.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.08)
§ 50.10  WEEKLY COLLECTION.
   Every person who owns, possesses, controls, supervises or occupies private
property in the township shall cause all solid waste to be collected from the
property at least once each week. If the collection is to be provided by the
township pursuant to contract, the person’s responsibility shall be to place
such solid waste at its usual collection point. Every person shall limit the
time when receptacles are placed on public property or private property beyond
the front line of any residence to the period of 6:00 p.m. of the day prior to
the regularly scheduled solid waste collection day and 12 hours following the
act of collection by the licensed solid waste hauler.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.09)
§ 50.11  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No solid waste shall be kept in open containers or piled,
placed, dumped, or disposed of on any land within the township.
   (B)   Burning prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn
garbage or rubbish any place within the township other than in incinerators
located inside of the buildings and approved by the Chief of the Township Fire
Department or some person designated by him or her. It shall be unlawful for
any person to burn leaves and yard waste any place within the township.
   (C)   Safety. No person shall deposit, spill or leave any matter or thing
whatsoever on either public or private property or cause the same to be done
which may result in injury or damage to person, animal or property.
   (D)   Scattering. It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or leave
any matter or thing whatsoever on either public or private property or cause
the same to be done, which will result in or contribute toward any unsightly
conditions within the township.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.10)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12  LICENSE PROCEDURE.
   All solid waste haulers collecting solid waste from persons or property
within the township shall be required to have a duly issued and in effect
license pursuant to the following procedure.
   (A)   The Township Clerk and the office of the Township Clerk shall
administer the issuance of the license.
   (B)   Each license shall be effective for a term expiring on January 30 next
following the date of issuance, unless earlier suspended or revoked.
   (C)   The fee for a solid waste haulers’ license shall be $25 plus $5 for
each solid waste transporting unit and each commercial receptacle owned or
utilized by the licensed solid waste hauler. Each additional solid waste
transporting unit and each additional commercial receptacle placed in service
after a new or renewal application has been filed shall be notified to the
Township Clerk and accompanied by the aforesaid unit fee before the Clerk may
issue the decal.
   (D)   A license shall be issued to the solid waste hauler applicant and a
decal for each solid waste transporting unit and commercial receptacle of the
applicant. The license shall be displayed at the licensee’s principal place of
business and produced for inspection by any representative of the township or
customer upon request to the licensee. The decal shall be permanently affixed
to and maintained upon the solid waste transporting unit or commercial
receptacle in a clearly visible location.
   (E)   A license shall not be granted to an applicant unless the applicant
submits an application in a form and containing information concerning the
identity, experience, officers and employees, equipment, economic integrity,
proof of access to and use of an adequate and approvable materials recovery
facility (M.R.F.), composting facility and a licensed disposal area, and
pertinent facts of the applicant as the Township Clerk may from time to time
require for the purpose of determining whether the applicant meets all of the
requirements of a solid waste hauler and the solid waste transporting units
established by the Director of the Department of Natural Resources pursuant to
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq., and rules promulgated pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§
24.201 et seq., as amended, all of which detailed technical regulations are
adopted by reference and incorporated herein by reference.
   (F)   Each solid waste transporting unit and each commercial receptacle
shall be inspected in accordance with procedures established by the Clerk to
determine that the solid waste hauler has in operation only units and
receptacles which are proper, hygienic and not contributory to litter. The
Clerk may accept as complying with this chapter, any solid waste transporting
unit which has been inspected and approved by the Director of the Department of
Natural Resources pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1955, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq., as amended, and the rules promulgated pursuant to Public Act
306 of 1969, M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq., as amended, all of which detailed
regulations are adopted by reference and incorporated herein by reference, for
the period of the effectiveness of the approval.
   (G)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a bond running
to the township in the penal sum of not less than the amount of one year
revenue to be realized by the licensee from the township residents in such form
as may be approved by the Township Attorney, which bond shall be signed by an
approved surety duly authorized to do business in the state, and which bond
shall be conditioned on the due observance during the time of the license of
all of the laws of the state, the ordinances of the township and the approved
rules and regulations of the Supervisor pertaining to the collection, removal
and transportation of solid waste and all legal rights of all persons who are
served by or injured by the licensee. Any persons aggrieved by the action of
any private collector licensee shall have a right of action on the bond for the
recovery of the damages. The bond shall remain in full force and effect for a
period of 90 days after the expiration or cancellation of any license. Each
licensee shall maintain for each vehicle, the security required by law, and
additional security sufficient to pay $1,000,000 for one person injured in an
accident, and $1,000,000 for all other persons injured in an accident, and
shall deposit, prior to the issuance of the license, certificates of insurance
with the Township Clerk indicating such coverage. The solid waste hauler
licensee shall obtain and keep in full force and effect insurance to protect
the public against risk of loss from liability, including damage to property
and injury to person, in a sum not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence caused
by the actions or operations of the licensee, its officers, employees and
agents. Further, the township may require of private and township contractors
other bonds of insurance including worker’s compensation insurance to insure
the township that the obligations of the contractors will be sufficiently
performed and discharged, and the safety of the township will be protected in
the event that they are not.
   (H)   If the applicant meets the requirements of this chapter, meets the
requirements and rules promulgated pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1955, as
amended, agrees to abide by this and all other applicable township ordinances,
including, but not limited to, site plans prepared pursuant to the zoning
ordinance, and pays the applicable fees, then the Clerk shall issue a license
to the applicant and for each acceptable solid waste transporting unit and
commercial receptacle.
   (I)   No license or contract issued, granted or entered into with any
contractor under the provision of this chapter shall be assignable or sublet
without the express written permission of the Township Board.
   (J)   Each private contractor may fix and determine reasonable rates to be
charged for this service. In the event any person dealing with a private
contractor is aggrieved by the rates fixed for the service, the Township Board
reserves the right, upon appeal by the person, to fix and determine the
reasonable rates to be charged by the private collector licensee.
Notwithstanding the above, the Township Board hereby reserves the right to fix
and determine, at any time, a schedule of reasonable rates to be charged by all
private collector licensees for the collection, transportation and disposal of
commercial, building and industrial refuse.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.11)
§ 50.13  REGULATIONS AND DUTIES OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   No solid waste hauler licensee shall require a customer to deposit or
prepay collection charges for a period in advance greater than three calendar
months.
   (B)   No solid waste hauler licensee shall collect from residential
customers less frequently than weekly (legal holidays, strikes and acts of God
excluded).
   (C)   No solid waste hauler licensee shall dispose of collected solid waste
other than by means of licensed solid waste transporting units and at disposal
areas or facilities licensed pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq.; provided
that recyclables shall be transported to materials recovery facility; provided
further that during the period of time from April 1 through November 30 of each
and every year, compostables shall be transported to composting facilities and
shall not be transported to any sanitary landfill for disposal.
   (D)   The Township Supervisor shall have the authority to designate from
time to time the streets and highways upon which the solid waste hauler
licensee may transport solid waste transporting units.
   (E)   The township shall have the authority to designate a particular
property or condition as a public health hazard due to solid waste generation,
accumulation or storage, and upon notice to a solid waste hauler licensee, the
Supervisor may require the licensee to cooperate and assist in the collection
of solid waste for the purpose of reducing or eliminating the public health
hazard; provided, the township shall pay the reasonable and customary charges
of the licensee related to providing required collection and the township shall
be entitled to receive full reimbursement of the charges from the person who
owns, possesses, controls, supervises or occupies the aforesaid particular
property.
   (F)   Each solid waste hauler licensee shall designate an employee or agent
to regularly answer all complaints made, and to properly dispose of same.
   (G)   Each solid waste hauler licensee shall pay any judgment which may be
obtained against the township, whether alone or with the licensee on account of
any injury, or damage to any person or property by reason of any license
granted hereunder and the licensee upon demand of the township shall intervene
and defend any suit or action thereof upon notice thereof given by the Clerk to
the licensee.
   (H)   Solid waste transporting units used by the licensee in the collection
and disposal of solid waste under the provisions of this chapter shall have, on
both sides thereof, the name of the licensee and business plain, unobscured
letters that are visible to members of the community.
   (I)   Each solid waste hauler licensee shall collect solid waste by emptying
the contents of the receptacle into the licensee’s solid waste transporting
unit and returning the receptacle to the place on the customer’s property from
which it was removed, replacing the cover. All receptacles shall be so handled
and emptied that no garbage is spilled on the premises of the customer nor in
any street area.
   (J)   The solid waste hauler licensee shall so load the solid waste
transporting unit that as soon as any compartment of the licensee’s solid waste
transporting unit is filled, the same shall be immediately covered with a metal
cover.
   (K)   The transportation of all garbage, offal, rubbish or other waste
materials through the streets, alleys, thoroughfares of the township shall be
conducted in a manner as to create no nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to transport, cart, carry or convey through or over
any of the streets, alleys or public places of the township any garbage,
unwashed refuse or unwashed food containers without the written consent of the
Township Board. Whenever the permission is granted, the vehicle used for such
purposes shall be water-tight and provided with a suitable covering. It shall
be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to transport or to otherwise
convey through or over any of the public streets or public places of the
township any rubbish or other waste material except under written regulations
or with the written consent of the Township Board, except rubbish or waste
material accumulating on property owned or controlled by him or her and then
only by approved methods of conveyance.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.12)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14  REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any application for a license may be refused and any license issued under
this chapter may be revoked by the Supervisor when the applicant or licensee
has made a false or fraudulent statement in such application or in the
operation of his or her business, or whenever the business is conducted in an
unlawful manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a
menace to the health and welfare of the public, or whenever the applicant or
licensee is unable to satisfactorily meet or perform the requirements and
provisions of this chapter, and the approved rules and regulations of the
Township Board. Upon written complaint setting forth the reasons for denial,
suspension or revocation of a license filed by the Supervisor with the Clerk,
the Clerk shall call a meeting of the Township Board with notice to the
applicant or licensee in order to consider the complaint and conduct a hearing
thereon. At the hearing, the applicant or licensee may introduce evidence on
its behalf and confront all opposing witnesses. Upon a finding by a majority of
the members of the Township Board present at the hearing of a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the license may be denied, suspended or revoked.
The applicant or licensee may have a right to appeal any adverse decision of
the Township Board to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.13)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply
with any provision of this code, other than §
50.05, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply
with §
50.05 shall be liable for a civil infraction and shall be assessed the
following civil fines:
      (1)   For the first violation, a fine as determined by the comprehensive
fee schedule; and
      (2)   For the second or subsequent violation, a fine as determined by the
comprehensive fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § IX-1.14)
CHAPTER 51:  CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Compliance
   
51.04   Prohibitions
   
51.05   Corrections
   
51.06   Secondary sources
   
51.07   Private water storage tanks
   
51.08   Utility count of employees
   
51.09   Inspections
   
51.10   Discontinuance of service
   
51.11   Unsafe water
   
51.12   Fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 407 of 2016, M.C.L.A. §§ 339.5101 et
seq., as amended
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, as       amended
   Similar provision, see Public Act 399 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.1001
through 325.1023, as  amended
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 333.1101 et
seq., as amended
§ 51.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, provide for
supervision and control over the public water supply, prohibit certain cross-
connections, provide for the administration and fees applicable to regulating
and inspecting and for the elimination and prevention of prohibited cross-
connections. This chapter does not and is not intended to supersede other laws
or ordinances governing plumbing or the public water supply system; rather, the
intent is to supplement other controls.
(Prior Code, § X-1.00)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow or the flow of
any foreign liquids, gasses or other substances into a potable water system
from any source other than the intended one.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which a backflow could occur.
   PUBLIC WATER or PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The water or water supply system of the
Charter Township of Plymouth Water and Sewer Department.
   SAFE AIR GAP. The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall not be less than two times the
inside diameter of the water inlet pipe but shall not be less than one inch and
need not be more than 12 inches.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY. A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from ground
or surface sources not meeting the requirements of state law, or water from a
public water supply which in any way has been treated, processed or exposed to
any possible contaminant or stored in other than an approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET. A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY. A governmental unit, municipal or private corporation,
association, partnership or individual engaged in furnishing water to the
public for household or drinking purposes.
(Prior Code, § X-1.01)
§ 51.03  COMPLIANCE.
   A connection with a public water supply system shall comply with the
existing laws, ordinances and rules, including:
   (A)   Public Act 407 of 2016, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.5101 et seq., as
amended;
   (B)   Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., as
amended;
   (C)   This chapter;
   (D)   Rules regulating acceptable protection against cross-connections
adopted from time to time by the Township Board;
   (E)   Public Act 399 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.1001 et seq., as
amended, and rules promulgated by the State Department of Environmental Quality
under the authority thereof;
   (F)   Wayne County Environmental Health Code, Articles I, II and IX,
effective September 1, 1977, as amended; and
   (G)   Public Act 368 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1201 et seq.
and rules by the Michigan Department of Community Health and Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality under the authority thereof.
(Prior Code, § X-1.02)
§ 51.04  PROHIBITIONS.
   Prohibited cross-connections are the following:
   (A)   A cross-connection shall not be made between a public water supply
system and a secondary water supply;
   (B)   A cross-connection shall not be made by submerged inlet;
   (C)   A cross-connection shall not be made between a public water supply and
piping which may contain sanitary waste or chemical contaminant;
   (D)   A cross-connection shall not be made between a public water supply
system and piping immersed in a tank or vessel which may contain a contaminant;
   (E)   A backflow shall constitute a prohibited cross-connection; and
   (F)   A reasonably foreseen potential backflow shall constitute a prohibited
cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § X-1.03)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  CORRECTIONS.
   (A)   A user of public water shall obtain written approval by the water
utility or authorized inspection agency of any proposed corrective action or
protective device before using it or installing it.
   (B)   The total time allowed for completion of the necessary corrections
shall be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include the time
required to obtain and install equipment. If the cross-connection has not been
removed after a reasonable period of time, the water utility shall physically
separate the public water supply from the on-site piping system in such a
manner that the two systems cannot again be connected by any unauthorized
person.
   (C)   All testable backflow prevention devices shall be tested initially
upon installation to be sure that the device is working properly. Subsequent
testing of devices shall be conducted at a time interval specified by the water
utility and in accordance with the State Department of Environmental Quality
requirements. Only individuals approved by the water utility shall be qualified
to perform testing, and individuals shall certify the results of the testing.
(Prior Code, § X-1.04)
§ 51.06  SECONDARY SOURCES.
   When a secondary water source is used in addition to a public water supply
system, exposed public water and secondary water piping shall be identified by
distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced
readily in its entirety. If piping is so installed that it is impossible to
trace it in its entirety, it will be necessary to protect the public water
supply at the service connection in a manner acceptable to the State Department
of Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § X-1.05)
§ 51.07  PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS.
   A private water storage tank supplied from a public water supply system
shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for
potable water usage.
(Prior Code, § X-1.06)
§ 51.08  UTILITY COUNT OF EMPLOYEES.
   The employees or agents of the water utility and the employees or agents of
the County Public Health Department, as may be designated from time to time by
the Supervisor or the Township Board, shall be the persons authorized to
inspect and enforce this chapter and shall be defined as the authorized
inspection agency.
(Prior Code, § X-1.07)
§ 51.09  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The employees or agents of the authorized inspections agency shall
have the right to enter upon any property served by a connection to the public
water supply for the purpose of inspecting the plumbing system or piping
systems for cross-connections.
   (B)   The owner, lessee or occupant of any property served by public water
shall promptly furnish to the employees or agents of the authorized inspection
agency all information which may be requested concerning the plumbing system or
piping systems on the property.
   (C)   The refusal to permit entry as provided in division (A) above or to
furnish information as provided in division (B) above shall prima facie
constitute the property as containing prohibited cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § X-1.08)
§ 51.10  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The water utility may discontinue water service to any customer, user or
property served by or containing a prohibited cross-connection. Public water
supply to the discontinued customer, user or property shall not be restored
until the authorized inspection agency shall certify a prohibited cross-
connection no longer exists and until all charges and fees of the public water
supply and of the authorized inspection agency have been fully paid.
(Prior Code, § X-1.09)
§ 51.11  UNSAFE WATER.
   Any water outlet which could be used for potable water purposes and which is
not supplied by public water or by an approved potable system shall be labeled
in a conspicuous manner as “water unsafe for drinking”. The owner, lessee or
occupants of property upon which a water outlet is located or any of them shall
be individually responsible for creating and maintaining the presence of the
label.
(Prior Code, § X-1.10)
§ 51.12  FEES.
   The owner, lessee or occupant of property inspected for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or any of them shall pay to the township a fee set
by resolution of the Board of Trustees for the inspection.
(Prior Code, § X-1.11)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § X-1.12)
CHAPTER 52:  EMERGENCY WATER USE REDUCTION
Section
   
52.01   Title; authorization
   
52.02   Conditions
   
52.03   Announcing declaration
   
52.04   Prohibition of water use during water use reduction emergency
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq., as amended
§ 52.01  TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Emergency Water Use Reduction Ordinance”
and shall read as follows.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation whose premises are supplied by water
by the township shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter, and to all
rules and regulations of the Public Works Manager pertaining to use of township
water.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for the Public Works Manager, or his or her
designate, to enter upon the premises of any person using township water to
install meters for measuring water used and to inspect the meters and other
fixtures and appurtenances pertaining to the water works system.
   (C)   Code Enforcement Officers of the township and police officers of the
township are hereby authorized to issue ordinance violation notices and/or
ordinance violation citations to any person or persons, firm or corporation
violating any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation duly adopted
in pursuance of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § X-2.00)
§ 52.02  CONDITIONS.
   The following are conditions warranting declaration of a water use reduction
emergency.
   (A)   A prolonged drought or other system-wide heavy demand period that
results in supply facilities, including system pump stations and reservoirs,
being operated at their optimum capacity with no apparent means immediately
available to adequately maintain flows and residual pressure throughout the
system.
   (B)   Any emergency condition that may arise which will negatively affect
operating flows and residual pressures in any substantial portion of the
township water system for any appreciable length of time.
(Prior Code, § X-2.01)
§ 52.03  ANNOUNCING DECLARATION.
   Upon declaration of a water use reduction emergency by the City of Detroit
Water and Sewer Department, the State Department of Public Health or the
township, the township shall announce the declaration by use of public radio or
television and newspapers with normal operating range covering the community.
The Public Works Manager or his or her designate shall implement whatever
reductions are necessary to meet the water reduction requirements.
(Prior Code, § X-2.02)
§ 52.04  PROHIBITION OF WATER USE DURING WATER USE REDUCTION EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water use reduction emergency as outlined in
§§
52.02 and
52.03, every person, firm or corporation whose premises are supplied with water
by the township shall refrain from watering or using water provided by the
township in any way prohibited by the water use reduction emergency
declaration. The prohibition shall remain in effect 24 hours per day, seven
days per week until the township has declared an end to the water use reduction
emergency or the township determines that a limited prohibition will be
sufficient to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   The Public Works Manager or his or her designate may provide
exceptions to division (A) above where necessary to prevent imminent financial
loss to a water user.
(Prior Code, § X-2.03)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall willfully violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or engagement in community service, or
any combination of the fine, imprisonment or community service, plus any costs
involved in shutting off the water.
(Prior Code, § X-2.04)
CHAPTER 53:  WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Fiscal year system
Rates and Charges
   
53.015   Water rates
   
53.016   Sewer system rates
   
53.017   Use factor schedule
   
53.018   Transition rules for water and sewer benefit charges amendments
   
53.019   Industrial waste control (IWC) charge; residential unit defined
   
53.020   Sewer connection rates
   
53.021   Rate appeals
Service Generally
   
53.035   Water and sewer applications
   
53.036   Billings
   
53.037   Enforcement
   
53.038   Prohibition of free service
   
53.039   Interior meters; basements or cellars
   
53.040   Interior meters
   
53.041   Exterior meter readers
   
53.042   Disclaimer of warranties and liability
   
53.043   Funds
   
53.044   Connection
   
53.045   Sump pump collection systems
   
53.046   Water conservation devices; non-contact wastewater
   
53.047   Additional authority
   
53.048   Books and records
   
53.049   Industrial surveillance permit fee
Wastewater
   
53.060   Industrial waste surcharge and industrial waste pretreatment;
discharge to Detroit Water and Sewer Department
   
53.061   Purpose
 
   
53.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Clean Water Act, see 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 178 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.161
through 123.167, as amended
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 342 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 46.171
through 46.185, as amended
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 185 of 1957, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731
through 123.786, as amended
   Similar provisions, see Public Law 92-500, as amended
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ratify and affirm the water and sewer
system of the township by providing water and sewer benefits and services to
persons and property within the township and to further protect and preserve
the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § X-3.01)
§ 53.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INFILTRATION.
      (1)   Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
sewer service connections and foundation drains) from the ground through such
means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manholes.
      (2)   INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFLOW.
      (1)   Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
sewer service connections from sources such as, but not limited to, roof
leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, drains from springs and
swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections between storm sewers and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage.
      (2)   INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
   SYSTEM. The township water and sewer system and all sewage disposal or water
supply and distribution facilities or both owned, operated or maintained by the
township, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewers, combined sanitary and
storm sewers, storm sewers, watermains and lines, wells and all works,
instrumentalities and properties used or useful in connection with the
collection, treatment or disposal of sewage or storm waters or the supply,
treatment and distribution of water.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Plymouth;
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the township.
   WATER BONDS or SEWER BONDS. Any and all bonds issued by the township for
paying the cost of construction, maintenance or operation of the system.
   WATER CONTRACT or SEWER CONTRACT. Any and all contracts executed by and
between the township and any other governmental entity or agency for the
purpose of effecting the uses and purposes of the system.
(Prior Code, § X-3.02)
§ 53.003  FISCAL YEAR SYSTEM.
   The system shall have an operating or fiscal year commencing on January 1 of
each year and ending on December 31 of the same year.
(Prior Code, § X-3.03)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.015  WATER RATES.
   (A)   Consumption rates. The consumption rate shall be set by Township Board
resolution.
   (B)   Service charge. In addition to the consumption charges, a quarterly
and monthly service charge shall be assessed based on meter size as set by
Township Board resolution.
   (C)   Minimum water rates. Minimum rates shall be charged in addition to the
appropriate service charge and capital charge as set by Township Board
resolution.
   (D)   Water tap charge.
      (1)   The township water tap charge includes the total cost of
installation of water service, including labor, materials, inspection fee and
meter. The work is performed by the township and relates to the size of
service. The water tap charge shall be set by Township Board resolution.
      (2)   The water tap charge is determined by the road width of the
property address requesting service with the following exceptions:
         (a)   In the event the property is a corner lot with service available
on either side, the charge will be the less of the two charges, if there is a
difference;
         (b)   For properties that are located on boundary roads of the
township, the charge will be based on the applicable rate for a zero to 60-foot
road if the watermain is on the same side of the road; and
         (c)   Water taps to the system which involve pipe sized other than
three-fourths or one inch are allowed upon application to the Water and Sewer
Department and the cost of the installation shall be the sole responsibility of
the applicant in accordance with the application.
   (E)   Water benefit charges.
      (1)   Water benefit charges shall consist of two parts: a trunk and
transmission fee and use factor fee.
         (a)   A use factor fee for water-capital shall be set by Township
Board resolution. The number of units charged is determined by the use factor
schedule in §
53.017.
         (b)   Water trunk and transmission fee for taps to the water system
shall be set by Township Board resolution.
      (2)   (a)   The use factor fee and the trunk and transmission fee for
existing single-family residences may be paid in time payments. The payments
must be paid on a quarterly basis within a five-year period. A 12% average
annual interest charge will be applied to the outstanding debt.
      Illustration:
      $1,000 debt + ($1,000 x 12% x 5 years x 0.5) = $1,000+ $300= $1,300
         (b)   The payments will be referred to as water debt service. No
discount on principal, will be allowed for early payment of debt.
      (3)   Water benefit charges for all new construction shall be paid in
full when making application to connect and shall be paid prior to the issuance
of a building permit by the township, except as provided in division (E)(4)
below.
      (4)   A subdivider or developer may pay the use factor fee based upon the
use factor fee for each unit of the subdivision or development prior to the
start of the development, or may pay such use factor fee in time payments. If a
subdivider or developer chooses to pay such use factor fee in time payments,
one-third of the use factor fee (the “initial use factor fee”) shall be paid
prior to the start of the development. The remainder shall be the “installment
balance” and shall be paid to the township by the developer or subdivider on a
per unit basis at the time of application for a building permit. If
modifications in a subdivision or development are approved after payment of the
initial use factor fee which change the total number of units in the
subdivision or development for which use factor fees are payable, the
subdivider or developer shall pay any increased use factor fees immediately as
a condition of the approval of the change, and any decrease in use factor fees
payable shall be credited against the final amount due on the installment
balance.
   (F)   Fire line detector check.
      (1)   Any building served with a fire line shall have a meter for
detection of water used for purposes other than fire use. The meter shall be
purchased from the township and the cost for the meter shall be as set by
Township Board resolution. If toxic materials are used in the fire lines for
the prevention of freezing or any other condition, an approved backflow
preventor must be installed. The detector check meter must be installed by the
Township Water Department. The necessary piping and apertures must be installed
before meter installation.
      (2)   The following meter sizes are required for the stated fire line
size:
 
Fire Line Size Detector Check Meter Size
4 in.          3/4 inch x 5/8 inch
6 in.          3/4 inch x 5/8 inch
8 in.          1 inch
10 in.         1-1/2 inch
 
   (G)   Capital charges and special rates. In addition to the foregoing
charges, a capital charge as set by Township Board by resolution shall be
assessed based on the water service size.
   (H)   Construction water charges.
      (1)   For use of water on a temporary basis during construction, a fee
schedule based on service size shall be set by Township Board resolution.
      (2)   The construction water permit would be valid for a period of six
months.
   (I)   Other charges. Charges for hydrant use, hydrant meter deposit, hydrant
permit, hydrant wrench deposit, inspection of disconnects (done by others),
inspection of water tap regular and overtime hours, inspection of sewer tap
regular and overtime hours, turn on/turn off charge regular and overtime hours,
water disconnect at main, and sewer lead disconnect shall be set by Township
Board resolution.
(Prior Code, § X-3.04)
§ 53.016  SEWER SYSTEM RATES.
   (A)   Sewer disposal use rates.
      (1)   The rates shall be levied on each lot or parcel of land, building,
premises now or hereafter having any connection with the sanitary sewers of the
system. The rates shall be billed along with the water bill and shall be based
on the quantity of water used therein (if there is such a meter).
      (2)   The sewage disposal rate shall be set by Township Board resolution
stated in gallons of metered water. The sewage disposal rate, during the
billing months of October, November and December shall be reduced by 25% for
residential users only.
   (B)   Minimum sewage rates. The minimum monthly and quarterly sewage use
rates shall be set by Township Board resolution.
   (C)   Single residences unmetered water. For single residences having an
unmetered water supply, the rate shall be set by Township Board resolution and
for each trailer in a trailer court having an unmetered water supply, the rate
shall be set by Township Board resolution.
   (D)   Special rates. Where sewage disposal service is furnished to users
other than single residences and trailers which are not connected to the water
system, or if connected to the water system no meter is used to measure the
quantity of water used, or in cases where the users make use of large (more
than the average amount for residences/trailers similarly situated) quantities
of water which may be discharged into storm sewers or for other miscellaneous
users of water for which special consideration should be given, special sewage
disposal rates may be fixed by the Township Board by resolution. The special
rates will depend on the sewer use regulations including all changes of the
Waste Control Division as prepared by the Board of County Road Commissioners
and the County Board of Public Works and will be a minimum of those charged by
the county plus 50% overhead.
   (E)   Sewer benefit charges.
      (1)   Sewer benefit charges shall consist of two parts: a trunk and
transmission fee; and use factor fee.
         (a)   The sewer trunk and transmission fee for connections into the
sewer system shall be based on water service size and shall be set by Township
Board resolution.
         (b)   In the event the applicant has no water service, assume the
following for payment
purposes:
 
Commercial and industrial 1 inch service
Residential               3/4 inch service
 
         (c)   A use factor fee for sewer installations shall be set by
Township Board resolution. The number of units charged shall be as determined
by the use factor schedule in §
53.017.
      (2)   (a)   The use factor fee and the trunk and transmission fee for
existing single-family residences may be paid in time payments. The payments
must be paid on a quarterly basis within a five-year period. A 12% average
annual interest rate shall be applied to the outstanding debt.
      Illustration:
      $1,000 debt + ($1,000 x 12% x 5 years x 0.5) = $1,000 + $300 = $1,300
         (b)   The payments will be referred to as SEWER DEBT SERVICE. No
discount on principal will be allowed for early payment of debt.
      (3)   Sewer benefit charges for all new construction shall be paid in
full when making application to connect and shall be paid prior to the issuance
of a building permit by the township, except as provided in division (E)(4)
below.
      (4)   A subdivider or developer may pay the use factor fee based upon the
use factor fee of each unit of the subdivision or development prior to the
start of the development, or may pay the use factor fee in time payments. If
the subdivider or developer chooses to pay the use factor fee in time payments,
one-third of the use factor fee (the “initial use factor fee”) shall be paid
prior to the start of the development. The remainder shall be the installment
balance and shall be paid to the township by the developer or subdivider on a
per unit basis at the time of application for a building permit. If
modifications in a subdivision or development are approved after payment of the
initial use factor fee which change the total number of units in the
subdivision or development for which use factor fees are payable, the
subdivider or developer shall pay any increased use factor fees immediately as
a condition of the approval of the change, and any decrease in use factor fees
payable shall be credited against the final amount due on the installment
balance.
(Prior Code, § X-3.050)
§ 53.017  USE FACTOR SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Use factor units for the fees enumerated in §§
53.015 and
53.018 will be calculated as follows:
Apartments                              0.60 units per apartment dwelling unit
Auto car wash                           10.00 units per production line
Auto car wash (self serve)              2.50 unit per stall
Auto dealers (new cars)                 0.30 unit per 1,000 square feet
Barber shops                            1.00 unit plus 0.10 unit per chair
Bars                                    1.70 unit per 1,000 square feet
Beauty shops                            1.00 unit plus 0.15 unit per booth/
                                        chair
Bowling alleys (excluding bar or        1.00 unit plus 0.10 unit per lane
restaurant)
Churches                                0.10 unit per 1,000 square feet
Cleaners                                1.00 unit per 1,000 square feet
Clinics                                 1.00 unit plus 0.50 unit per examining
                                        room
Convalescent homes                      1.00 unit plus 0.50 unit per bed
Factories/manufacturing                 0.50 unit per 1,000 square feet
Fitness center/health club with showers 2.00 unit per 1,000 square feet
and pool
Fitness center/health club without      0.30 unit per 1,000 square feet
showers and pool
Fraternal organizations                 2.00 unit per dwelling
Funeral homes                           2.50 unit per dwelling
Grocery store and supermarkets          0.30 unit per 1,000 square feet
Hospitals                               1.00 unit plus 0.75 per unit per bed
Hotels and motels (not including        0.70 unit per room
restaurants, bar or pools)
Laundry (self serve)                    5.00 unit per 1,000 square feet
Multiple-family residence               1.00 unit per dwelling unit
Office buildings                        0.15 unit per 1,000 square feet
Public schools (without pool)           0.20 unit per classroom
Research and engineering                0.20 unit per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants                             1.70 unit per 1,000 square feet
                                        including kitchen
School daycare                          0.60 unit per classroom
Service stations                        1.00 unit plus 0.15 unit per pump
Single-family residence                 1.00 unit per dwelling
Storage/warehouse facilities            0.10 unit per 1,000 square feet
Stores (other than specifically listed) 0.25 unit per 1,000 square feet
Swimming pools (residential excluded)   3.00 unit per 1,000 square feet of pool
                                        and service building/locker area
Theaters (inside)                       1.00 unit plus 0.01 unit per seat
Trailer parks                           0.60 unit per trailer space
Uses in industrial zoned areas
excepting areas for: A) research and
engineering uses; or B) approved        0.25 unit per 1,000 square feet
special uses or planned unit
developments.
 
   (B)   When primary uses contain other secondary uses the total factor shall
be the summation of the applicable separate factors, (for example, bowling
alley factor + bar factor + restaurant factor = total factor). Use factors for
uses that do not, in the township’s opinion, fit the descriptions listed above
will be determined by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § X-3.055)
§ 53.018  TRANSITION RULES FOR WATER AND SEWER BENEFIT CHARGES AMENDMENTS.
   Amended water and sewer benefit charges shall apply to all new construction
for which benefit charges have not yet been paid. If benefit charges for a
single-family residence, subdivision or development have been paid in part and
an installment balance remains, the fees for the installment balance shall be
calculated in the same manner as the initial payment; provided, however, that
modifications in a subdivision or development, and additions to a building or
structure after the effective date of the amendatory ordinance shall be
assessed benefit charges as provided for in the amendatory ordinance.
(Prior Code, § X-3.056)
§ 53.019  INDUSTRIAL WASTE CONTROL (IWC) CHARGE; RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEFINED.
   (A)   A monthly industrial waste control (IWC) charge as set by resolution
by the Township Board shall apply to all nonresidential customers, except those
customers exempted from the IWC charge by the City of Detroit Water and Sewer
Department (DWSD), for the purposes of affecting the cost of the industrial
waste control surveillance program.
   (B)   A RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be defined as any structure designed and used
for year-round habitation where average occupancy by the same person or persons
was longer than two consecutive months during the previous year. Nonresidential
units shall include any sewered premises which do not meet the above
description.
   (C)   The monthly charge shall not be applied on the basis of any meter
which services solely residential users or which is used solely for fire
protection purposes.
(Prior Code, § X-3.060)
§ 53.020  SEWER CONNECTION RATES.
   (A)   For any connection by an existing single-family residence, the charge
will be set by Township Board resolution.
   (B)   Charges for establishments other than existing single-family
residences shall be based on street right-of-way width and shall be set by
Township Board resolution.
      (1)   Street right-of-way is determined by the property address. In the
event the property is a corner lot with service available on either side, the
charge will be the lesser of the two charges, if there is a difference.
      (2)   For properties located on boundary roads of the township, the
charge shall be based on the applicable rate for a zero to 60 foot-road, if the
sanitary sewer is on the same side of the street.
      (3)   If there is no riser available thereby necessitating installation
under a roadway, the only charge shall be the inspection fee.
(Prior Code, § X-3.061)
§ 53.021  RATE APPEALS.
   The Township Board may establish special charges or fees to meet special
circumstances when, in its judgment, the application of the rates herein
provided would be inequitable.
(Prior Code, § X-3.062)
SERVICE GENERALLY
§ 53.035  WATER AND SEWER APPLICATIONS.
   All water and sewer applications, agreements and/or permits shall be
arranged for and signed and all tap connection and benefit charges shall be
paid prior to the issuance of electrical, plumbing and/or building permits.
(Prior Code, § X-3.063)
§ 53.036  BILLINGS.
   (A)   Bills for debt service rates (where payable in installments) and
sewage disposal use rates shall be made as separate items on the water bills
for those premises served by the sewers of the system which have connections to
the watermains or the system and separate bills for the rates and charges for
those applicable shall be prepared for premises having no connections to
watermains.
   (B)   Bills may be rendered monthly and/or quarterly, in the discretion of
the township, during each operating or fiscal year and shall represent charges
for the period immediately preceding the date of rendering the bill. The bills
shall be mailed to the address of the premises unless the township, is
otherwise notified by the property owner of the premises and shall be mailed
sufficiently in advance of the next billing date so as to be received by the
addressee no later than the first day of the new billing period and the bills
shall be due and payable on the due date as billed from the date thereof except
when the due date is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which case the
succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday shall be the
final day of payment without penalty and for all bills not paid when due and
payable, a penalty of 5% of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto.
Waivers may be granted for good cause by the Department of Public Works Manager
as authorized by the Township Supervisor. All benefit charges payable pursuant
to prior ordinances, which charges are still owing as of the effective date of
this subchapter, shall continue and be payable in the same manner as provided
in the prior ordinances and the same to such extent are hereby saved from
repeal by the adoption of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § X-3.064)
§ 53.037  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 178 of 1939, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
123.161 et seq., the charges for water service and sewage disposal service
prescribed by this subchapter furnished to any premises shall be a lien thereon
effective immediately upon the distribution of water or furnishing sewage
disposal service to the premises. Any charges, delinquent for six months or
more, shall have an administrative fee as set by Township Board resolution
added thereto and that total amount shall be certified annually prior to
November 1 of each year by the official or officials in charge of collection
thereof to the Township Supervisor, who shall enter same upon the next tax roll
against the premises to which services shall have been rendered and the charges
shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as
provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon such premises and the
enforcement of the lien therefore provided that, in all cases when a tenant is
responsible for the payment of any such charge and the Township Board is so
notified in writing, such notice to include a true copy of the legally executed
lease of affected premises, then no charge shall become a lien against the same
premises from and after the date of tendering an affidavit pursuant to the
requirements of M.C.L.A. § 123.165, to the Township Supervisor or his or her
authorized or her agent. In the event of filing of the notice, no further
service shall be rendered to the premises until a cash deposit in an amount to
be set by Township Board resolution shall have been deposited with the township
as security for the payment of the charges.
   (B)   In addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the collection of
charges for water service and/or sewage disposal service to any premises may be
enforced by the township by discontinuing the water service and/or the sewage
disposal service to the premises from and after the date the charges are past
due and payable. Restoration and continuation of service shall not be made
until payment in full of all past due charges, penalties and interest for the
service are paid. There shall also be a charge for termination and restoration
(turn on/turn off) all of which charges, penalties, interest and fees shall be
set by Township Board resolution.
(Prior Code, § X-3.065)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 26, passed 3-9-2021)
§ 53.038  PROHIBITION OF FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality. But
service so furnished by the system shall be paid for in accordance with the
foregoing schedule of rates or any revision thereof in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The township shall pay from its general funds or
from the proceeds of taxes which it is authorized to levy within the
constitutional limits the water rates and sewage disposal rates here set forth
for any connections serving the township or any of its departments or agencies.
(Prior Code, § X-3.066)
§ 53.039  INTERIOR METERS; BASEMENTS OR CELLARS.
   No building or structure shall be constructed, extended, repaired or altered
in a manner as to construct, extend, repair or alter a basement or cellar
unless sufficient design and installation of plumbing systems are provided
showing water meter installation and location in that portion of the basement
or cellar close to the system main water lines and in an easily accessible,
clean, dry space which will accommodate the water meter in a horizontal
position by a combination of elbows, valve gates and templets between the inlet
and the outlet pipes and which will provide a minimum of six-inch-clearance
between all portions of water meter, templets and valve gates and the closest
abutting immovable object. No building permit shall be issued by the Building
Department unless the building plans are in compliance with the foregoing
requirements. No certificates of occupancy shall be issued by the Department of
Building Inspection unless the completed building or structure is in compliance
with the foregoing requirements and the water meter has been installed and is
in operating condition. A bypass assembly may be required for any meter
installation one and one-half-inch or larger.
(Prior Code, § X-3.067)
§ 53.040  INTERIOR METERS.
   No basement or cellar. No building or structure shall be constructed,
extended, repaired or altered without a basement or cellar being a part
thereof, unless sufficient design and installation of plumbing systems are
provided for water meter installation and location in an easily accessible,
clean, dry space impervious to freezing which will accommodate the water meter
in a horizontal position by a combination of elbows, valve gates and templets
between the inlet and the outlet pipes and which will provide a minimum of six-
inch-clearance between all portions of the water meter, templets and valve
gates and the closest abutting immovable object, with the express exception
that no water meter shall be located in a crawl space. No building permit shall
be issued by the Building Department unless the building plans are in
compliance with the foregoing requirements. No certificate of occupancy shall
be issued by the Building Department unless the completed building or structure
is in compliance with the foregoing requirements and the water meter has been
installed and is in operating condition.
(Prior Code, § X-3.068)
§ 53.041  EXTERIOR METER READERS.
   Whenever the Township Water and Sewer Department has been unable to obtain
three consecutive quarterly readings of the water meter located on any
premises, an outside meter reader shall be installed at actual cost to the
property owner or tenant, as the case may be, and such charge shall be
collected and subject to collection enforcement in the same manner as
hereinbefore provided for water service and sewage disposal charges, provided
that consecutive readings shall mean actual readings of the water meter by the
Township Water and Sewer Department, its employees and agents or by the
customer as evidenced by authorized return mail customer water meter reading
cards received by the Township Water and Sewer Department in time for billing.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069)
§ 53.042  DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES AND LIABILITY.
   The township, its agents and employees exclude all implied warranties and
warranties of merchantability, warranties of third persons as to the design,
operation, function, maintenance or installation of the total or component
parts of the water service and maintenance or installation of the total or
component parts of the water service and sewage disposal system and shall not
be liable for damages arising from or occurring as a result of the design,
operation, function, maintenance or installation of the total or component
parts of the water service and sewage disposal systems.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-1)
§ 53.043  FUNDS.
   The gross revenues of the system are hereby ordered to be set aside as
collected into a separate depository account of the Water and Sewer Fund,
designated as the operation and maintenance account. These revenues shall be
used exclusively for the operation and maintenance and improvement of the water
supply and sewer disposal systems. A separate accounting shall be maintained of
any of the gross revenue received by the system which are reserved for specific
restricted purposes. In addition, the Township Board may from time to time
designate that certain monies be earmarked for an account established to
restrict assets of the Water and Sewer Fund for specifically identified uses or
to comply with the terms of contractual agreements.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-2)
§ 53.044  CONNECTION.
   (A)   No connections shall be made to any of the water or sewer mains or
lines of the system without a permit for the same having been issued by the
Township Water and Sewer Department.
   (B)   No connection shall be made to any of the sanitary sewer mains or
lines of the system which shall cause, by reason thereof, the storm water or
surface drainage waters to be introduced into the sanitary sewers.
   (C)   Upon the Township Board determining that the character or quantity of
any sewage emanating or outflowing from any building or premises shall impose
an unreasonable burden upon the sanitary sewers of the system, the person, firm
or corporation responsible therefore or owning or using the building or
premises shall forthwith cease and desist from causing or permitting the sewage
to be emptied into the system.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or permit the happening or
threatened occurrence of any act or the forbearance of any act which shall
constitute a present or imminent danger to the transmission of the potable
water or effluent by the system, including, without limitation the property,
appliances, instruments, structures and appurtenances thereof, and the
violation of these provisions shall constitute a public nuisance and be
enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   No person shall damage, deface or destroy any meter serving the system
or any property of the system.
   (F)   No person shall cause or permit to be introduced into the water supply
of the system any contaminant or foreign substance of water.
   (G)   No person shall introduce new inflow sources to the separate sanitary
sewer system.
   (H)   No person shall construct combined sewers in the township.
   (I)   No person shall allow any new building sanitary wastewater connection
to contain footing drain and/or roof leader wastewater contributions.
   (J)   Agents and employees to the system shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any premises or structures served or reasonably believed to
be served by connection to the watermains or lines of the system for the
purpose of inspecting the mains, lines, connection or pipes and, on request,
the owner, lessee or occupant of any property or structure shall furnish any
pertinent information regarding such mains, lines, connections or pipes.
Refusal of the information or the access, when requested, shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter and a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-3)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.045  SUMP PUMP COLLECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Minimum construction requirements. All sump pump collection systems in
the township shall be constructed according to the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   The sump pump collection systems shall be constructed with eight-
inch minimum diameter pipe ABS composite (Truss) or PVC pipe;
      (2)   All sump pump collection systems shall be connected to the storm
sewer systems only;
      (3)   All sump pump collection systems shall be placed in drain easements
and/or public utility easements;
      (4)   All sump pump collection systems shall be connected with two-inch
minimum diameter PVC pipe connected to the sump pump discharge;
      (5)   All sump pump collection systems shall be constructed with a
minimum of three feet of cover over the pipe with a minimum slope of 0.30%;
      (6)   All clean-outs must be placed at a maximum of 300-foot intervals
and also at the up-stream ends of the system; and
      (7)   All sump pump collection systems shall be constructed with a
minimum of two-foot diameter access structures at all pipe intersections.
   (B)   Review and approval procedures. The determination of the acceptability
of the proposed sump pump collection system will be made in accordance with the
standards set forth in this subchapter. The procedures are as follows.
      (1)   At the time of the review and an approval of the preliminary plat,
or final site plan, the applicant shall indicate in general the method or
methods of handling the sump pump water discharge.
      (2)   The foregoing information will be reviewed by the Township Engineer
in accordance with sound engineering principles. The Township Engineer shall
make its written recommendation to the township prior to the review by the
Planning Commission of the preliminary plat or site plan submitted for final
approval.
      (3)   At the time of the final approval of the preliminary plat by the
Township Board with the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Commission, or
the final site plan approval by the Planning Commission, the acceptability of
the proposed sump pump collection system shall be determined.
      (4)   Residential projects other than plats or site plans approved by the
Planning Commission shall be reviewed by the Building Department and the
Department of Public Works for compliance and determination of the
acceptability of the proposed sump pump collection system.
   (C)   Prohibited discharges. The discharge of water from sump pumps which
results in any of the following conditions shall be considered to be to the
detriment of the general public health, safety and welfare and shall be
prohibited:
      (1)   Discharges onto public or private streets, parking lots, walks,
bike paths or pedestrian/vehicular travel ways which would occur on a regular
basis and/or cause the formation of ice or slippery conditions during the
winter months;
      (2)   Discharges onto lawn areas, including drainage swales, which result
in the area being incapable of proper maintenance or which would cause the
pooling of water and the promotion of the breeding of mosquitoes or other
insects; and
      (3)   Any discharge not outletting to a suitable storm sewer or waterway
which as a result of ground water or other conditions causes the sump pump to
cycle on a continuous basis without influence from precipitation.
   (D)   Existing sump pump systems. Discharges from existing sump pump
collection systems which create or cause to create situations outlined in
division (C) above shall be defined as prohibited discharges and subject to
correction. The following are possible remedies which shall be required to
correct existing prohibited discharges:
      (1)   The connection of the sump pump discharge line to an appropriate
storm sewer or drainage ditch adjoining the property by means of an underground
two-inch minimum diameter pipe in conformance with Township Building and
Plumbing Codes;
      (2)   The connection of the sump pump discharge line to a dry well
constructed on the property by means of an underground two-inch minimum
diameter pipe in conformance with Township Plumbing and Building Codes. Dry
wells will be permitted only in soil conditions where the discharge water will
percolate into the ground without adversely impacting adjoining properties. In
general, dry wells will be constructed of perforated pipe 24 inches in diameter
set vertically in the ground and surrounded by a minimum of six inches of stone
on the sides and bottoms. The minimum depth of the dry well shall be 48 inches
and a suitable lid shall be placed on top which may be covered with earth;
      (3)   In areas where soils are not suitable for dry wells or where an
existing storm sewer or drainage ditch does not adjoin the property, the owner
may be required to obtain permission from adjoining land owners to gain access
to a suitable outlet. Remedies in this situation will be reviewed and
prescribed by the Township Engineer and Chief Building Official; and
      (4)   Property owners utilizing remedies encompassing more than one
property owner may attempt to establish a special assessment district for all
benefitted property owners in a manner and in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-4)
§ 53.046  WATER CONSERVATION DEVICES; NON-CONTACT WASTEWATER.
   (A)   All structures served by the township sanitary sewer system which are
hereafter constructed or altered shall be equipped with water conservation
devices which meet the following standards:
      (1)   Water closets. Two and one-half gallons per flush or less;
      (2)   Urinals. One gallon per flush or less;
      (3)   Showers. Two gallons per minute or less; and
      (4)   Indoor faucets. Two gallons per minute or less.
   (B)   All non-contact wastewater generated by a structure shall be directed
to a storm drain. Non-contact wastewater is rainwater, surface water,
condensate, cooling water or similar liquid waste.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-5)
§ 53.047  ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
township from entering into additional contracts with the county under the
provisions of Public Act 342 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 46.171 through 46.185,
as amended, or Public Act 185 of 1957, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731 through
123.786, as amended, for the acquisition, construction and financing of
additional sewers or sewage disposal facilities or for water distribution
improvement or facilities and use of revenues derived from additional projects
for the payments of any obligations incurred thereby.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-6)
§ 53.048  BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The books and accounts of the system shall be kept in the manner provided by
statute. The books and accounts shall be audited not less than annually by a
certified public accountant, designated by the Township Board, and a certified
copy of the audit shall be filed with the Township Clerk and made available for
public inspection during regular business hours of the office of the Township
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § X-3.069-7)
§ 53.049  INDUSTRIAL SURVEILLANCE PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Annual industrial surveillance permit fees for Class D.
   (B)   Permits shall be as set by Township Board resolution.
(Prior Code, § X-3.070)
WASTEWATER
§ 53.060  INDUSTRIAL WASTE SURCHARGE AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE PRETREATMENT;
DISCHARGE TO DETROIT WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   The Industrial Pretreatment Program (IPP) Rules promulgated by the Great
Lakes Water Authority (GLWA) are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. passed 9-22-2020)
§ 53.061  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is the protection of the environment,
and of public health and safety by abating and preventing pollution through the
regulation and control of the quantity and quality of wastes admitted to or
discharged into the wastewater collection and treatment system under the
jurisdiction of the township and enabling the township to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and the general pretreatment
regulations, being 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge, or will pose a hazard to the health or welfare of the users
of the system and the community at large;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will pass inadequately treated through the system into receiving
waters, the atmosphere or the environment, or otherwise be incompatible with
the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle or reclaim wastewater or
sludge from the system in an economical and advantageous manner; and
      (4)   To provide for the recovery of the costs from users of the
wastewater collection and treatment system sufficient to administer regulatory
activities and meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement or
replacement of the system.
   (C)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of contributors to the
Detroit and the township wastewater collection and treatment system through the
issuance of wastewater discharge permits to certain users and through the
enforcement of general requirements for all users, authorizes monitoring and
enforcement, and authorizes fees and penalties.
(Prior Code, § X-3.26)
§ 53.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or other legal entity who shall violate
or fail to comply with any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 9-22-2020)
CHAPTER 54:  YPSILANTI COMMUNITY UTILITIES AUTHORITY
Section
Generally
   
54.001   Applicability
   
54.002   Definitions
   
54.003   Abbreviations
   
54.004   Protection from damage
Administration
   
54.015   Permit or authorization required
   
54.016   Information required prior to connection to system
   
54.017   Reporting required after promulgation or revision of a pretreatment
standards and reporting from a new source
   
54.018   Additional reporting required and periodic requirements
   
54.019   Powers of the YCUA
   
54.020   Sampling and monitoring facilities may be required
   
54.021   Right to access of facilities for inspection, sampling, records
examination, record copying or other duties
   
54.022   Compliance with subchapter provisions required
   
54.023   Confidentiality of information
   
54.024   Enforcement by township
   
54.025   Records, accounts, audits, classification of users, insurance
   
54.026   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
54.027   Enforcement process
   
54.028   Surcharge; fees
   
54.029   Permit; requirements for nondomestic users
   
54.030   Application
   
54.031   Contents
   
54.032   Issuance process
   
54.033   Funding/fees
Building Sewers and Connections
   
54.045   Permit required
   
54.046   Classes of permits; application; fees
   
54.047   Costs of connection to be borne by owner; indemnification of township
and YCUA
   
54.048   Separate building sewer for each building required; exception
   
54.049   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
54.050   Construction specifications
   
54.051   Elevation
   
54.052   Prohibited connections
   
54.053   Connection specifications
   
54.054   Inspection; supervision of connection
   
54.055   Guards for excavations; restoration of public property
Use of Public Sewers
   
54.070   Required
   
54.071   Unpolluted discharges
   
54.072   Fats, oils and grease (FOG) interceptor and sand interceptors
   
54.073   Prohibited discharges
   
54.074   Promulgation of more stringent standards
   
54.075   Prohibited concentrations of certain pollutants and mercury reduction
plan
   
54.076   Sampling, measurements, test and analyses
   
54.077   Surcharge for discharges of unusual strength
   
54.078   Special agreements authorized
   
54.079   Dilution of discharge
   
54.080   Accidental discharges
   
54.081   Determination of sewage flow
   
54.082   Disposal at sewage treatment plant
   
54.083   Bypass
   
54.084   Report of violation
   
54.085   Notification of authorities upon discharge of hazardous waste
Private Sewage Disposal
   
54.100   Authorized under certain conditions
   
54.101   Permit required; application; fees
   
54.102   Inspection by township and YCUA
   
54.103   Specifications
   
54.104   Connection with public sewer
   
54.105   Sanitary maintenance required
   
54.106   Other requirements
 
   
54.999   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 54.001  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all users that discharge into the Ypsilanti
Community Utilities Authority’s (YCUA) publicly owned treatment works (the
POTW). In addition, it shall be unlawful for any users located outside the
Ypsilanti Township limits to continue discharges to the POTW except as provided
in this chapter. In addition, this chapter shall establish permit requirements
for connections or alterations to township or YCUA sewage works facilities or
the POTW; govern the design, construction, alteration or use of and connection
to the sewage works and POTW; regulate the discharge of wastewater into the
sewage works and POTW; prohibit certain detrimental conduct; authorize the
issuance of permits; authorize inspections; provide for administration and
enforcement of this subchapter; establish civil and criminal penalties for
violations; and authorize the enforcement of and ensure compliance within the
township of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., the Clean Water Act and the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq., more specifically defined
herein, and regulations promulgated and adopted under the acts and statutes.
(Prior Code, § X-3.39)
§ 54.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT, THE ACT, THE FEDERAL WATER POLLUTION CONTROL ACT and the CLEAN WATER
ACT. Used interchangeably in this subchapter and refer to Pub. Law No. 92-500,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as adopted in 1972 and amended by Pub. Law No.
95-217 of 1977, and any succeeding amendments and any administrative rules
promulgated thereunder, as amended or revised from time to time.
   ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMIT. Limits set by the YCUA in lieu of the
promulgated national categorical pretreatment standard for integrated
facilities in accordance with the combined wastestream formula as set by the
E.P.A.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A responsible corporate officer, if the industrial user is a
corporation, who shall be a president, secretary, treasurer or vice president
of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other
person who performs similar policy or decision making functions for the
corporation or means the principal manager of one or more manufacturing,
production or operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having a
gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter
1980 dollars) if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to
the manager in accordance with corporate procedures;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively;
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
and if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in divisions (1) or (2) above of this definition.
         (b)   This authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well, or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the Director. If an
authorization is no longer accurate because a different individual or position
has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, or overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the industrial user, a new
authorization satisfying the requirements of this definition shall be submitted
to the Director or YCUA prior to or together with any reports to be signed by
an authorized representative.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Programs, practices, procedures or other
directed efforts, initiated and implemented by users, which can or does lead to
the reduction, conservation or minimization of pollutants being introduced into
the ecosystem, including, but not limited to, the Ypsilanti Community Utilities
Authority (YCUA) publicly owned treatment system. BMPs include, but are not
limited to, equipment or technology modifications, process or procedure
modifications, reformulation or design of products, substitution of raw
materials, and improvements in housekeeping, maintenance, training or inventory
control, and may include technical and economic considerations. BMPs may be
structural or non-structural or both. In determining what BMPs will be required
of an user in a particular case, the Director may consider all relevant
technological, economical, practical and institutional considerations as
determined relevant and appropriate by the Director, consistent with achieving
and maintaining compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other
applicable laws and regulations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES PLAN (BMPP). A written document that describes how
the BMPs will be accomplished.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter).
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the Ypsilanti Community Utilities
Authority.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the drainage from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. That extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other places of disposal.
   BYPASS. Intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as
the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It
does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does
not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as OC and
DOC, oxygen consumed and dichromate oxygen consumed, respectively.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine added to
water or wastewater and the amount of residual chlorine remaining at the end of
a specified contact period. The demand for any given water varies with the
amount of chlorine applied, time of contact and temperature.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM. The wastestream at industrial facilities where
regulated process effluent is mixed with other wastewaters (either regulated or
unregulated) prior to treatment.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in the wastewater
treatment plant such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal conform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat such
pollutants, and in fact does remove the pollutant to a substantial degree.
Examples of additional pollutants may include: chemical oxygen demand; total
organic carbon and phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; nitrogen compounds; and
fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample formed either by continuous sampling or by mixing
discrete samples obtained at intervals over a period of time. The individual
samples shall be obtained through flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the YCUA. Where time-proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the YCUA, the samples must be representative of the
discharge. Manual generation of a composite sample through the collection and
combining of grab samples may be approved if the user demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Director that this will provide a representative sample of
the effluent being discharged. The decision to allow the alternative sampling
must be documents in the users file for that facility or facilities. Composite
sampling protocols delineated in the user’s permit take precedence.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The concentration or mass loading that shall not be exceeded
on any single calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITATIONS are expressed in
terms of a concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetical average
measurement of the pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken
that day. Where daily maximum limitations are expressed in units of mass, the
daily discharge is the total mass discharged during the day. If a composite
sample is required for a parameter, the determination whether the daily maximum
limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a single calendar day shall
be based on the composite sample collected for that parameter on that calendar
day. If grab samples are required for a parameter, the determination whether
the daily maximum limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a calendar
day shall be based on the average of all grab samples collected for that
parameter on that calendar day. If only one grab sample is collected for a
parameter on a given day, the determination whether the daily maximum
limitation for that parameter has been exceeded for the day shall be based on
the results of that single grab sample. If the pollutant concentration in any
sample is less than the applicable detection limit, that value shall be
regarded as zero when calculating the daily maximum concentration.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGES. The charges levied to customers of the wastewater
system which are used to pay principal, interest and administrative costs of
retiring the debt incurred for construction of the sewage works.
   DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT or DNRE. The State of
Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Environment, Administrator or
other duly authorized official.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the YCUA or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste and wastewater from humans or household operations,
which is discharged to, or otherwise enters, a POTW.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or E.P.A. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, Administrator or other duly authorized official.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASE (FOG). Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
waxes, oils or any other non-volatile or semi-volatile material of animal,
vegetable or mineral origin that is extractable by solvents in accordance with
standard methods.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL SAMPLE. A composite sample taken with regard to the flow
rate of the wastestream.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT (FSE). A non-domestic user that engages in one or
more of the following food preparation activities: cooking by frying (all
methods); baking (all methods); grilling; sauteing, rotisserie cooking;
broiling (all methods); boiling; blanching; roasting; toasting; poaching;
infrared heating; searing; barbecuing; and any other food preparation activity
that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or on a receptacle that
requires washing.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A pipe or conduit which is placed around the perimeter of a
building foundation and which intentionally admits ground water.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis over a
period of time of not more than 15 minutes without regard to the flow in the
wastestream.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, manufacturing,
trade or business processes, or wastewater discharge from any structure with
these characteristics, as distinct from their employee’ s domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who contributes, causes or permits wastewater to
be discharged into the POTW, including, but not limited to, a place of
business, endeavor, arts, trade or commerce, whether public or private,
commercial or charitable, but excludes single-family and multi-family
residential dwellings with discharges consistent with domestic waste
characteristics.
   INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT or INDUSTRIAL USER PRETREATMENT PERMIT. A discharge
permit issued by the Director under this chapter and the YCUA industrial
pretreatment program.
   INFILTRATION. The portion of groundwater which is unintentionally admitted
to a sewer.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, to which both of the following provisions apply:
      (1)   The discharge inhibits or disrupts the publicly owned treatment
works, its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or
disposal;
      (2)   Pursuant to division (1) above of this definition, the discharge is
a cause of a violation of any requirement of the YCUA or the Act or the State
Act, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation, or of
the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder, or
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Clean Water Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., and including state regulations contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic
Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; the Marine Protection,
Research and Sanctuaries Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM CONCENTRATION. The maximum concentration of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in time (independent of the
flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the concentration determined
by analysis of any grab sample, composite sample or discrete portion of a
composite sample exceeds the instantaneous maximum concentration, the
instantaneous maximum concentration shall be deemed to have been exceeded. Any
discharge of a pollutant at or above a specified instantaneous maximum
concentration is a violation of this chapter and the YCUA industrial
pretreatment program.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MERCURY REDUCTION PLAN. A plan to ensure that the maximum allowable mercury
loading to the POTW is not exceeded as described in §
54.075.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by the E.P.A. in accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which apply to a specific category of users
which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, subchapter N (1990), parts 405 through
471.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge and for which construction commenced after the
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the Clean
Water Act will be applicable to the source if the standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), and if any of the following provisions
apply:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production of wastewater-generated processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation is substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site.
      (2)   The extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general
type of activity as the existing source and the extent of integration of the
new facility with the existing plant should be considered in determining
whether the process is substantially independent.
   NONDOMESTIC USER. An industry, commercial establishment or other entity that
discharges wastewater to a publicly owned treatment works other than, or in
addition to, sanitary sewage.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work, materials, equipment, utilities,
administration and other effort required to operate and maintain the sewage
works consistent with ensuring adequate treatment of wastewater to produce an
effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable state and
federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
   OPERATOR. The person responsible for the overall operation of a facility.
   OWNER. The person who owns a facility or part of a facility.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge that exits the WWTP into state waters in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the Act, the State Act or the NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, limited liability company, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal entity, or its legal
representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the
feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the
context.
   pH. The logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution or expressed in standard
units (SU).
   POLLUTANT. Any of the following: substances regulated by categorical
standards; substances discharged to the POTW that are required to be monitored,
are limited in the POTWs permit, or are or are to be identified in the POTWs
permit application; substances for which control measures on nondomestic users
are necessary to avoid restricting the approved residuals management program of
the POTW; substances for which control measures on nondomestic users are
necessary to avoid operational problems at the POTW; substances for which
control measures on nondomestic sources are necessary to avoid worker health
and safety problems in the POTW.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological or radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutants, or
the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less
harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing
pollutants into the sewage works. The reduction or alteration can be obtained
by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or other means,
except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on a nondomestic
user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act and the
State Act. This term includes prohibited discharges and local limits defined in
R 323.2303 and categorical standards.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). The treatment works owned and/or
operated by the YCUA and includes any devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature. The term also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances
if they convey wastewater to or through the publicly owned treatment works. The
term also means the municipality (the Township of Ypsilanti) that has
jurisdiction over indirect discharges to, and discharges from, the treatment
works.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment in the
wastewater transportation or treatment systems to ensure continuous treatment
of wastewater in accordance with the NPDES permit and other state and federal
regulations.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or substantial
or permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic
wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that
may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or
permitted to enter the sewage works.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices
and structures used for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All municipal facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of any applicable user charges, surcharges and
debt service charges.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Either of the following:
      (1)   A nondomestic user subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. § 403 (March 26, 2007) and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, subchapter N
(1990); or
      (2)   (a)   A nondomestic user that, in the opinion of YCUA or of the
township, has a reasonable potential to adversely affect the POTW’s operation,
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement or that contributes a
process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather
hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant, or that discharge an
average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW,
excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling, and boiler blowdown wastewater. Any
user designated as significant may petition the township to be deleted from the
list of significant industrial users on the grounds that it has no potential
for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or violating any pretreatment
standard or requirement.
         (b)   The Director may determine that a user that meets the criteria
of divisions (1) and (2) of this definition is not currently a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER, if the Director finds that the user has no reasonable
potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that a industrial user permit is not
required to meet the purposes and objectives of this subchapter. A
determination that a user is not a significant industrial user (or that a
permit is therefore not required) shall not be binding and may be reversed by
the Director at any time based on changed circumstances, new information, or as
otherwise determined necessary by the Director to meet the purposes and
objectives of this subchapter.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as
results of analyses in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for
the same pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed, by any
magnitude, a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l);
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as results of
analyses in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
each pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the
product of the pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous
limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable technical
review criteria. (Technical review criteria equals 1.4 for compatible
pollutants and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except pH.);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement, as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) (daily maximum, or longer-term average
instantaneous limits, or narrative standard) that the YCUA determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through, including endangering the health of township or YCUA personnel or the
general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or the environment or has resulted in the YCUA’s
exercise of its emergency authority under Rule 323.2306(a)(vi) of the Part 23
Rules under the State Act or its emergency authority under this subchapter to
halt or prevent the discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after a scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a YCUA or other local control
mechanism or enforcement order for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, a required
report such as, but not limited to, a baseline monitoring report, 90-day or
other compliance report, periodic self-monitoring report, or report on
compliance with a compliance schedule;
      (7)   Failure to timely or accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, that YCUA determines will affect or has
adversely affected the operation or implementation of the YCUA pretreatment
program or operation of the POTW.
   SLUG, SLUG LOADING, SLUG DISCHARGE. Either:
      (1)   Any discharge of pollutants at a volume or concentration that
causes upset of or interference with the POTW or causes the pass through of
pollutants to receiving waters;
      (2)   Any discharge of a pollutant(s), measured by a grab sample, at a
concentration exceeding five times the composite or grab sample discharge
limit;
      (3)   Any discharge of wastewater outside the pH range of five to 11 S.U.
for either a continuous duration of greater than or equal to 15 minutes or for
a sum total of 30 minutes within one day; or
      (4)   Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   STATE ACT. Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (NREPA), as amended, and any
administrative rules promulgated thereunder, as amended or revised from time to
time.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SURCHARGE. An extra charge to cover the cost of treating, sampling and
testing extra strength sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Plymouth, Michigan or its Board of
Trustees.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which is or can
potentially be harmful to the public health or the environment including those
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of CWA § 307(a) or other
acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the sewage works.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance of sewerage works pursuant to § 204(b) of Pub. Law
No. 92-500 and includes the cost of replacement.
   USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to sanitary sewers including, but not
limited to, residential, industrial, commercial, institutional and
governmental.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the YCUA
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences and which is not a residential user or an industrial user.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local government user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges an “industrial waste” as
defined in this section or any nondomestic source who discharges pollutants to
the sewage works or POTW.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious or educational function which, based on a determination
by the YCUA discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
buildings are used primarily as a domicile for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached, semidetached and row houses, mobile homes,
apartments, or permanent multi-family dwellings (transient lodging is not
included, it is considered commercial).
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § X-3.40)
§ 54.003  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
ASTM   American Society for Testing and Materials
BMP    Best management practices
BMPP   Best management practices plan
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
CWA    Clean Water Act
DNRE   Department of Natural Resources and Environment (State of Michigan)
E.P.A. Environmental Protection Agency
FOG    Fats, oils and grease
l      Liter
MRP    Mercury reduction plan
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SS     Suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
WWTP   The Ypsilanti Community Utilities Authority wastewater treatment plant
WEF    Water Environment Federation
YCUA   Ypsilanti Community Utilities Authority
 
(Prior Code, § X-3.41)
§ 54.004  PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously, willfully,
or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works or
POTW.
(Prior Code, § X-3.42)  Penalty, see §
54.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 54.015  PERMIT OR AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the waters of the state within the
township, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the township and/or to the
sewage works, any wastewater except as provided by an NPDES permit and/or as
authorized by the township and the YCUA in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § X-3.43)  Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.016  INFORMATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO CONNECTION TO SYSTEM.
   (A)   All industrial users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
sewage works shall submit information on the use, processes and wastewater to
the Director before connecting to or contributing to the sewage works. The
information submitted must be sufficient for the YCUA to determine the impact
of the user’s discharge on the sewage works and the need for pretreatment.
   (B)   The user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation,
the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and location of the user;
      (2)   The SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended and the industrial category
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards, 40 C.F.R., Chapter 1,
Subchapter N, Part 403, if applicable;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those pollutants mentioned in §§
54.001 through
54.004 of this code of ordinances and §§
54.015 through
54.033,
54.045 through
54.055,
54.070 through
54.081, when required by the Director, as determined by a reliable analytical
laboratory. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007), as amended from
time to time. Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007) does not contain
sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the
E.P.A. determines that the part 136 (March 26, 2007) sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analysis shall be performed by using validated analytical methods of any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the publicly owned treatment works or other parties, approved by the E.P.A.;
      (4)   The time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   The average daily wastewater flow rates, including daily, monthly
and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation, if the user is a SIU or as required by the YCUA;
      (7)   A description of activities, faculties and plant processes on the
premises including all materials, which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by any YCUA, state or federal pretreatment standards, and a
statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on
a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
and/or additional pretreatment is required by the industrial user to meet
applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
additional pretreatment shall be provided. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards;
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (B) shall exceed nine
months; and
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Director including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on the date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the steps
being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule established.
In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to
the Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   The type and amount of raw materials processed, average and
maximum per day;
      (12)   The number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Director to be
necessary to evaluate the impact of the discharge on the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § X-3.44)
§ 54.017  REPORTING REQUIRED AFTER PROMULGATION OR REVISION OF A PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS AND REPORTING FROM A NEW SOURCE.
   (A)   Within 180 days or the promulgation or revision of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative decision made
upon a category determination submission under R 323.2311(2) of the Part 23
Rules promulgated under the State Act, whichever is later, existing nondomestic
users subject to the categorical pretreatment standards and currently
discharging, or scheduled to discharge, to the POTW shall submit, to the YCUA,
a report that contains all of the information listed in this section. Where
reports containing this information already have been submitted to the YCUA or
E.P.A. in compliance with the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 128.140(b) (1977),
the nondomestic user will not be required to submit the information again. Not
less than 90 days before the commencement of a discharge, sources that become
nondomestic users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard and new sources shall be required to submit, to the YCUA, a report
that contains the information listed in divisions (B)(1) to (B)(5) below. New
sources shall also be required to include in this report information on the
method of pretreatment the source intends to use to meet applicable
pretreatment standards. New sources shall give estimates of the information
requested in divisions (B)(4) and (B)(5) below.
   (B)   All of the following information shall be submitted pursuant to this
section:
      (1) The name and address of the facility including the name of the
operator and owners;
      (2)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production and
standard industrial classification of the operation or operations carried out
by the nondomestic user. The description shall include a facility drawing and
schematic process diagram that indicates points of discharge to the POTW and
from which processes the discharges originate;
      (4)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW for each of the following:
         (a)   Regulated process streams; and
         (b)   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula specified in R 323.2311(6). YCUA may allow for verifiable
estimates of these flows where justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
      (5)   All of the following information shall be provided with respect to
the measurement of pollutants:
         (a)   The identity of the pretreatment standards, including state or
local standards, applicable to each regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration or mass, where required by the standard or YCUA, of regulated
pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and
average concentration or mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample
shall be representative of daily operations;
         (c)   A minimum of four grab samples shall be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organics. For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples shall be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques. The YCUA may waive flow-
proportional composite sampling for any nondomestic user that demonstrates that
time proportional sampling is representative of the discharge during the
sampling period. Samples obtained through time-proportional composite sampling
techniques or through a minimum of four grab samples may be approved by the
Director or designee when the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged;
         (d)   With the exception of the pollutants specified in division (B)
(5)(c) above, the user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile the data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division (B)
(5);
         (e)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if the facilities exist or immediately downstream from the regulated
process if pretreatment facilities do not exist. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater before pretreatment, the nondomestic user should
measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula specified in R 323.2311(7) to evaluate compliance with the
pretreatment standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been
calculated in accordance with R 323.2311(5), the adjusted limit and supporting
data shall be submitted to YCUA;
         (f)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007). Where 40 C.F.R.
part 136 (March 26, 2007) does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the E.P.A.. determines that the part
136 (March 26, 2007) sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for
the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using
validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical
procedures, including procedures suggested by YCUA or other parties, approved
by the E.P.A.;
         (g)   The YCUA may allow the submission of a baseline report that
utilizes only historical data if the data provides information sufficient to
determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures; and
         (h)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date, and place of
sampling and the methods of analysis and shall certify that the sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (6)   A statement, reviewed by an authorized representative of the
nondomestic user and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance or additional pretreatment is required for
the nondomestic user to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   If additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
nondomestic user will provide additional pretreatment or operation and
maintenance. The completion date in the schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. All of
the following conditions shall apply to compliance schedules:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the
nondomestic user to meet the applicable categorical pretreatment standards. The
events may include any of the following:
            1.   The hiring of an engineer;
            2.   Completing preliminary plans;
            3.   Completing final plans;
            4.   Executing contracts for major components;
            5.   Commencing construction;
            6.   Completing construction; and
            7.   Other similar major events.
         (b)   An increment referred to in this division (B)(7) shall not be
more than nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the nondomestic user shall submit a progress
report to YCUA, including, at a minimum, whether or not the user complied with
the increment of progress to be met on a particular date and, if not, the date
on which the user expects to comply with the increment of progress, the reason
for delay, and the steps being taken by the nondomestic user to return the
construction to the schedule established. Not more than nine months shall
elapse between progress reports to YCUA.
      (8)   Where the nondomestic user’s categorical pretreatment standard has
been modified by a removal allowance under R 323.2311(7) or a fundamentally
different factors variance under R 323.2313(b) at the time the nondomestic user
submits the report required by this rule, the information required by divisions
(B)(6) and (B)(7) above shall pertain to the modified limits.
      (9)   Any changes to information requested under divisions (B)(1) to (B)
(5) above shall be submitted by the nondomestic user to YCUA within 60 days.
(Prior Code, § X-3.45)
§ 54.018  ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIRED AND PERIODIC REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the sewage works, POTW or
the WWTP, any nondomestic user subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit to the Director and/or YCUA a report containing the
information required in divisions (B)(5) and (B)(6) below. For industrial users
subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits established by YCUA in
accordance with the procedures in R 323.2311(5) of the Part 23 Rules
promulgated under the State Act or otherwise established by the Act or the
State Act or rules promulgated thereunder, the report shall contain a
reasonable measure of the nondomestic user’s long-term production rate. For all
other nondomestic users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed
in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production, or other
measure of operation, the report shall include the nondomestic user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period.
   (B)   The YCUA may impose mass limitations on users which are using dilution
to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases in
which the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
   (C)   All of the following provisions shall apply to periodic reports on
continued compliance.
      (1)   Any nondomestic user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard
after the compliance date of the pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new
source, after commencement of the discharge into the publicly owned treatment
works shall submit, to the YCUA semiannually, unless required more frequently
in the pretreatment standard or by the YCUA, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent that are limited by the categorical
pretreatment standards. In addition, the report shall include a record of
measured or appropriately estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period for the discharge reported in §
54.017, except that YCUA may require more detailed reporting of flows.
      (2)   Where YCUA has imposed mass limitations on nondomestic users as
provided for by R 323.2311(5) of the Part 23 Rules promulgated under the State
Act or where such limitations are otherwise established by the Act or the State
Act or Rules promulgated thereunder, the report required by division (C)(1)
above shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards
in the discharge from the nondomestic user.
      (3)   For nondomestic users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the YCUA or under the Act or the State Act or Rules
promulgated thereunder, the report required by division (C)(1) above shall
contain a reasonable measure of the nondomestic user’s long-term production
rate. For all other nondomestic users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed only in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production, or other measure of operation, the report required by division (C)
(1) immediately above shall include the nondomestic user’s actual average
production rate for the reporting period.
   (D)   All categorical and non-categorical nondomestic users shall notify the
YCUA immediately of all discharges that could cause problems to the POTW,
including any slug loadings.
   (E)   All of the following provisions apply to significant industrial users
that are categorical industrial users or non-categorical users in regards to
monitoring and analysis to demonstrate continued compliance:
      (1)   The reports required in §
54.017 or this subchapter or in this section shall contain the results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the YCUA, of
pollutants contained in the discharge that are limited by the applicable
pretreatment standards. The sampling and analysis may be performed by the YCUA
instead of the nondomestic user. Where the YCUA elects to perform the required
sampling and analysis instead of the nondomestic user, the nondomestic user
will not be required to submit the compliance certification required under §
54.017 and division (A) above. In addition, where the YCUA collects all the
information required for the report, including flow data, the nondomestic user
will not be required to submit the report. The YCUA shall provide, to the
nondomestic user, within ten days after the results are available, the results
of any sampling the YCUA performs for nondomestic user self-monitoring that
show a violation of any pretreatment standard. Any certification required by a
categorical pretreatment standard shall be included with the semiannual
compliance reports.
      (2)   If sampling performed by a nondomestic user indicates a violation
of pretreatment standards, the nondomestic user shall notify the YCUA within 24
hours of becoming aware of the violation. The nondomestic user shall also
repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis
to the YCUA within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation; however, the
nondomestic user is not required to resample if the YCUA performs sampling at
the nondomestic user at a frequency of at least once per month or if the YCUA
performs sampling at the nondomestic user between the time when the nondomestic
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the nondomestic user
receives the results of the sampling.
      (3)   The reports required in division (C) above shall be based upon data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, which data is representative of conditions occurring
during the reporting period. The YCUA may require a frequency of monitoring
that is necessary to assess and assure compliance by nondomestic users with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   All analyses shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the E.P.A. pursuant to § 304(h) of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1314(h), and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007) or with
any other test procedures approved by the E.P.A. Sampling shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques approved by the E.P.A. Where the provisions of
40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007) do not include sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutants in question, or where the E.P.A. determines that
the part 136 (March 26, 2007) sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be
performed using validated analytical methods or any other sampling and
analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the YCUA or other
parties and approved by the E.P.A.
      (5)   If a nondomestic user monitors any pollutant more frequently than
required by the YCUA using the procedures prescribed in division (E)(4) above,
the results of the monitoring shall be included in the report.
      (6)   A minimum of one grab sample shall be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organics. For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples shall be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques. The YCUA may waive flow-
proportional composite sampling for any nondomestic user that demonstrates that
time-proportional sampling is representative of the discharge during the
sampling period. Samples obtained through time-proportional composite sampling
techniques or through a minimum of four grab samples may be approved by the
Director or designee when the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged.
   (F)   The YCUA may require appropriate reporting from nondomestic users that
have discharges, which are not subject to categorical pretreatment standards.
Significant industrial users shall submit, to the YCUA, at least semiannually,
a description of the nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants required
to be reported by the YCUA. The reports shall be based on sampling and analysis
performed in the period covered by the report and performed in accordance with
the techniques described in 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007). Where the
provisions of 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007) do not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the E.P.A.
determines that the part 136 (March 26, 2007) sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analysis shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the YCUA or other persons and approved by the E.P.A. The sampling and
analysis may be performed by the YCUA instead of the significant industrial
user. Where the YCUA collects all of the information required for the report,
the significant industrial user will not be required to submit the report. The
YCUA shall provide, to the nondomestic user, within ten days after the results
are available, the results of any sampling it performs for nondomestic user
self-monitoring that show a violation of any pretreatment standard. Where YCUA
performs sampling for a significant industrial user, YCUA must perform any
required repeat sampling and analysis within 30 days of becoming aware of a
violation.
   (G)   All periodic compliance reports shall be certified and signed by the
authorized representative of the industrial user. The authorized representative
shall state the following certification when submitting the periodic compliance
reports to YCUA: “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all
attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with
a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Prior Code, § X-3.46)
§ 54.019  POWERS OF THE YCUA.
   Wastewater discharges shall be expressly subject to all provisions of this
subchapter, the Act and State Act and all other applicable regulations
established by the YCUA. The YCUA may:
   (A)   Limit the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (B)   Limit the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or make
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (C)   Require the installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling
facilities;
   (D)   Establish specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
   (E)   Establish compliance schedules;
   (F)   Require submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
   (G)   Require the maintaining, retaining and furnishing of plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the YCUA, and affording YCUA
access thereto, and copying thereof;
   (H)   Require notification of slug discharges and accidental spills; and
   (I)   Require other conditions as deemed appropriate by the YCUA to ensure
compliance with this subchapter, the Act and the State Act. The YCUA shall
require notification of the YCUA for any new introduction of wastewater
constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of the
wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment system.
(Prior Code, § X-3.47)
§ 54.020  SAMPLING AND MONITORING FACILITIES MAY BE REQUIRED.
   The YCUA shall, when determined necessary by the Director, require to be
provided and operated at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow
inspection, sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal
drainage systems. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the user. Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling
and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with plans and
specifications submitted to and approved by the YCUA and all applicable local
construction standards and specifications. Construction shall be completed
within 90 days following written notification by the YCUA.
(Prior Code, § X-3.48)
§ 54.021  RIGHT TO ACCESS OF FACILITIES FOR INSPECTION, SAMPLING, RECORDS
EXAMINATION, RECORD COPYING OR OTHER DUTIES.
   The YCUA shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this subchapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the YCUA or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination, records copying or in the performance of any of
their duties. The YCUA, DNRE and E.P.A. shall have the right to set up on the
user’s property, at the user’s expense, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
Where security measures are in force which would require proper identification
and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards or other appropriate personnel so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the YCUA, DNRE and
E.P.A. will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § X-3.49)
§ 54.022  COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this subchapter, the Act and State Act and shall
achieve compliance with all pretreatment standards within the time limitations
as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations and as required by the
YCUA, the Act or the State Act. Any industrial user that qualifies as a new
source is required to have pretreatment equipment installed and operational
before discharging and shall be in full compliance within 90 days of initial
discharge. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable
to the YCUA shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the YCUA for review, and shall be approved by the YCUA
before construction of the facility. The review of the plans and operating
procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the YCUA under
the provisions of this subchapter, the Act or the State Act. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the YCUA prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   As required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8, the YCUA shall publish at least
annually in a newspaper(s) of general circulation that provides meaningful
public notice within the jurisdiction(s) served by the POTW of the industrial
users which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance
with any applicable pretreatment requirements. All records relating to
compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made available to officials of
the E.P.A. or DNRE upon request.
(Prior Code, § X-3.50)
§ 54.023  CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the DNRE and the E.P.A. without restriction and shall be available
to the public without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is
able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that the release of the
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user, in accord with applicable
provisions of the state freedom of information act, Public Act 442 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq., as amended and Rule 323.2314 of the Part 23
Rules promulgated under the State Act.
(Prior Code, § X-3.51)
§ 54.024  ENFORCEMENT BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   All orders, directives, legal and/or equitable actions, which are
necessary and appropriate to enforce this subchapter, the Act and State Act
shall be carried out by YCUA and/or the township.
   (B)   Nothing contained in division (A) above shall preclude the township or
YCUA from instituting, maintaining or joining any legal and/or equitable
actions to enforce this subchapter, the Act and State Act.
(Prior Code, § X-3.52)
§ 54.025  RECORDS, ACCOUNTS, AUDITS, CLASSIFICATION OF USERS, INSURANCE.
   (A)   The YCUA will maintain and keep proper books of records and accounts,
separate from all other records and accounts, in which shall be made full and
correct entries of all transactions relating to the POTW. The YCUA will cause
an annual audit of the books of record and account for the preceding operating
year to be made by a recognized independent certified public accountant, and
will supply the audit report to authorized public officials on request.
   (B)   In conjunction with the audit there shall be an annual review of the
sewer charge system for adequacies meeting expected expenditures for the
following year.
   (C)   Classification of old and new industrial users may also be reviewed
annually.
   (D)   The YCUA will maintain and carry insurance on all physical properties
of the system, of the kinds and in the amounts normally carried by public
utility companies and municipalities engaged in the operation of sewage
disposal systems.
   (E)   Retention of records: a user shall retain records of all monitoring
information, including, all calibration and maintenance records and all
original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation,
copies of all reports required by this subchapter, an order, or a permit, all
documentation associated with best management practices, and the records of all
data used to complete the application for a permit, for a period of at least
three years from the date of a sample, measurement, report application or
orders. This period may be extended by the Ypsilanti Community Utilities
Authority at any time.
(Prior Code, § X-3.53)
§ 54.026  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the Ypsilanti Community
Utilities Authority bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, the Act and State Act.
(Prior Code, § X-3.54)
§ 54.027  ENFORCEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Emergency suspension. The Director may suspend the wastewater
treatment service and/or any permit issued under this subchapter when a
suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the Director, in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge that presents or may present an imminent or
substantial danger to the health or welfare of persons or the environment, the
POTW, or constitutes a violation of any condition of a NPDES or other permit,
this subchapter, the Act or State Act. Any user notified of a suspension of
wastewater treatment services or a permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
its discharge into a township or YCUA sanitary sewer. If a user fails to
immediately comply with a suspension order as required in this section, the
YCUA shall take steps as deemed necessary, including immediate termination or
severance of the user’s sewer connection to prevent or minimize damage to any
person, the POTW or the environment. The YCUA shall allow the user to
recommence its discharge upon receipt of proof of compliance with this
subchapter and the elimination of the discharge and/or identified danger. A
user whose wastewater treatment service or permit has been suspended under this
subchapter shall submit, within 15 days of the suspension, a written statement
to the Director describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the measures
taken to prevent future harmful discharges in addition to other information
required by this subchapter or otherwise required by the Act or State Act under
such circumstances.
   (B)   Notice letter. The minimum enforcement response that the Director or
his or her designee will use to notify a user that a violation of the local
applicable sewer use article or YCUA industrial pretreatment program has
occurred or is occurring.
   (C)   Notification of violation. Whenever the Director finds that any user
has violated or is violating any provision of this subchapter or a wastewater
discharge permit, an order issued under his or her this chapter, the Act or
State Act, the Director may serve upon said user written notice of the
violation. Within 30 days of receipt of the notice, the user shall submit to
the Director or designee an explanation of the violation and a written plan for
satisfactory correction. Submission of this plan does not relieve the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation or as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Act or State Act.
   (D)   Show cause order. The Director may order any user violating this
subchapter or the IPP a permit, an order issued under this subchapter, the Act,
or State Act, to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The show cause notice shall require the user to appear before the
Director for a show cause meeting within a reasonable time, not less than ten
days after first-class mailing of the order to the user’s recorded or last
known address. Enforcement action may be pursued whether or not a user appears
at a show cause meeting and issuance of a show cause order does not relieve the
user of liability for any violation occurring before or after receipt of the
notice or as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Act or State Act.
   (E)   Consent order. The Director is empowered to enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance and other similar documented agreements
establishing an agreement with a user responsible for noncompliance with an
order, permit, this subchapter, the Act or State Act. A document may include
compliance schedules, stipulated fines or penalties, the amount of which shall
not be limited by the civil fine assessment provision of this subchapter,
remedial actions and signatures of the Director and user. Consent orders or
similar documented agreements prepared and executed under this section shall
have the same force and effect as other orders issued under this subchapter.
   (F)   Compliance order. When the Director finds that a user has violated or
continues to violate this subchapter, a permit, an order issued under this
subchapter, the Act or State Act, an order may be issued to the user directing
that, following a specified time period, sewer service shall be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances
have been installed and are properly operated and compliance is otherwise
achieved. An order may contain other requirements as might be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including, but not
limited to, the installation of pre-treatment technology, additional self-
monitoring and new management practices. Issuance of a compliance order does
not relieve the user of liability for any violation occurring before or after
receipt of the notice or as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the Act or
State Act.
   (G)   Cease and desist order. When the Director finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate this subchapter, a permit, an order issued
under this subchapter, the Act or State Act, an order may be issued to the user
responsible for the violation directing that the violations cease and desist
immediately. In an emergency, the order to cease and desist may be given by
telephone. In a non-emergency situation, the cease and desist order may be used
to suspend or permanently revoke an industrial wastewater discharge permit or
permits. A cease and desist order may require the user to take appropriate
remedial or preventive action as may be needed to properly address a continuing
or threatened violation, including halting operations and terminating the
discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist order does not relieve the user of
liability for any violation occurring before or after receipt of the order or
as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (H)   Termination of wastewater discharge permit.
      (1)   Any user who has a permit who violates the following conditions of
a wastewater discharge permit or violates this subchapter, the Act or State Act
or any applicable state or federal law or regulation is subject to permit
termination:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises or records
for the purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling or for any other purpose
permitted under this subchapter, the Act or State Act;
         (d)   Failure to comply with an order issued under this subchapter; or
         (e)   For those reasons stated in §
54.032 or for any other reason permitting termination as provided in this
subchapter, the Act or State Act.
      (2)   Users shall be notified of the proposed permit termination and
shall be offered an opportunity to show cause under the provision of division
(D) above, why the proposed action should not be taken.
   (I)   Administrative assessments. Notwithstanding any other section of this
subchapter, any user who violates any provision of this subchapter, a permit,
an order issued under this subchapter, the Act or State Act, shall be liable to
the YCUA and/or township for any expense loss or damage occasioned by reason of
the violation, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and may
be subject to an administrative assessment by the YCUA in an amount of $1,000
per violation, per day. Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or is
continued shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation. The expense, loss,
damage or assessments may be added to a user’s sewer service charges and the
YCUA and the township shall have other collection rights and remedies as
designated by law, the Act, the State Act and this subchapter to collect these
sewer service charges.
   (J)   Judicial remedies. A person who violates any provision of this
subchapter, a permit, an order issued under this subchapter, the Act or State
Act, is subject to the judicial remedies described below in addition to being
responsible for a civil fine assessment or a misdemeanor or any administrative
remedy or enforcement action provided for in this subchapter.
      (1)   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the provisions
of this subchapter, a permit, an order issued under this subchapter, the Act or
the State Act, the Director, through counsel, may petition the Circuit Court
for issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction or both to restrain or
compel certain activities on the part of the user.
      (2)   Any user who has violated or continues to violate any order or
permit issued hereunder may be liable to the YCUA in such judicial proceedings
for a civil fine assessment of $1,000, plus actual damages, direct or indirect,
incurred by the YCUA, per violation, per day, for as long as the violation
continues. Additionally, the YCUA may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with any enforcement activities, including
sampling, monitoring and analysis expenses.
      (3)   The Director, through counsel, may petition the Circuit Court to
impose, assess and recover the assessments and sums. In determining the amount
of liability, the court shall take into account all relevant circumstances,
including, but not limited to the extent of harm caused by the violation, the
magnitude or duration of the violation, any economic benefit gained by the user
through the violation, corrective actions by the user, the compliance history
of the user and any other relevant factor.
   (K)   Liens. Any fine or other assessment issued or imposed under this
subchapter or other costs or charges imposed under this subchapter may be added
to the user’s sewer service charges and the YCUA shall have other collection
rights and remedies as designated by law and this subchapter to collect the
charges and all unpaid charges, fines, assessments, penalties and service
charges shall constitute and may be recorded as a lien against the user’s
property if not paid within the time frame allocated by YCUA or a court for
payment.
   (L)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person or user subject to enforcement action under the
provisions of this subchapter, the Act or State Act, except for civil fine
assessment notices, consent orders, emergency actions under this subchapter or
judicial actions by YCUA, may request a hearing before the Director within ten
days of receipt of notification of the proposed enforcement action. A hearing
shall then be held by the Director concerning the violation, the reasons why
the enforcement action has been taken, the proposed enforcement action, and the
user’s explanation or other relevant evidence. An appeal may be taken from the
Director’ s final decision.
      (2)   The following rules shall apply to the hearing and appeal.
         (a)   The Director may issue notices of a hearing requiring the
attendance and testimony of witnesses or the production of evidence relative to
the hearing.
         (b)   In the event a request for hearing is not filed within ten days
of the user’s notice of an enforcement action, failure to file a request shall
be deemed a waiver of any and all hearing or appeal rights established under
this subchapter.
         (c)   A request for hearing shall state the basis for the request, the
reasons in support of the request and any alternative relief which the
aggrieved party seeks.
         (d)   During the pendency of any hearing process or appeal the user
must comply with the enforcement action or YCUA order from which the appeal is
taken.
         (e)   At the hearing, testimony must be taken under oath and recorded
stenographically. A transcript of the hearing shall be made available to any
member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of usual and
reasonable charges.
         (f)   After the Director has held a hearing and reviewed the evidence,
he or she may issue an order affirming, modifying or withdrawing the
enforcement action.
         (g)   Within 15 days from receipt of the Director’ s final decision,
the aggrieved party may appeal the decision to the Board stating the grounds on
which the appeal is based together with all documents, evidence, transcripts
and information in support of the aggrieved party’s position. In addition, the
aggrieved party shall file five copies of the appeal and supporting
documentation with the Board and serve an additional copy on the Director.
         (h)   The Director shall have 30 days to respond to the appeal and to
submit all evidence, documents and information in support of the Director’s
decision and shall file five copies with the Board and shall serve an
additional copy on the aggrieved party.
         (i)   1.   Within 30 days of receiving the Director’s response the
Board shall meet and review all documents and evidence pertaining to the appeal
and shall issue an order affirming the Director’s order, affirming the
Director’s order in part and reversing in part, or reversing the Director’s
order in full.
            2.   The Board shall forward a copy of its decision to all
interested parties.
   (M)   Industrial pretreatment program and enforcement response plan. This
section, the Act and State Act shall also be enforced by the YCUA pursuant to a
written industrial pretreatment program adopted by YCUA as required by the Act
and State Act which plan shall include those plan elements required by the Act
and State Act including, but not limited to, an enforcement response plan
designed to achieve enforcement of that program. That enforcement response plan
shall provide for, at minimum, those powers of enforcement granted by this
subchapter, the Act and State Act.
(Prior Code, § X-3.55)
§ 54.028  SURCHARGE; FEES.
   The Director shall also establish appropriate surcharges or fees to
reimburse the YCUA for the additional cost of operation and maintenance of the
sewage works or POTW due to the violations of this subchapter, the Act or State
Act.
(Prior Code, § X-3.56)
§ 54.029  PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS FOR NONDOMESTIC USERS.
   (A)   All nondomestic users must notify the Director of the nature and
characteristics of their wastewater prior to commencing their discharge. The
Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for significant industrial users to discharge
wastewater, either directly or indirectly, into the sewage works or POTW
township’s sanitary sewer system without first obtaining an industrial user
pretreatment permit from the YCUA. Any violation of the terms and conditions of
an industrial user pretreatment permit shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter. Obtaining an industrial user pretreatment permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to obtain other permits required by federal, state
or local law.
   (C)   The Director may require that other industrial users, including liquid
waste haulers, obtain industrial user pretreatment permits as necessary to
carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
   (D)   Any industrial user located beyond the Ypsilanti Township limits shall
submit a permit application in accordance with Article 62 of the Ypsilanti
Township Sewer Use Article within 60 days of the effective date of the
ordinance from which this subchapter is derived. New industrial users located
beyond the Ypsilanti Township limits shall submit applications to the Director
60 days prior to discharging into the sewage works or POTW. Upon review and
approval of the application, the Director may enter into a contract with the
user which requires the user to subject itself to, and abide by this
subchapter, including all permitting, compliance monitoring, reporting, and
enforcement provisions contained in this subchapter, the Act or State Act.
   (E)   Any significant industrial user which discharges nondomestic waste
into the sewage works or POTW prior to the effective date of the ordinance from
which this subchapter is derived and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future, shall, within 90 days after the date, apply to the YCUA for an
industrial user pretreatment permit and shall not cause or allow discharges to
the POTW to continue after 180 days from and after the effective date of the
ordinance from which this subchapter is derived except in accordance with a
permit issued by the Director.
   (F)   Any significant industrial user proposing to begin or recommence
discharging nondomestic wastes into the sewage works or POTW must obtain a
pretreatment permit prior to beginning or recommencing the discharge. An
application for this permit must be filed at least 60 days prior to the
anticipated start up date.
(Prior Code, § X-3.57)
§ 54.030  APPLICATION.
   (A)   In order to be considered for a pretreatment permit, all industrial
users required to have a permit must submit the information required by §
54.016 on an application form approved by the Director.
   (B)   When required, plans must be certified for accuracy by a state
registered professional engineer.
   (C)   All applications must contain the following certification statement
and be signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user: “I
certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   The Director will evaluate the data furnished by the industrial user
and may require additional information. After evaluation of the data furnished,
the Director may issue an industrial user pretreatment permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
   (E)   At the time an application for a permit is made, the user shall pay to
YCUA a permit fee in an amount established from time to time by the Board,
which fee shall be refunded to the user in the event the permit is denied. In
addition to the above-stated permit fee, the user shall pay to YCUA a
nonrefundable permit fee equal to YCUA’s expenses incurred in hiring
laboratories, engineers or other consultants for the purpose of evaluating the
permit application submitted by the user to YCUA.
(Prior Code, § X-3.58)
§ 54.031  CONTENTS.
   (A)   Pretreatment permits shall include such conditions as are reasonably
deemed necessary by the Director to prevent pass through or interference,
protect the quality of the water body receiving the POTW’ s effluent, protect
worker health and safety, facilitate POTW sludge management and disposal,
protect ambient air quality, and protect against damage to the POTW collection
system or plant and ensure compliance with this subchapter, the Act and State
Act. Permits shall contain a statement of the duration of the permit which
shall not be more than five years; a statement of permit non-transferability
without prior notification to the YCUA and provision of a copy of the existing
permit to the new owner or operator; effluent limits based on applicable
general pretreatment standards, categorical pretreatment standards, local
limits and state and local law; self monitoring, sampling, reporting,
notification, and record keeping requirements, including identification of the
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type, based on the applicable general pretreatment standards, categorical
pretreatment standards, local limit and state and local law; and a statement of
applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of pretreatment standards
and requirements and any applicable compliance schedule. The schedule may not
extend the compliance date beyond applicable federal or state deadlines.
   (B)   Permits may contain, but need not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum concentration, mass or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, or similar requirements
designed to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the sewage works or POTW;
      (4)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including additional management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated or routing discharges;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the sewage works or POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (7)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules;
      (8)   Compliance schedules;
      (9)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (10)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Director and affording the
Director, or his or her representatives, access thereto;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater being introduced in the sewage works or POTW;
      (12)   Requirements for the notification of any change in the
manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the permittee. Requirements
for notification to YCUA of excessive, accidental or slug discharges;
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure
compliance with this subchapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations, including the Act and State Act; and
      (14)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal, state
or local pretreatment standards or limits, including those which become
effective during the term of the permit.
(Prior Code, § X-3.59)
§ 54.032  ISSUANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed
five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at the
discretion of the Director.
   (B)   The Director will provide all interested persons with notice of final
permit terms. Upon notice by the Director, any person, including the industrial
user, may petition to appeal the terms of the permit within 30 days of the
notice.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the permit
provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and the alternative
condition, if any, it seeks to be placed in the permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the permit shall not be stayed pending a
reconsideration by the Board. If, after considering the petition and any
arguments put forth by the Director, the Board determines that reconsideration
is proper, it shall remand the permit back to the Director for reissuance.
Those permit provisions being reconsidered by the Director shall be stayed
pending reissuance.
      (4)   A Board’ s decision not to reconsider a final permit shall be
considered final administrative action for purposes of judicial review.
   (C)   The Director may modify or terminate the permit for good cause
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   Material or substantial alterations or additions to the
discharger’s operation processes, or discharge volume or character which were
not considered in drafting the effective permit;
      (3)   A change in any condition in either the Industrial user or the POTW
that requires either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the
authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the sewage works or POTW or POTW personnel or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts
in the permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from such categorical standards
pursuant to 40 C.F.R.
part 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit;
      (9)   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a
new owner/operator;
      (10)   Upon request of the permittee, provided such request does not
create a violation of any applicable requirements, standards, laws or rules and
regulations;
      (11)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (12)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (13)   Refusing to allow timely access to the facility premises and
records;
      (14)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (15)   Failure to pay fines;
      (16)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (17)   Failure to meet compliance schedules; and
      (18)   As provided in §
54.027.
   (D)   The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification,
revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of planned changes
or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition.
   (E)   Permits may be reassigned or transferred to a new owner and/or
operator with prior approval of the Director, if:
      (1)   The permittee must give at least 30 days advance notice to the
Director; and
      (2)   The notice must include a written certification by the new owner
which:
         (a)   States that the new owner has no immediate intent to change the
facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
permit.
   (F)   The user shall apply for permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application a minimum of 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s
existing permit. An expired permit will continue to be effective and
enforceable until the permit is reissued, if:
      (1)   The industrial user has submitted a complete permit application at
least 90 days prior to the expiration date of the user’s existing permit; and
      (2)   The failure to reissue the permit, prior to expiration of the
previous permit, is not due to any act or failure to act on the part of the
industrial user.
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the POTW and any user whereby
wastewater of unusual strength or character is accepted into the POTW and
specially treated and subject to any payments or user charges, as may be
applicable. However, no discharge which violates pretreatment standards will be
allowed under the terms of such special agreements. If, in the opinion of the
Director, the wastewater may have the potential to cause or result in any of
the following circumstances, no special agreement will be made:
      (1)   Pass through or interference; and
      (2)   Endanger municipal employees or the public.
(Prior Code, § X-3.60)
§ 54.033  FUNDING/FEES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the POTW. The applicable charges or fees established by the Board
shall be sufficient to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance,
improvement or replacement of the system, or as provided by law or by Board
action.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt charges and fees which shall include, but not
necessarily limited to:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of establishing, operating,
maintaining or improving the YCUA’s industrial pretreatment programs and
enforcement response plan;
      (2)   User fees based upon volume of waste and concentration or quantity
of specific pollutants in a discharge, and to cover other treatment costs
including sludge handling and disposal;
      (3)   Reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs for enforcement hearings
or other enforcement action including, but not limited to, expenses regarding
hearings officers, court reporters and transcriptions; and
      (4)   Other fees, which the Board may deem necessary, to carry out the
requirements contained herein and continued in other IPP and ERP, or as may be
required by law.
(Prior Code, § X-3.62)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 54.045  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof or any
part of the sewage works or POTW without first obtaining a written permit from
the Director.
(Prior Code, § X-3.65)  Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.046  CLASSES OF PERMITS; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the township or YCUA The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent, in the judgment of the township or YCUA. A permit and
inspection fee for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the township at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § X-3.66)
§ 54.047  COSTS OF CONNECTION TO BE BORNE BY OWNER; INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWNSHIP
AND YCUA.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
township and the YCUA from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § X-3.67)
§ 54.048  SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § X-3.68)
§ 54.049  USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the township or YCUA, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § X-3.69)
§ 54.050  CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building sewer
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
township or YCUA. In the absence of the code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the ASTM and WEF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § X-3.70)
§ 54.051  ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § X-3.71)
§ 54.052  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer.
   (B)   The YCUA shall not allow any connection to the sanitary sewer unless
there is sufficient capacity in the sewage works to convey and adequately treat
the additional wastewater from the proposed connection.
(Prior Code, § X-3.72)  Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.053  CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules land regulations of the YCUA or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WEF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
   (B)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the YCUA before installation.
(Prior Code, § X-3.73)
§ 54.054  INSPECTION; SUPERVISION OF CONNECTION.
   The contractor installing the building sewer shall notify the YCUA when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of YCUA.
(Prior Code, § X-3.74)
§ 54.055  GUARDS FOR EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the township and YCUA.
(Prior Code, § X-3.75)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 54.070  REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
township, or in any area under its jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet, any sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted water, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other faculty
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the township
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer of
the township, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
sewage facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter,
within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so provided that the
public sewer is within 200 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § X-3.76)  Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.071  UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, water from footing drains, roof water, or other
unpolluted water to any sanitary sewer or sewer connection except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter. Any premises connected to a storm sewer shall
comply with county, state and federal requirements as well as those by the
township and the YCUA.
   (B)   Storm water, groundwater, water from footing drains and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into such sewers as are specifically
designated as combined sewers, or to a natural outlet, except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged upon application and approval of the YCUA and the
appropriate state agency to a storm sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § X-3.77)  Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.072  FATS, OILS AND GREASE (FOG) INTERCEPTOR AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Fats, oils and grease (FOG) and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing fats, oils or grease discharges in which the
concentration in a grab sample exceeds the 100 mg/l limit, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for single-family or multiple-family dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Director and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted into place shall be gas-tight and water-tight. When
installed, all fats, oils, and grease, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times. A user may petition the Director for an exemption from
having to install a fats, oils and grease (FOG) interceptor in accordance with
provisions specified in the YCUA FOG mitigation program policy, as amended from
time to time. Upon approval by the Director, YCUA’s contract communities that
have a fats, oils and grease ordinance/policy can implement the ordinance/
policy in lieu of this section and the YCUA fats, oils and grease mitigation
program policy.
(Prior Code, § X-3.78)
§ 54.073  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will pass through or interfere with the
operation or performance of the sewage works. A user may not contribute the
following substances to the sewage works:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
sewage works or to the operation of the sewage works;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities;
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 11.0; or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants or of high chlorine demand
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants,
to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of
the sewage works, or exceed the limitation set forth in the E.P.A. categorical
pretreatment standard, or any other federal, state or county standards;
   (E)   Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or fumes
within the POTW in a quantity that may cause worker health and safety problems.
This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, wastewaters which contain
liquids, solids or gases that cause gases, vapors or fumes from the discharge
to exceed 10% of the immediately dangerous to life and health (IDLH)
concentration. Discharges which contain more than one pollutant which may
contribute to fume toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations,
as determined necessary by the Director. The more restrictive discharge limits
shall be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all compounds
identified or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge;
   (F)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which singly or by
interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance or
hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance and repair;
   (G)   Any substance, which may cause the sewage, works such as residues,
sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for land application or reclamation and
reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process;
   (H)   Any substance, which will cause the sewage, works to violate its NPDES
permit or the receiving water quality standards;
   (I)   Any wastewater with color of sufficient light absorbency to interfere
with treatment plant process, prevent analytical determinations, or create any
aesthetic effect on the treatment plant effluent, such as, but not limited to,
dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions;
   (J)   Daily maximum concentration or mass loading shall not be exceeded on
any single calendar day. Where daily maximum limitations are expressed in terms
of a concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetical measurement of the
pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day. Where
daily maximum limitations are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge
is the total mass discharged during the day. If a composite sample is required
for a parameter, the determination whether the daily maximum limitation for
that parameter has been exceeded on a single calendar day shall be based on the
composite sample collected for that parameter on that calendar day. If grab
samples are required for a parameter, the determination whether the daily
maximum limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a calendar day shall
be based on the average of all grab samples collected for that parameter on
that calendar day. If only one grab sample is collected for a parameter on a
given day, the determination whether the daily maximum limitation for that
parameter has been exceeded for the day shall be based on the results of that
single grab sample. If the pollutant concentration in any sample is less than
the applicable detection limit, that value shall be regarded as zero when
calculating the daily maximum concentration;
   (K)   Any wastewater having a temperature, which will inhibit biological
activity in the sewage, works resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the sewage works, which
exceeds 60°C (140°F) or is lower than 0°C (32°
   (L)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-
life or concentration as may exceed limits established by applicable state or
federal regulations;
   (M)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance;
   (N)   Organic solvent extractable substances such as fats, wax, grease or
oils of petroleum origin, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32°F (0°C) and 140°F (60°C);
   (N)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquids, solids or gases; or other pollutants which cause the wastewater to
have a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C), or which cause an
exceedance of 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) at any point within the
collection system or containing gasoline, benzene, xylene or toluene which
causes the wastewater to exceed the state surface water quality standard;
   (O)   Any garbage that has not been ground by household type or other
suitable garbage grinders;
   (P)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch, manure or any other solids or viscous
substances capable of causing obstructions or other interferences with the
proper operation of the sewer system;
   (Q)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, or to constitute hazards to
humans or animals, or to create any hazard in waters which receive the POTW
effluent, which shall include, but are not limited to, wastes containing
cyanide, chromium, cadmium, mercury, copper and nickel ions;
   (R)   Solids of such character and quantity that special and unusual
attention is required for their handling;
   (S)   Any substance which would cause the treatment plant to be in
noncompliance with sludge use, recycle or disposal criteria pursuant to
guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Federal Act, being the
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act,  being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or other regulations or criteria for sludge management
and disposal as required by the state;
   (T)   Any medical or infectious wastes prohibited from being discharged
under federal or state law and regulations;
   (U)   Material considered a hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
   (V)   Any commercial or industrial waste that may cause pass through of
pollutants or interference with the wastewater treatment plant operations or
that violates federal, state or local restrictions;
   (W)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause
interference with the POTW;
   (X)   Trucked and hauled waste, except at discharge points designated by the
POTW;
   (Y)   Pollutants causing toxic gases, vapors and fumes;
   (Z)   Any leachate from a hazardous waste landfill;
   (AA)   Any landfill leachate unless permitted and authorized under a written
contract, within YCUA’s sole discretion, between YCUA and the user; and
   (BB)   Any pollutant discharge which constitutes a slug.
(Prior Code, § X-3.79)
§ 54.074  PROMULGATION OF MORE STRINGENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment standards,
alternative discharge limits, or other federal or state limitations, for a
particular industrial subcategory, the pretreatment standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this subchapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this subchapter and
shall be considered part of this subchapter. The YCUA shall notify all affected
users of the applicable reporting requirements.
(Prior Code, § X-3.80)
§ 54.075  PROHIBITED CONCENTRATIONS OF CERTAIN POLLUTANTS AND MERCURY REDUCTION
PLAN.
   (A)   No person shall discharge wastewater that the concentration of
pollutants in one grab sample exceeds the following limits for oil and grease
or pH:
 
100mg/l oil and grease
< 5 or > 11 standard units pH
1.0 mg/l total cyanides
1.0 mg/l total phenolic compounds
 
   (B)   No person shall discharge wastewater that the concentration of
pollutants contained in a representative composite sample is at or above the
following surcharge threshold, except as otherwise permitted in writing by the
Director and on payment of a surcharge fee, and no person shall discharge
wastewater that the concentration of pollutants contained in a representative
composite sample exceeds the following upper limits, with respect to the
following compatible pollutants:
 
Surcharge Threshold Upper Limits Compatibles
300 mg/l            1,000 mg/l   5-day BOD (biochemical oxygen demand)
350 mg/l            2,500 mg/l   Total SS (suspended solids)
600 mg/l            2,000 mg/l   COD (chemical oxygen demand)
15 mg/l             75 mg/l      Total phosphorus
30 mg/l             700 mg/l     Ammonia-nitrogen
 
   (C)   No person shall discharge wastewater that the concentration of
pollutants contained in a representative composite sample shall exceed the
following limits with respect to the following inorganic or organic pollutants
or phenolic compounds:
 Inorganics
              Inorganics
1.0 mg/l      Arsenic
0.002 mg/l    Beryllium
0.50 mg/l     Cadmium
4.0 mg/l      Chromium (total)
3.0 mg/l      Copper
0.3 mg/l      Lead
Nondetectable Mercury
3.0 mg/l      Nickel
0.15 mg/l     Silver
3.0 mg/l      Zinc
 
      (1)   Organics-nondetectable polychlorinated biphenyls (nondetectable per
U.S. E.P.A. Method 608. Any detectable sample exceeds this limit).
      (2)   The local discharge limitation for polychlorinated biphenyls is
established at the level of detection in accordance with the following: there
shall be no detectable amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls discharged to a
township or YCUA sanitary sewer. Polychlorinated biphenyls sampling procedures,
preservation and handling, and analytical protocol for compliance monitoring
shall be in accordance with E.P.A. Method 608. The level of detection,
developed in accordance with the procedure specified in 40 C.F.R. 136, shall
not exceed 0.2 ug/L for polychlorinated biphenyls, unless higher levels are
appropriate due to matrix interference.
   (D)   The total phenols limit is based on the discharge of any or all of the
following phenolic compounds: 2-chlorophenol; 4-chlorophenol; 2, 4-
dichlorophenol; 2,4-dimethylphenol; 2,4-dinitrophenol; 2-methyphenol; 3-
methylphenol; 4-methylphenol; 2-nitrophenol; 4-nitrophenol; and phenol.
Discharge of other phenolic compounds is prohibited except as specifically
authorized by the Director.
   (E)   The Director shall annually review the quantities of industrial
pollutants listed above which are discharged or proposed to be discharged to
the sewage works. The Director shall recommend any revisions to these limits
necessary to insure that the NPDES permit, federal pretreatment standards and
water resources limits are met and to ensure that the industrial discharge will
not interfere with the treatment process of sludge disposal. At such time as
the previously cited limits are changed by the township or YCUA, the unit
authorizing change shall notify the remaining units of the change.
   (F)   The local discharge limitation for mercury is established at the level
of detection in accordance with the following.
      (1)   There shall be no detectable amounts of mercury discharged to a
township or YCUA sanitary sewer. Mercury sampling procedures, preservation and
handling, and analytical protocol for compliance monitoring shall be in
accordance with E.P.A. Method 245.1. The level of detection, developed in
accordance with the procedure specified in 40 C.F.R. 136, shall not exceed 0.2
ug/L for Mercury, unless higher levels are appropriate due to matrix
interference.
      (2)   The evaluation of potential matrix interference(s) shall include,
at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   A demonstration that the laboratory conducting the analysis is
capable of achieving the level of detection of 0.2 ug/l in reagent water;
         (b)   A demonstration that the level of detection of 0.2 ug/l cannot
be achieved in the effluent; and
         (c)   A demonstration that an attempt has been made to resolve the
matrix interference(s).
      (3)   In cases where true matrix interference(s) can be demonstrated, a
discharge-specific level of detection will be developed in accordance with the
procedure in 40 C.F.R. part 136. Discharge-specific levels of detection will be
incorporated into the wastewater discharge permit of the non-domestic user.
      (4)   To ensure that the maximum allowable mercury loading to the POTW is
not exceeded, YCUA may require any non-domestic user with a reasonable
potential to discharge mercury to develop, submit for approval and implement a
mercury reduction plan (MRP). The MRP may be required by permit if the non-
domestic user has not violated the local limit for mercury, but YCUA has
determined that a reasonable potential for the violation may exist. MRP’s may
be required in notices of violations, orders or other enforcement actions when
the non-domestic user has violated the mercury local limit. At a minimum, an
approvable MRP shall contain the following:
         (a)   A written commitment by the non-domestic user to reduce all non-
domestic discharges of mercury to levels below the level of detection within
three years of the MRP’s original approval date;
         (b)   Within 60 days of notification by YCUA that a MRP is required,
the non-domestic user shall supply an initial identification of all potential
sources of mercury which could be discharged to the sanitary sewer system;
         (c)   Specific strategies for mercury reduction with reasonable time
frames for implementation, capable of ensuring that mercury discharges will be
below the specified level of detection within three years;
         (d)   A program for quarterly sampling and analysis of the non-
domestic discharge for mercury in accordance with E.P.A. Method 245.1;
         (e)   A demonstration of specific, measurable and/or otherwise
quantifiable mercury reductions consistent with the goal of reducing mercury
discharges below the specified level of detection. Where reductions cannot be
demonstrated through normal effluent monitoring (for example, mercury
discharges are already near level of detection), the demonstration should
incorporate the following:
            1.   Internal process monitoring, documenting the results of
mercury reduction strategies at sampling locations within the facility (for
example, a program of regular monitoring of sink traps where mercury containing
reagents had previously been disposed, but have since been substituted by non-
mercury containing compounds);
            2.   Internal and/or effluent sampling utilizing clean and/or
ultra-clean sampling and analytical methods as referenced by E.P.A. Federal
Register. The results of the monitoring will not be used for compliance
purposes unless performed in accordance with E.P.A. Method 245.1 and collected
at the appropriate compliance measurement location; and
            3.   Loading calculations wherein the non-domestic user calculates
the total mass of mercury reduced from the sanitary sewer discharge through
reagent substitutions, changes in disposal practices and/or other approved MRP
strategies implemented.
         (f)   A semi-annual report on the status of the mercury reduction
efforts. At a minimum, these reports shall: identify compliance or
noncompliance with specific reduction commitments in the MRP; summarize the
analytical, mass-based or other quantifiable demonstrations of mercury
reductions performed to date; provide all applicable analytical data; provide
an evaluation of effectiveness of actions taken to date; provide updates to the
initial list of mercury containing compounds discharged to the sanitary sewer
and propose for approval new strategies and/or modifications to the current MRP
to continue and improve mercury reduction efforts; and
         (g)   Any other conditions that YCUA deems necessary to ensure that
mercury reduction efforts are effective in achieving the goals of this section.
      (5)   Failure to submit an approvable MRP within 30 days of the required
due date shall constitute significant noncompliance in accordance with this
section, and will result in publication as a significant violator.
      (6)   A MRP may be evaluated for adequacy at any time by YCUA. If an
evaluation determines that the mercury reduction plan is inadequate, or the
non-domestic user has not complied with its approved MRP, the non-domestic user
will be notified. Failure to comply with the MRP requirement constitutes
noncompliance. YCUA will follow its enforcement response plan (ERP) to ensure
that corrective actions are taken.
      (7)   A non-domestic user may request a release from MRP requirements if
all samples of the discharge for a period of one year are less than the
specified level of detection; the non-domestic user has complied with the
minimum monitoring frequency of quarterly sampling events; and YCUA deems that
MRP commitments have been fulfilled sufficiently to ensure continued compliance
with the mercury limitation. YCUA shall notify the non-domestic user of any
release from MRP requirements in writing.
      (8)   If the MRP requirement is waived by YCUA, the non-domestic user
remains subject to the local limitation for mercury in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (9)   Re-discovery of mercury in the non-domestic user discharge subjects
the user to the submission of a new MRP, or escalation of enforcement, in
accordance with the ERP.
   (G)   Implementation of best management practices or best management
practices plan.
      (1)   The Director may require any user to develop and implement best
management practices (BMP) to control, contain, treat, prevent or reduce the
discharge of wastewater, pollutants or other substances from the user’s
premises to the POTW, as determined necessary by the Director.
      (2)   In addition, the Director may require a user to develop and submit
a best management practices plan (“BMPP”), including an enforceable
implementation schedule, for review and approval by the Director. The BMPP
shall be submitted within 30 days after notification by the Director or as
otherwise required by a permit. The BMPP shall be directed at preventing the
entrance of pollutants, directly or indirectly, into the POTW. The BMPP shall
be available for inspection at all times at the premises. At a minimum, a
user’s BMPP shall contain all of the following elements, as determined
necessary by the Director, at a level of detail and in units and terms as
determined necessary by the Director to adequately evaluate the plan:
         (a)   A statement of the purpose and objectives of the plan;
         (b)   A description of the strategies, methods, policies and
procedures to prevent, minimize or reduce the introduction of pollutants into
the user’s discharge and to minimize waste generation;
         (c)   A description of the options available to the user to control
accidental spillage, leaks and drainage;
         (d)   A description of best available or practicable control
technologies available for the user’ s specific circumstances;
         (e)   A detailed facility layout and site diagram showing points of
entry into the (POTWs);
         (f)   A description of the waste handling, treatment and discharge
disposal facilities, including flow diagrams and process schematics;
         (g)   A description of operating and maintenance processes and
procedures;
         (h)   An inventory of raw materials and a list of waste sources,
including a list of all chemicals used or stored at the facility;
         (i)   A description of employee training programs, policies and
procedures; continuing education programs; and participation;
         (j)   A description of the user’s documentation, including record
keeping and forms;
         (k)   A description of monitoring activities;
         (l)   An information log of facility personnel, organization chart,
emergency phone numbers, contact persons and maintenance or service
representatives;
         (m)   A certification by a qualified professional that the plan is
adequate to prevent spills, leaks, slug loads or non-customary discharges of
regulated substances, directly or indirectly, to the POTW; and
         (n)   Such other information, documents or diagrams as required by the
Director, including, but not limited to, any of the information required under
this subchapter, the Act, or state law.
      (3)   The BMPs or BMPP required of a user or approved for a user shall be
incorporated in a user permit issued to the user. If the user already has a
user permit, the existing permit shall be modified to incorporate the BMP
requirements. If the user does not currently have a user permit, a permit shall
be issued for that purpose.
      (4)   The Director may require revisions to a user’ s BMPP if the
Director determines that the plan contains elements that are inadequate, or as
otherwise determined necessary by the Director to ensure compliance with
applicable requirements of this subchapter, the Act or state law. Review of a
BMPP by the Director shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify its facility as necessary to comply with this subchapter, the Act or
state law.
      (5)   The user reports to the Director must include best management
practices compliance information. The user reports must be certified and signed
by the user’s authorized representative.
      (6)   The user shall retain all documentation associated with best
management practices for a period of at least three years from the date of an
activity associated with the practices. This period may be extended by the
Ypsilanti Community Utilities Authority at any time.
(Prior Code, § X-3.81)
§ 54.076  SAMPLING, MEASUREMENTS, TEST AND ANALYSES.
   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 (March 26, 2007). Where 40 C.F.R. part 136
(1992) does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the E.P.A. determines that the part 136 (March 26, 2007)
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by YCUA or other parties, approved by the E.P.A.
(Prior Code, § X-3.82)
§ 54.077  SURCHARGE FOR DISCHARGES OF UNUSUAL STRENGTH.
   (A)   If the character of the wastewater from any manufacturing or
industrial plant or any other building or premises exceeds the limits for
compatible pollutants established in §
54.075 or shall be such as to impose any unreasonable burden upon the sewers of
the system or upon the sewage works or POTW in excess of a maximum limit
prescribed in this subchapter, then an additional charge shall be made over and
above the regular rates, or the Director shall require that the sewage be
treated by the person, firm or corporation responsible for the sewage being
emptied into the sewer or the right to empty the sewage shall be denied, if
necessary, to protect the system or any part thereof. Surcharges required shall
be computed as the weight of excess compatible pollutant in pounds multiplied
by the cost per pound specified in the applicable township rate ordinance. The
strength of the wastes shall be determined by composite samples taken over a
sufficient period of time to insure a representative sample. The cost of
sampling and testing shall be borne by the industry or establishment, whether
owner or lessee. Tests shall be made by the user, at an independent laboratory,
or at the YCUA wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   Any wastewater discharged into the sewer system having a compatible
pollutant in excess of those prescribed in §
54.075 may be permitted by the Director provided payment by the industrial
concern for the full cost of treating such excess constituents in the
wastewater is made and acceptance of the waste does not cause violation of
E.P.A. guidelines, NPDES requirements, the Act or State Act.
(Prior Code, § X-3.83)
§ 54.078  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   With respect to compatible pollutants only, no statement contained in this
subchapter shall be construed as preventing any agreement between the Director
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted, subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern, provided the agreement shall not violate E.P.A. guidelines or NPDES
requirements and provided user charges and surcharges as provided in this
subchapter are agreed to in the agreement.
(Prior Code, § X-3.84)
§ 54.079  DILUTION OF DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, alternative discharge limits or in any
other pollutant-specific limitation developed by the YCUA or the state.
(Prior Code, § X-3.85)
§ 54.080  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Where required, a user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
subchapter, the Act or State Act. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or user’s
own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the Director for
review, and shall be approved by the Director before construction of the
facility. All required users shall complete a program within 90 days of
notification by the Director. If required by the Director a user who commences
contribution to the sewage works after the effective date of the ordinance from
which this subchapter derives shall not be permitted to introduce pollutants
into the system until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the
Director. Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user’s
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter, the Act or
State Act. In the case of any discharge, whether accidental or not, that could
cause problems to the YCUA, the WWTP or POTW, including any slug loadings by
the user, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the YCUA of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Within five days following any discharge, whether accidental or not,
that could cause problems to the YCUA, the WWTP or POTW, including any slug
loadings by the user, the user shall submit to the Director a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrences. The notification shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the sewage works or POTW, fish kills or any
other damage to person or property; nor shall the notification relieve the user
of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this
subchapter, the Act or State Act, or other applicable law. Failure to file a
report shall be a separate violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Slug control plan.
      (1)   Each significant industrial user shall prepare and implement an
individualized slug control plan when in the opinion of the Director a slug
control is required. Existing significant industrial users that do not have a
YCUA approved slug control plan shall provide an approvable slug control plan
to the Director within 90 days of being notified by YCUA that a slug control
plan is required. New sources that are significant industrial users shall
submit a slug control plan to the Director for approval before beginning to
discharge. Upon written notice from the Director, users that are not
significant industrial users may also be required to prepare and implement a
slug control plan, and the plan shall be submitted to the Director for approval
as specified in the notice. Slug control requirements must be included in the
SIU control mechanism (industrial user’s permit).
      (2)   All slug control plans shall contain at least the following
elements:
         (a)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges;
         (b)   A description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   The procedures for immediately notifying the Director of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate any discharge
prohibition, limitation or requirement under this subchapter, and procedures
for follow-up written notification within five days of the discharge; and
         (d)   The procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
      (3)   If a user has submitted to the Director plans or documents pursuant
to other requirements of local, state or federal laws and regulations which
meet all applicable requirements of the subchapter, the Director may in its
discretion determine that the user has satisfied the slug plan submission
requirements of this section.
      (4)   Significant industrial users must immediately notify the Director
of any changes at their facilities affecting their slug control plan or spill/
slug potential.
   (D)   Secondary containment requirements.
      (1)   When in the opinion of the Director secondary containment is
required, the user shall provide and maintain at the user’s sole expense
secondary spill containment structures (including diking, curbing or other
appropriate structures) adequate to protect all floor drains from accidental
spills and discharges to the POTW of any pollutants or discharges regulated by
this subchapter, the Act or state law.
         (a)   The containment area shall be constructed so that no liquid
polluting material can escape from the area by gravity through the building
sewers, drains or otherwise directly or indirectly
into the POTW.
         (b)   The containment or curbing shall be sufficient to hold not less
than 10% of the total volume of the tanks or containers within the secondary
containment structure or provide a capacity of 100% of the largest single tank
or container within the secondary containment structure, whichever is larger,
unless a lesser containment area or alternate control measures are approved in
advance by the Director.
         (c)   The containment structure must accommodate “squirt distance”.
Containers within the containment structure must be able to be placed
sufficiently back from the edge of the structure so if punctured, the resulting
leak will be contained.
         (d)   The containment structure must be designed or operated to
prevent run-on or infiltration, rain or other liquids into the secondary
containment system unless the containment system has sufficient excess capacity
to contain run-on, infiltration, rain or other liquids. Excess capacity when
the prevention is not provided in the system must be sufficient to contain rain
precipitation from a 25-year, 24-hour rainfall event.
         (e)   The containment structure shall be constructed with chemical-
resistant water stops in place at all joints (if any) to be free of cracks or
gaps.
         (f)   The containment structure shall be designed and installed to
completely surround the tank or containers and to cover all surrounding earth
likely to come into contact with the waste if released from the tank(s) or
containers (such as, capable of preventing lateral as well as vertical
migration of the material).
         (g)   All floor drains found within the containment area must be
plugged and sealed.
      (2)   Spill troughs and sumps within process areas must discharge to
appropriate pretreatment
tanks.
      (3)   Emergency containment shall also be provided for storage tanks that
may be serviced by commercial haulers and for chemical storage areas.
      (4)   Solid pollutants shall be located in security areas designed to
prevent the loss of the materials to the POTW.
      (5)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide the protection required by this subchapter shall be submitted to the
Director for review, and shall be approved by the Director before construction.
Construction of approved containment for existing sources shall be completed
within the time period specified by the Director.
      (6)   No new source shall be permitted to discharge to the POTW until
emergency containment facilities have been approved and constructed as required
by this subchapter.
      (7)   The Director may order a user to take interim measures for
emergency containment as determined necessary by the Director under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § X-3.86)
§ 54.081  DETERMINATION OF SEWAGE FLOW.
   To determine the sewage flow from any establishment, the YCUA may use one of
the following methods:
   (A)   The amount of water supplied to the premises by the public water
system as shown upon the water meter if the premises are metered;
   (B)   If the premises are supplied with river water or water from private
wells, the amount of water supplied from the sources may be metered at the
source or metered at its point of discharge prior to entry into the public
sewer;
   (C)   If the premises are used for an industrial or commercial purpose of a
nature that the water supplied to the premises cannot be entirely discharged
into the sewer system, the estimate of the amount of sewage discharged into the
sewer system made by the utilities authority from the water, gas or electric
supply, or metered at its point of discharge prior to entry into the public
sewer;
   (D)   The volume of sewage discharged into the sewer system as determined by
measurements and samples taken at a manhole installed by the owner of the
property served by the sewer system at his or her own expense in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the permit issued by the YCUA pursuant to this
subchapter; and
   (E)   A figure determined by the YCUA by any combination of the foregoing or
by any other equitable method.
(Prior Code, § X-3.87)
§ 54.082  DISPOSAL AT SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   Waste from industrial sewage disposal systems shall be disposed of at the
sewage treatment plant or at any other refuse or disposal site approved by the
Director. No waters or wastes described in §
54.073 shall be disposed of at the sewage treatment plant.
(Prior Code, § X-3.88)
§ 54.083  BYPASS.
   (A)   An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it is for
essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation. If an industrial user
knows in advance of the need for bypass, it shall submit prior notice to the
Director, if possible at least ten days before the date of the bypass. An
industrial user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the Director within 24 hours from
the time the industrial user becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the industrial user becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
   (B)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Director may take enforcement action
against an industrial user for bypass, unless:
      (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury or
severe property damage;
      (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use
of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
      (3)   The industrial user submitted notice as required under this
section. The Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the Director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in this division (B).
(Prior Code, § X-3.89)
§ 54.084  REPORT OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If the results of any sampling performed by the user indicates that
any violation of this subchapter, a permit, an order issued under this
subchapter, the Act or State Act has occurred, the user shall notify the YCUA
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation and shall repeat the
sampling and pollutant analysis and shall submit, in writing, the results of
this repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. A
written follow up report shall be filed by the user with the YCUA within five
days of a user becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   The report shall specify the following:
      (1)   A description of the violation, the cause thereof and the
violation’s impact on the user’s compliance status;
      (2)   Duration of the violation, including exact dates and times of the
violation, and if not corrected, the anticipated time the violation is expected
to continue; and
      (3)   All steps taken or intended to be taken to reduce, eliminate and
prevent reoccurrence of a violation.
(Prior Code, § X-3.90)
§ 54.085  NOTIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES UPON DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   All industrial users shall notify the YCUA, the E.P.A. regional waste
management division Director and the DNRE in writing of any discharge to the
YCUA of a substance that would be a regulated hazardous waste under any federal
statute if disposed of otherwise. The notice shall be given in accordance with
C.F.R. § 403.12(p).
(Prior Code, § X-3.91)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 54.100  AUTHORIZED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the building
sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § X-3.92)
§ 54.101  PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the plumbing inspector. The
application for a permit shall be made on a form furnished by the township or
YCUA and shall include specifications and other information deemed necessary by
the township and YCUA. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the
Township Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § X-3.93)
§ 54.102  INSPECTION BY TOWNSHIP AND YCUA.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the township and
YCUA. The township and YCUA shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the township and YCUA when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48
hours of the receipt of notice by the township or YCUA.
(Prior Code, § X-3.94)
§ 54.103  SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the County Health Department.
No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any public sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § X-3.95)
§ 54.104  CONNECTION WITH PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer in compliance with this subchapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with
suitable material.
(Prior Code, § X-3.96)
§ 54.105  SANITARY MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the township or the YCUA.
(Prior Code, § X-3.97)
§ 54.106  OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State or County
Health Department or DNRE.
(Prior Code, § X-3.98)
§ 54.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, a
permit, an order issued under this chapter, the Act or State Act, shall become
liable to the township for and may be subject to a civil fine assessment of
$1,000 per violation, per day, plus any costs, damages and expenses, direct or
indirect, incurred by the township or YCUA in connection with the violation.
         (b)   Each day on which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate and distinct violation.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter that is
listed below shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction is subject
to a fine of not more than $500, exclusive of any civil fine assessment or
other costs, damages and expenses, or by imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both.
         (b)   Misdemeanor violations include:
            1.   Intentional unpermitted discharge;
            2.   Falsification of a monitoring report or the making of any
false statement, representation or certification in any application, record,
report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this subchapter;
            3.   Improper sampling, with evidence of an intent to falsify or
mislead;
            4.   Intentional failure to install monitoring equipment after a
deadline established by an order issued under this subchapter or the tampering
with or knowingly rendering inaccurate any monitoring device or equipment or
method required under this subchapter;
            5.   Intentional recurring violation of a compliance schedule in a
permit or a violation of a compliance schedule in an order issued under this
subchapter; or
            6.   Illegal discharge when the discharge causes harm and there is
evidence of intent.
(Prior Code, § X-3.61)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC CODE
Section
   
70.01   Adoption by reference of the Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan Cities,
Townships and Villages
   
70.02   Adoption by reference of provisions of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code
   
70.03   Adoption by reference of provisions of the Michigan Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection Act
   
70.04   Adoption by reference of Motor Carrier Safety Act
   
70.05   Adoption by reference of Motor Carrier Fuel Tax and Permit Trip Act
   
70.06   Citations
   
70.07   Recreational vehicle parking
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq.
   Motor Carrier Fuel Tax and Permit Trip Act, Public Act 119 of 1980, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 270.211 through 270.227
   Motor Carrier Safety Act, see Public Act 181 of 1963, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 480.11 through 480.22
   Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994,
as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.
   Penalties, see Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101
et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 42.1 et seq.
§ 70.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF THE UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR MICHIGAN CITIES,
TOWNSHIPS AND VILLAGES.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan Cities, Townships and Villages as
promulgated by the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police pursuant
to the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq. and made effective October 30, 2002,
is hereby adopted by reference. All references in said Uniform Traffic Code to
a GOVERNMENTAL UNIT shall mean the Charter Township of Plymouth.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.00)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF PROVISIONS OF THE MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE
CODE.
   The following provisions of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, Public Act 300
of 1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq. are hereby adopted by
reference:
   (A)   Chapter I (Words and Phrases Defined): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through
257.82;
   (B)   Chapter II (Administration, Registration): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.223,
257.225, 257.226b, 257.228, 257.243, 257.244, 257.252a through 257.252g,
257.255 and 257.256;
   (C)   Chapter III (Operator’s and Chauffeur’s License): M.C.L.A. §§
257.310e, 257.311, 257.312, 257.312a, 257.312e, 257.315, 257.319d, 257.324,
257.325, 257.326 and 257.328;
   (D)   Chapter VI (Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws): M.C.L.A. §§
257.601 through 257.601b, 257.602 through 257.606, 257.610, 257.611 through
257.616a, 257.617a through 257.622, 257.624a and 257.624b, 257.625 (except
felony provisions), 257.625a, 257.625c, 257.625m, 257.626 through 257.626b,
257.627 through 257.675a, 257.628, 257.629b, 257.631 and 257.632, 257.634
through 257.645, 257.647 through 257.655, 257.656, 257.656 through 257.662,
257.667 through 257.675d, 257.676 through 257.682b, 257.683 through 257.710e,
257.716 through 257.724, 257.726, 257.726a and 257.726b; and
   (E)   Chapter VII (License Offenses): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.904 through 257.904a,
257.904e and 257.905.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.01)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF PROVISIONS OF THE MICHIGAN NATURAL RESOURCES
AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT.
   The following provisions of the State Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.81101
through 324.81147 and 324.821101 through 324.82158 are hereby adopted by
reference:
   (A)   Chapter VIII (Snowmobiles and Off-Road Vehicles), Subchapter 6 of Part
811 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451
of 1994, as amended, pertaining to off-road vehicles, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.81101 through 324.81147; and
   (B)   Part 821 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, pertaining to snowmobiles, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 324.821101 through 324.82158.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.02)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT.
   The Motor Carrier Safety Act, Public Act 181 of 1963, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 480.11 through 480.22, is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.03)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF MOTOR CARRIER FUEL TAX AND PERMIT TRIP ACT.
   The Motor Carrier Fuel Tax and Permit Trip Act, Public Act 119 of 1980, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 270.211 through 270.227, is hereby adopted by
reference.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.04)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06  CITATIONS.
   The Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated section number shall be used as the
section number for purposes of issuing a citation for violation of the State
Act sections adopted hereby by reference.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.05)
§ 70.07  RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle parking prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall park any recreational vehicle on any public street,
highway, alley or other public right-of-way within the township for any purpose
or length of time except that a recreational vehicle may be parked on a public
street or highway for the sole purpose of loading or unloading such vehicle for
a period not to exceed 24 hours, provided that the parked recreational vehicle
does not impede traffic or prospective traffic on such public street or
highway.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall include
any of the following:
         (a)   Boats and boat trailers, which shall include floats and rafts,
plus the normal equipment used to transport the same on the highway;
         (b)   Folding tent trailer, which is defined as a folding structure
mounted on wheels and designed for travel and vacation use;
         (c)   Motorhome, which is defined as a portable dwelling designed and
constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle;
         (d)   Pick-up camper, which is defined as a structure primarily to be
mounted on a pick-up or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render
it suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses;
         (e)   Travel trailer, which is a vehicular, portable structure built
on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational and vacation uses, and either licensed as a trailer or permanently
identified travel trailer by the manufacturer, or a movable or portable
dwelling, constructed to be towed on its own chassis and connected to utilities
and designed without a permanent foundation for year-round living;
         (f)   Utility trailer, which is a vehicle licensed as a trailer used
to transport motorcycles, snowmobiles, go-carts, off-road vehicle, stock cars,
or other recreational equipment; or
         (g)   Any other vehicle which is not licensed for road use which is
primarily intended for off-road recreational, outdoor, and/or pleasure
activities.
   (B)   Prima facie responsibility of registered owner. If a recreational
vehicle is parked in violation of division (A), the person in whose name that
recreational vehicle is registered in this state or another state at the time
of the violation is prima facie responsible for that violation.
   (C)   Violation and Penalty. A person who violates this section is
responsible for a civil infraction. A parking violation notice charging a
violation of this section may be issued by a police officer in the form and
manner provided by in M.C.L.A. § 257.742(6), (7) and (8).
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 20a, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. Violation of Public Act 119 of 1980, as
amended, the Motor Carrier Tax and Permit Trip Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 270.211
through 270.227, as adopted by reference, shall be a municipal civil infraction
as provided under Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as
amended.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.06)
   (B)   Motor Vehicle Code. Unless otherwise provided, misdemeanor and civil
infraction penalties for violation of the adopted by reference of Public Act
300 of 1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923 shall be as
provided in Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.07)
   (C)   General penalty. Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation,
partnership or any other legal entity who violates the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
However, if a section of this code substantially corresponds to a state law
that is a misdemeanor for which the maximum period of imprisonment is 93 days,
a person convicted of such section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, imprisonment for a period of not more than 93 days, or both. In addition,
a person convicted of a violation of this code shall be liable for costs.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.08)
   (D)   M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(c) violations. As allowed by Public Act 8 of
2012, for a violation of M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(c), herein the punishment shall
be one or more of the following:
      (1)   Community service of not more than 360 hours;
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days; and/or
      (3)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Prior Code, § VIII-1.09)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ALARM USER
      
92.   NOISE CONTROL
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   GRASS HEIGHT; WEEDS
      
96.   LITTERING
      
97.   SIDEWALKS
      
98.   TREE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
Licensing of Dogs
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   License required
   
90.04   Application requirements
   
90.05   Term of license
   
90.06   Fees; exemptions
   
90.07   Application after June 1
   
90.08   Issuance of dog license
   
90.09   Lost tags
   
90.10   Kennel license required
   
90.11   Application for kennel license
   
90.12   Fees for kennel license
   
90.13   Issuance of kennel license
   
90.14   Maintenance required for a kennel
   
90.15   Offenses by dogs
   
90.16   Yard cleanliness
   
90.17   Confinement of dogs
   
90.18   Rabies prevention
   
90.19   Dog pound
   
90.20   Impounding of dogs
   
90.21   Release of dogs
   
90.22   Disposition of seized dogs
   
90.23   Quarantine
Nuisance Animals
   
90.35   Purpose
   
90.36   Definitions
   
90.37   Prohibition
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 339 of 1919, being M.C.L.A. §§ 287.261 et
seq., and Public Act       359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et seq.
LICENSING OF DOGS
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public health, safety,
comfort and general welfare of the community through the proper control of dogs
by their owners and others.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.00)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUDIBLY IMPAIRED. Audibly impaired as defined in § 1 of Public Act 82 of
1981, being M.C.L.A. § 752.61.
   BLIND PERSON. A blind person as defined in § 1 of Public Act 260 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. § 393.351.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that bites or attacks a person or other domestic animal
without being provoked;
      (2)   Any dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans or
other domestic animals;
      (3)   Any dog deemed a dangerous dog by a court of law; and
      (4)   Exceptions: a dangerous dog does not include any of the following:
         (a)   A dog that bites or attacks a person who is trespassing on the
property of the dog’s owner;
         (b)   A dog that bites or attacks a person who provokes or torments
the dog;
         (c)   A dog that is responding in a manner that an ordinary and
reasonable person would conclude was designed to protect a person engaged in a
lawful activity or is the subject of an assault; and
         (d)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the
law enforcement officer’s official duties.
   DEAF PERSON. A deaf person as defined in § 1 of Public Act 82 of 1981, being
M.C.L.A. § 752.61.
   DOG. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris.
   KENNEL. A place where more than three dogs are kept.
   OWNER. Any person or other legal entity having a right of property in a dog
or who harbors, cares for, exercises control over, or knowingly permits any dog
to remain on premises occupied by the person or entity.
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES. A person who is audibly impaired, blind, deaf or
otherwise physically limited.
   PHYSICALLY LIMITED. As defined in § 1 of Public Act 1 of 1966, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1351.
   PROVOKE. To perform a willful act or omission that any ordinary or
reasonable person would conclude is likely to precipitate the bite or attack by
an ordinary animal.
   REASONABLE CONTROL. Keeping a dog on a suitable leash or under the oral
control of the owner or custodian or some other person with the permission of
the owner or custodian, in all cases other than while upon private property.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Permitting any dog to leave the premises of its owner
without being on a leash and under the control of a person physically able to
control the dog or any dog on private property not enclosed, restrained or kept
in such a manner to prevent the dog from entering a street, public place, or
premises of another.
   SERIOUS INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
lacerations that require sutures, cosmetic surgery or other serious medical
care and treatment.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.01)
§ 90.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor any dog six
months old or over in the township unless the dog is licensed as provided in
this subchapter or to own, harbor or possess any dog six months old or over
that does not at all times wear a collar or harness with a tag approved by the
township. On or before May 31 of each year, the owner of any dog six months old
or older, except as provided in §
90.07, shall apply to the township for a license for each dog owned or kept by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.02)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications for dog licenses shall contain and/or provide the following
information:
   (A)   The breed, sex and color of the dog;
   (B)   The full name, address and telephone number of the owner; and
   (C)   A proof of vaccination of the dog for rabies by a valid certificate of
vaccination for rabies signed by an accredited veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.03)
§ 90.05  TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the terms of this subchapter shall be valid and
operative for a term beginning January 1 in the calendar year for which the
license is issued and terminating December 31 of such year.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.04)
§ 90.06  FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The license fee for all dogs in accordance with this subchapter shall
be established by resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   A dog is not subject to any fee for licensing if any of the following
apply.
      (1)   The dog is a guide or leader dog for a blind person, a hearing dog
for a deaf or audibly impaired person, or a service dog for a physically
limited person.
      (2)   The dog is owned by a partnership, corporation or other legal
entity who trains dogs for use as a guide or leader dog for blind persons,
hearing dogs for the deaf or audibly impaired persons, or service dogs for
physically limited persons.
      (3)   The dog is owned and/or used by a law enforcement officer to carry
out the law enforcement officer’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.05)
§ 90.07  APPLICATION AFTER JUNE 1.
   Any person becoming the owner after June 1 of any year of any dog six months
old or over which has not already been licensed by the township or any person
owning a dog which becomes six months old after June 1 of any year shall apply
for and secure a license for the dog. The license shall be issued without
penalty, providing the application is made within 30 days after the owner has
acquired the dog or after the dog has reached the age of six months.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.06)
§ 90.08  ISSUANCE OF DOG LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of required documentation and fee payment, the dog owner will
be issued a license for the dog for the calendar year and will be given a tag
which will be inscribed with the year, license serial number and the words “Dog
License Plymouth Township, MI”. The tag must be attached to the collar or
harness of the dog at all times and no person shall remove any license tag from
any dog without the consent of the owner or the person to whom the license was
issued. No license or license tag issued for one dog shall be transferable to
another dog.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.07)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  LOST TAGS.
   If the dog license tag is lost, it shall be replaced by the township, upon
application by the owner of the dog, and upon production of the original
licensing receipt. The cost of the replacement shall be established by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.08)
§ 90.10  KENNEL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own or operate any dog kennel in the township without having
first secured a kennel license. For purposes of this subchapter, any person who
keeps more than four dogs which are three months old or over on any one
property in the township shall be deemed to be operating a dog kennel. No
kennel shall be operated or maintained except in a district where permitted by
zoning.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.09)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  APPLICATION FOR KENNEL LICENSE.
   Any person who shall keep or operate a kennel shall, in lieu of the
individual license required under this subchapter, make an application to the
township for a kennel license, entitling the applicant to keep or operate a
kennel. The application shall set forth the name and residence of the applicant
and the number of dogs sought to be kept. The application shall also state the
purpose for which the kennel is to be maintained. Other information may be
requested by the township.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.10)
§ 90.12  FEES FOR KENNEL LICENSE.
   The kennel license applicant shall pay to the township a license fee as set
by Township Board resolution. If the kennel was established prior to March 1 of
the year in which the license is sought, and application is not made prior to
March 1, fees for the kennel license shall be double the amounts set forth. If
the kennel is established after March 1, there shall be no penalty if
application is filed within 30 days after establishment of the kennel.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.11)
§ 90.13  ISSUANCE OF KENNEL LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of required documentation and fee payment, the township shall
issue a kennel license setting forth the maximum number of dogs which may be
kept and at the same time shall issue the applicant a number of suitable tags
equal to the number of dogs authorized by the license. All dogs in the kennel
shall wear a collar or harness with the license tag attached and the tags shall
be used for no dogs other than those in the kennel.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.12)
§ 90.14  MAINTENANCE REQUIRED FOR A KENNEL.
   Any kennel operated or maintained in the township shall be kept in a
sanitary condition at all times and is subject to inspection by any township
authorized representative without notice. It shall be unlawful for any kennel
operated within the township to operate in a way as to cause harm or endanger
any person of the public. Failure to comply shall result in the license for
operation of the kennel to be revoked.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.13)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15  OFFENSES BY DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful within the township to:
   (A)   Harbor or keep any dog, which by loud and/or frequent or habitual
barking, yelping or howling, is a severe nuisance in the neighborhood or to
people passing by on the streets of the township;
   (B)   Harbor or keep any dog which has been deemed to be a dangerous dog as
described in this subchapter, unless the dog is kept in a manner consistent
with the requirements of this subchapter;
   (C)   Permit a dog to run at large as defined in this subchapter; or
   (D)   Harbor or keep any dog that is not licensed pursuant to the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.14)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  YARD CLEANLINESS.
   All persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog shall maintain the premises
on which the dog has access in a sanitary condition that will not create a
health hazard or cause odors that will offend neighbors or persons that may
pass in the street or will attract flies or vermin.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.15)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  CONFINEMENT OF DOGS.
   Every dog shall be confined upon the premises of its owner except when the
dog is leashed or otherwise under the reasonable control of the owner as
designated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.16)
§ 90.18  RABIES PREVENTION.
   Any person who shall have in his or her possession a dog which has
contracted rabies, been exposed to rabies, is suspected of having rabies or
which has bitten any person, shall, upon demand of the Police Department
surrender the dog to the Police Department or Health Department to be held for
observation and treatment as required. It is the duty of every person owning or
harboring a dog which has been attacked or bitten by another dog or animal
showing the symptoms of rabies to immediately notify the Police Department or
Health Department of the incident. Whenever a dog is brought to the pound after
biting a person, the Police Department may, if deemed necessary and advisable,
have the dog destroyed after holding the dog for a sufficient length of time to
meet the requirements of the Health Department for investigation.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.17)
§ 90.19  DOG POUND.
   A dog pound for the township is to be located in suitable quarters in a
place and location selected by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.18)
§ 90.20  IMPOUNDING OF DOGS.
   All dogs found running at large or being kept in any place within the
township, contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, shall be seized by the
township appointed designee(s) and placed in the referenced dog pound.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.19)
§ 90.21  RELEASE OF DOGS.
   An owner or his or her authorized agent may redeem a dog from the dog pound
by executing a sworn statement of ownership, furnishing a license and tag as
required by this subchapter and state law, and paying for any costs incurred by
the township for impoundment as set by resolution of the Township Board. If the
dog is unlicensed, the dog must be properly immunized and licensed, at the
owner’s expense, prior to release of the dog and may be subject to additional
fines. The Police Department shall keep a record of all seizures of dogs and
the collection of fees and other monies and make monthly reports to the
Township Board.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.20)
§ 90.22  DISPOSITION OF SEIZED DOGS.
   When dogs are found running at large, and their ownership is known, an
authorized township representative shall make every reasonable effort to notify
the owner, by mail or otherwise, to inform the owner that the dog is impounded.
If no owner has claimed the dog within five days of the seizure and
impoundment, the animal may be sold or disposed of in the manner provided by
law. Any dog sold at auction must be properly immunized and licensed at the
cost of the purchaser. Dogs impounded that have been exposed to rabies or any
dog that has attacked a person shall be kept until such time and under such
conditions as required by the Police Department or Health Department.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.21)
§ 90.23  QUARANTINE.
   The Township Supervisor is hereby authorized to require that any dog be
quarantined for any defined period when, in his or her opinion, such measures
are necessary to protect the health of the inhabitants of the township.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.22)
NUISANCE ANIMALS
§ 90.35  PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined that the release of non-domesticated nuisance
animals such as rats, raccoons, opossums and the like, into the township by
persons or parties hired to capture and remove the animals from residential
areas, may endanger the public health, safety and welfare if left unregulated.
The purpose of this subchapter is to establish reasonable regulations
controlling the release of nuisance animals to make certain that the public
health, safety and welfare of the community is protected.
(Prior Code, § VII-6.00)
§ 90.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any non-domesticated animal that is commonly regarded as a
nuisance including, but not limited to, raccoons, opossums, skunks, rats, mice,
bats, muskrats and other verminous animals.
(Prior Code, § VII-6.01)
§ 90.37  PROHIBITION.
   No person or entity shall commercially trap and then release or permit to be
released within the township any nuisance animal unless otherwise provided for
in this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § VII-6.02)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any
other legal entity who violates the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § IV-2.22)
   (C)   Any person or persons who violates any provision of §§
90.35 through
90.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days or by a fine of not
more than $500, or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Prior Code, § VII-6.03)
CHAPTER 91:  ALARM USER
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   False alarm fine
   
91.03   Interference with telephone communication systems
   
91.04   Audible or visual signals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq.
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or an assembly of equipment or devices arranged to
signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which police
officers and/or firefighters are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained
within the township except for alarm systems on motor vehicles. If, however, an
alarm system on a motor vehicle is connected with an alarm system at a
premises, the person using the alarm system is an ALARM USER. Also excluded
from this definition and from the coverage of this chapter are persons who use
alarm systems to alert or signal persons within the premises in which the alarm
system is located of an attempted unauthorized intrusion or hold-up attempt. If
the system, however, employs an audible signal emitting sounds or flashing
lights or beacon designed to signal persons outside the premises, the system
shall be within the definition of an alarm system and shall be subjected to
this chapter.
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm condition which is registered at the Police
Department, Fire Department or elsewhere not resulting from the activity for
which the alarm was intended.
(Prior Code, § VII-1.00)
§ 91.02  FALSE ALARM FINE.
   (A)   The alarm user shall be required to pay a fine, as set forth in
division (C) below, for each false alarm in excess of two false alarms
occurring within the calendar year. The calendar year shall be defined as
January 1 to December 31 of any given year. Upon the occasion of the second
false alarm occurring within the calendar year, the alarm user shall be advised
in writing by the Police Department of the township’s recording of the
occurrence of the two false alarms and shall be advised of the existence of
this chapter.
   (B)   Alarm conditions caused by the following extenuating circumstances
shall not constitute a false alarm and no false alarm shall be charged by the
township:
      (1)   Alarm conditions being activated by persons working on the alarm
system with prior notification to the Police or Fire Department of the
township;
      (2)   Alarm conditions being activated by severe weather or other violent
conditions beyond the control of the alarm user; and
      (3)   Alarm conditions activated by disruption or disturbance of
telephone or other communication systems.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any penalties provided for in the event of a
conviction for violation of this chapter, and notwithstanding whether or not a
prosecution has been commenced, any person, corporation, partnership or other
legal entity who uses, leases, installs or directs the installation of an alarm
system described in this chapter shall be subject to fines as set by Township
Board Resolution for the following:
      (1)   First two false alarms requiring response by Police/Fire
Department, occurring within the
calendar year: no fine;
      (2)   Third false alarm requiring response by Police/Fire Department
occurring within the calendar year: to be set by Township Board resolution;
      (3)   Fourth false alarm requiring response by Police/Fire Department
occurring within the calendar year: to be set by Township Board resolution;
      (4)   Fifth false alarm requiring response by Police/Fire Department
occurring within the calendar year: to be set by Township Board resolution.
      (5)   Sixth false alarm requiring response by Police/Fire Department
occurring within the calendar year: to be set by Township Board resolution; and
      (6)   Any false alarm in excess of six occurring within the calendar
year: to be set by Township Board resolution.
(Prior Code, § VII-1.01)
§ 91.03  INTERFERENCE WITH TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS.
   No person shall sell, install, operate, adjust, arrange for or contract to
provide a device or combination of devices that will upon activation, either
mechanically, electronically or by other means, initiate the automatic intra-
state calling, dialing or connection to any telephone number assigned to any
subscriber thereof by a public telephone company for the purposes of delivering
a recorded message without the proper written consent of the subscriber.
(Prior Code, § VII-1.02)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  AUDIBLE OR VISUAL SIGNALS.
   No person shall use, install or direct to be installed any alarm system
which emits a sound and/or visual signal for a period of longer than 15 minutes
from the time of the initial signaling of the device(s).
(Prior Code, § VII-1.03)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or other legal entity who violates the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, at the
discretion of the court. Each day that the violation continues after due notice
has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof shall be
deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § VII-1.04)
CHAPTER 92:  NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Statement of policy
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Prohibition of noise pollution
   
92.05   Specific prohibitions
   
92.06   Maximum permissible sound level along lot boundary lines
   
92.07   Exemptions
   
92.08   Maximum sound levels for motor vehicles
   
92.09   Maximum permissible vibration levels
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq.
§ 92.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter provides for the regulation of the emission and reception of
noise and vibration.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.00)
§ 92.02  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   It is the declared policy of this chapter to promote and assure an
environment free from noise which threatens or affects the physiological and
psychological well being of the people; to protect, promote and preserve the
public health, safety, and welfare by reducing and otherwise regulating noise
levels; to promote the use and enjoyment of property; to protect the value of
property; to protect the enjoyment of sleep and repose; to promote commerce;
and to protect and improve the quality of life.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.01)
§ 92.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of these regulations, and, unless otherwise specified herein, the
acoustical terminology shall be in conformance with the definitions and
provisions contained in the document designated by A.N.S.I. Standard SI.1-1960,
or most recent version.
      A-WEIGHTING. Prescribed frequency response provided in a sound level
meter defined by A.N.S.I. Standard SI.4-1983.
      AMBIENT NOISE. The all encompassing noise associated with given
environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources near and
far.
      A.N.S.I. American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies.
      BOUNDARY. The line of demarcation which separates the real property owned
by one person from that owned by another person.
      CIRCULATION DEVICE. Any device which circulates a gas or fluid including
any air conditioner, fan, blower or pump.
      COMMERCIAL LOT. All property which is used primarily for the sale of
merchandise or goods, or for the performance of a service, or for office or
clerical work.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES. The on-site erection; fabrication; installation;
alteration; demolition or removal of any structure, facility, highway, sewer,
public utility; or all related activities including, but not restricted to,
clearing of land, earth moving, blasting, landscaping and tree trimming.
      CONTINUOUS NOISE. Any noise from a source which is constant, and
unvarying in level, or at least in a range of no more than three dB over the
course of at least 15 minutes.
      FREQUENCY. The repetitive rate at which sound or vibration is occurring;
subjectively, the pitch of an audible tone.
      dB(A). Unit of sound pressure level in decibels obtained by the use of
the A-weighting filter as specified in A.N.S.I. Standard SI.4-1983.
      DECIBEL (dB). Unit of sound pressure level; a logarithmic unit of
amplitude which denotes the ratio of two sound pressures.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within any dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities for living and sleeping.
      EMERGENCY WARNING DEVICE. Any gong, siren, whistle, horn or similar
device that is designed to be used to warn of the exposure of any human being
or property to danger.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following a public calamity or work required to protect persons from
danger to health or safety.
      FAST RESPONSE. The dynamic characteristics of a sound level meter as
defined in A.N.S.I. Standard SI.4-1983.
      FREQUENCY RESPONSE. The output of a system resulting from a stimulus of a
periodic function with varying frequencies.
      GROSS COMBINATION WEIGHT RATING (GCWR). Value specified by the
manufacturer as the loaded weight of a combination vehicle.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR). Value specified by the manufacturer
as the loaded weight of a single vehicle.
      GROUND VIBRATION. Any internally or externally generated vibration from
one property which propagates through the ground and crosses a real property
line.
      HERTZ (Hz). Unit of sound frequency, also known as cycles per second.
      IMPULSIVE NOISE. A noise characterized by brief excursions of less than
one half second, of which the A-weighted sound pressure level exceeds the
ambient noise level by more than five dB(A), when measured by a sound level
meter on fast response.
      IMPULSIVE VIBRATION. Vibration resulting from an impact source,
including, but not limited to, pile driving, stamping presses or blasting.
      INDUSTRIAL LOT. Any property which is used primarily for manufacturing or
processing, or for an airport.
      MICROPHONE LINE. An unmarked reference line running parallel to a motor
vehicle path and passing through the microphone.
      MICROPHONE POINT. An unmarked location in the center of the lane of
travel that is closest to the microphone.
      MIXED LOT. Property on which two or more combinations of residential,
commercial or industrial use occurs.
      MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of riders and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
including motorized bicycles and powered scooters.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway which is self-propelled
except vehicles which move upon or are guided by a track or travel by rail
which are used only for intra-state public transportation.
      MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit.
      NOISE. The intensity, duration, frequency and character of vibration or
sounds from a source or number of sources, including, but not limited to,
sounds and vibrations of subaudible frequencies.
      NOISE LEVEL. For the purposes of this chapter, has the same meaning as
SOUND LEVEL; the two terms may be used interchangeably herein.
      NOISE SOURCE. Any place, facility, product, machine, vehicle, equipment
or appliance, or activity, stationary or mobile, from or by reason of which
there is emitted noise.
      NON-IMPULSIVE NOISE. Any noise that is not characterized by brief
excursions of less than one-half second (such as, impulsive noise).
      OCTAVE BAND. An interval of sound or vibration having a basic frequency
ratio of two. The preferred series of octave bands for acoustic measurements
covers the audible range in ten bands whose center frequencies are 31.5, 63,
125, 250, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 4,000, 8,000 and 16,000 Hz.
      OWNER. A person who alone or jointly or severally with others has title
to real or personal property, either with or without possession, or has charge,
care or control of the real or personal property either as agent or trustee of
the person who has title to the real or personal property or as administrator,
administratrix, executor, executrix, guardian of the estate of the owner of the
real or personal property, or is the lessor, lessee or mortgagee in possession
of the real or personal property.
      PERSON. Any individual, public, or private corporation for profit or non-
profit, association, partnership, firm, trust, estate, city, borough, township,
authority or other legal entity whatsoever which is recognized by law as the
subject of rights and duties.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Every road, way or place of whatever nature open to
the use of the public as a matter of right for purposes of travel.
      PURE TONE. A single adjacent third octave band levels by:
         (a)   Five decibels or more for frequency sound which, when measured
on a third octave or narrowband sound analyzer, is greater than the arithmetic
average of two bands with center frequencies of 500 and above;
         (b)   Eight decibels or more for frequency bands center frequencies of
160 to 400 Hz; and
         (c)   Ten decibels or more for frequency bands with center frequencies
of 25 to 125 Hz.
      REFERENCE NOISE LEVEL. The noise levels identified in Table 1.
      REFUSE VEHICLES. A motor vehicle designed to compact and/or transport
refuse.
      RESIDENTIAL LOT. All property on which people live and sleep, or
parkland, hospitals, schools or nursing homes, or that which is not commercial
or industrial or the individual lots within a mobile home park assigned by the
owner of the park.
      SOUND. An audible oscillation of pressure in air.
      SOUND ANALYZER. A device for measuring sound or vibration as a function
of frequency. Octave and third octave sound analyzers shall conform to Class II
or better as specified in A.N.S.I. Standard SI.11-1983.
      SOUND LEVEL. A frequency weighted sound pressure level obtained by the
use of metering characteristics and the weightings A, B or C, as specified in
A.N.S.I. Standard SI.4-1983.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. Any instrument, including a microphone amplifier, an
output meter and frequency weighting for the measurement of sound levels in a
manner which complies with or exceeds Type 1 (for time varying and impulsive
noise) and Type 2 (for measurement of steady, continuous noises only) standards
established in the A.N.S.I. Standard S1.4-1983.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (SPL). Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of the pressure of sound to the reference pressure. For the purposes
of this standard, the reference pressure shall be 20 Pa.
      STATIONARY MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which has an operable motor
or engine, and is either in driveable or undriveable condition, and is
temporarily or permanently parked or otherwise situated at a fixed position on
either public or private parking areas, grounds or rights-of-way.
      THIRD OCTAVE BAND. An interval of sound or vibration having a basic
frequency ratio of two raised to the one-third power.
      TIME VARYING NOISE. Any noise from a source which varies in level more
than 3dB over an observation period of at least five minutes.
      VIBRATION. A spatial oscillation of displacement, velocity and
acceleration in solid material.
      VIBRATION, EXTERNAL. Vibrations in a building caused by sources located
beyond the boundary line of the property on which the building is located.
      VIBRATION, INTERNAL. Vibrations in a building caused by sources located
either inside the structure or within the boundary line of the property on
which the building is located.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.02)
§ 92.04  PROHIBITION OF NOISE POLLUTION.
   No person shall cause or permit noise or ground vibration to emanate from
real or personal property, or from real or personal property of which he or she
is the owner, that is not in compliance with the rules and regulations of this
chapter. Noise or vibration emitted that is not in compliance with the rules
and regulations of this chapter is declared a public health nuisance and it
shall be unlawful for any person to continue to allow the noise or vibration to
emanate.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.03)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts, and the causing or permitting thereof, are declared to
be in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments and similar devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing, of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument or similar device which
produces or reproduces sound, as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day
in a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a residential or commercial
real property line, or at any time to violate the provisions of §
92.06, except for activities granted a variance by the appropriate authority;
and
      (2)   In a manner as to exceed the levels set forth for public space in §
92.06, measured at a distance of at least 50 feet (15 meters) from the device
which is operating on a public right-of-way or public space.
   (B)   Loudspeakers. Operating for any purpose a loudspeaker, public address
system or similar device, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the
following day so that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a
residential real property line; or at any time violating the provisions of §
92.06, except for any noncommercial activity of public speaking or public
assembly, or other activity for which the appropriate authority has granted a
variance;
   (C)   Street sales. Offering for sale, selling or advertising by shouting or
by playing or otherwise reproducing and/ or amplifying music, sound or other
attention attracting noise within any residential or commercial area or noise-
sensitive zone of the township, except by variance issued by the appropriate
authority;
   (D)   Animals and birds. Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or bird
which frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks,
squeals, roars or makes other sounds creating a noise disturbance across a
residential or commercial real property line or within a noise-sensitive zone;
   (E)   Loading and unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans or
similar objects between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following
day in a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real
property line; or at anytime to violate the provisions of §
92.06;
   (F)   Construction. Operating or causing the operation of any tools or
equipment used in construction, drilling, repair, alteration or demolition work
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, Monday
through Saturday, or at any time on Sundays, or on holidays, so that the sounds
therefrom create a noise disturbance across a residential or commercial real
property line or at any time violates the provisions of §
92.06, except for emergency work of public service utilities or by variance
issued by the appropriate authority. This section shall not apply to the use of
domestic power tools as specified in division (N) below;
   (G)   Vehicle, motorboat or aircraft repairs and testing.
      (1)   Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing any motor vehicle,
motorboat or aircraft in a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a
residential real property line; or to violate the provisions of §
92.06 at any time; and
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to prohibit,
restrict, penalize, enjoin or in any manner regulate the movement of aircraft
which is in all respects conducted in accordance with applicable federal laws
or regulations.
   (H)   Explosives, firearms and similar devices. Using or firing explosives,
firearms or similar devices so that the sound therefrom creates a noise
disturbance across a real property line, or within a noise-sensitive zone,
public space or public right-of-way, without first obtaining a variance issued
by the appropriate authority. A variance need not be obtained for licensed game
hunting activities on property where activities are authorized;
   (I)   Powered-model vehicles. Operating or permitting the operation of
powered-model vehicles:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. or 7:00 a.m. of the following day
so as to create a noise disturbance across a residential or commercial real
property line; or at any time to violate the provisions of §
92.06; and
      (2)   In a manner as to exceed the levels set forth for public space land
use in §
92.06, when measured at a distance not less than 100 feet (30 meters) from any
point on the path of a vehicle operating on public space or public right-of-
way.
   (J)   Stationary non-emergency signaling devices.
      (1)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any mechanically,
pneumatically and/or electronically generated or amplified signal, from any
stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle or similar device, intended primarily
for non-emergency purposes, from any place, for more than ten seconds in any
hourly period;
      (2)   Houses of religious worship shall be exempt from the operation of
this provision; and
      (3)   Sound sources covered by this division (J) and not exempted under
division (J)(2) above shall be exempted only by a variance issued by the
appropriate authority.
   (K)   Emergency signaling devices.
      (1)   The intentional sounding, or permitting the sounding, outdoors of
any fire, burglar or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device except for emergency purposes or for testing, as
provided in division (K)(2) below. However, the following restrictions will
apply:
         (a)   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall not
occur between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and shall use only the time needed to
test the minimum cycle. In no case shall the test time exceed 60 seconds; and
         (b)   1.   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system,
including the functioning of the signaling device, shall not occur more than
once in each calendar month.
            2.   The testing shall not occur before 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00
p.m. The time limit specified in division (K)(1)(a) above shall not apply to
testing of the complete system.
      (2)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or fire
alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm, unless the alarm is automatically
terminated within 15 minutes of activation.
   (L)   Motorboats. Operating or permitting the operation of any motorboat in
any lake, river, stream or other waterway in such manner as to cause a noise
disturbance across a residential or commercial real property line; or at any
time to violate the provisions of §
92.06.
   (M)   Noise-sensitive zones.
      (1)   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within 500 feet of
any noise-sensitive zone, so as to exceed the residential land-use levels set
forth in §
92.06 when measured at a distance of at least 25 feet (seven and one-half
meters) from the sound source, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed
indicating a noise-sensitive zone.
      (2)   Creating or causing the creation of any sound within or adjacent to
any noise-sensitive zone containing a hospital, nursing home, school, court or
other designated area, so as to interfere with the functions of such activity
or annoy the participants in the activity. This is a violation only if
conspicuous signs are displayed indicating a noise-sensitive zone.
   (N)   Domestic power tools.
      (1)   Operating or permitting the operation of any electronically or
mechanically powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn, garden or similar tool,
(excepting the normal operation of snow removal equipment), between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day, so as to create a noise
disturbance across a residential or commercial real property line; and
      (2)   Operating any motor, machinery, or circulation device that is
improperly muffled or in poor working order so as to create a noise
disturbance.
   (O)   Multi-family dwellings. Operating or permitting the operation, within
a multi-family dwelling of any source of sound in a manner as to exceed a room
average sound level of 45 dB(A) from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., or 35 dB(A) from
10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., when measured within an adjacent intra-building
dwelling and when at least five dB above the interior background noise level of
that adjacent unit.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.04)
§ 92.06  MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVEL ALONG LOT BOUNDARY LINES.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall cause or no person who has charge, care or
control of any lot shall permit sound to emanate from a lot which exceeds the
maximum permissible sound level established by this section.
   (B)   Maximum permissible sound levels. The following maximum permissible
sound levels are hereby established:
Table 1
Permissible *(1) Reference Noise Level, dB(A) for Impulsive and Non-
Impulsive Noise as Measured at the Property Line Adjoining:
 Residential*(2) Commercial Industrial
Table 1
Permissible *(1) Reference Noise Level, dB(A) for Impulsive and Non-Impulsive
Noise as Measured at the Property Line Adjoining:
                                        Residential*(2) Commercial Industrial
Daytime*(3) (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.)   55              60         65
Nighttime*(3) (10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) 45              55         65
Notes to table:
*1   The permissible level for a given district or lot depends upon the
receiving land use category, such that if residential adjoins industrial, the
industrial lot is required to meet residential property line noise level
limits
*2   Includes hospitals, schools, nursing homes
*3   Prevailing time
 
      (1)   In all instances in which the lot from which noise emanates does
not directly adjoin a residential, commercial or industrial lot, the
performance standards governing noise shall apply at the nearest residential,
commercial or industrial lot boundary.
      (2)   In order for a person to be in violation of this section, the
source or sources of noise must be identifiable in relation to the ambient
noise and must raise the A-weighted ambient noise level by five decibels or
more in at least one A-weighted frequency band.
      (3)   If a mixed lot exists, the most restrictive lot standard shall be
used when establishing maximum permissible sound levels under this section.
      (4)   For any source of sound which emits a pure tone (or pure tones),
the maximum permissible noise level shall be reduced by ten dB(A).
      (5)   (a)   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. prevailing
time, the maximum permissible noise levels may be temporarily exceeded by ten
dB(A) for noise created by building repair and/or ground maintenance activity.
         (b)   The repairs or activity shall not exceed the maximum permissible
noise levels for a period of more than 14 calendar days, unless the appropriate
authority has granted a variance.
      (6)   The following deviations from the maximum permissible noise levels
are permitted for non-impulsive sounds:
Table 2
Duration of Non-Impulsive Sound Permitted Maximum, A-Weighted Fast Response
                                Noise Above the Permissible Reference Level
Table 2
Duration of Non-Impulsive Sound   Permitted Maximum, A-Weighted Fast Response
                                  Noise Above the Permissible Reference Level
Up to 30 minutes in any hour      0
Up to 15 min. (25%) of any hour   +3 dB
Up to six min. (10%) of any hour  +7 dB
Up to three min. (5%) of any hour +10 dB
Up to one min. and 30 sec. (2.5%) +13 dB of any hour
Up to 36 sec. (1%) of any hour    +17 dB
 
      (7)   (a)   The following deviations from the maximum permissible noise
levels are permitted for impulsive sounds.
         (b)   The reference levels may be exceeded according to the number of
impulse sounds per hour, as follows:
 
Table 3
                                Permitted Maximum, A-Weighted Fast Response
Duration of Non-Impulsive Sound Noise Level Above the Permissible Reference
                                Level
1,024 and greater               0 dB
Or the average repetition rate of periodically repeating impulses, if the
repetition is sporadic, interrupted or otherwise is not continual for at least
one-half hour of observation
 
(Prior Code, § VII-5.05)
§ 92.07  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   The unamplified human voice;
   (B)   Interstate railway locomotives and cars;
   (C)   Nonstationary farming equipment;
   (D)   Aircraft in the process of landing or take-off; and
   (E)   Routine maintenance of public service utilities.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.06)
§ 92.08  MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS FOR MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Motor vehicles and motorcycles on public rights-of-way. No person
shall operate, or cause to be operated, a public or private motor vehicle or
motorcycle on a public or private right-of-way, at any time, in a manner that
the sound level emitted by the motor vehicle or motorcycle exceeds the levels
set forth in Table 4.
Table 4
Sound Limits for Motor Vehicles and Motorcycles (Measured at 50 Feet or 15
Meters)
              Sound Level in dB(A)
Vehicle Class Speed Limit 35 mph of Speed Limit Over 35 mph Stationary Run-Up
              less
Table 4
Sound Limits for Motor Vehicles and Motorcycles (Measured at 50 Feet or 15
Meters)
                    Sound Level in dB(A)
Vehicle Class       Speed Limit 35 mph of Speed Limit Over 35 Stationary Run-Up
                    less                  mph
All motor vehicles
of GVWR or GCWR of  86                    90                  88
10,000 lbs. or more
Any motorcycle      82                    86                  95(*6)
Any other motor
vehicle or any
combination of      76                    82                  95(*7)
vehicles towed by
any motor vehicle
Notes to table:
*6   Measured at 20 inches from vehicle exhaust outlet(s)
*7   Measured at 75 inches from vehicle exhaust outlet(s)
 
   (B)   Adequate mufflers or sound-dissipative devices.
      (1)   No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle
or motorcycle not equipped with muffler or other sound-dissipative device in
good working order and in constant operation.
      (2)   No person shall remove or render inoperative any muffler or sound-
dissipative device on a motor vehicle or motorcycle other than for purposes of
maintenance, repair or replacement.
   (C)   Motor vehicle horns and signaling devices. No person shall sound the
horn or other auditory signaling device on or in any motor vehicle, on any
public or private right-of-way, public or private space, except as an emergency
warning of danger.
   (D)   Vehicles operation in a fast or slow idle.
      (1)   No person shall operate, allow or cause to be operated any
stationary motor vehicle or motorcycle, except refuse collection vehicles in a
fast or slow idle for a period of time in excess of two minutes from any public
or private right-of-way, garage, parking area, lot or property.
      (2)   Stationary motor vehicles or motorcycle operation, which idle or
otherwise operate with vehicle movement for time periods in excess of two
minutes, the total noise level emitted from the stationary motor vehicle or
motorcycle whether from the engine, exhaust, cooling fan, power take-off (PTO)
units, PTO driven or otherwise powered auxiliary equipment including, but not
limited to, refrigeration units, and cargo loading/unloading devices or
mechanisms, shall meet the requirements of Table 1 in §
92.06.
   (F)   Motorized recreational vehicles operating off a public right-of-way.
No person shall operate, or cause to be operated, any recreational motorized
vehicle off a public right-of-way in a manner that the sound levels emitted
therefrom violate the provisions of this chapter. This section shall apply to
all recreational motorized vehicles, whether or not duly licensed and
registered; including, but not limited to, commercial or noncommercial racing
vehicles, motorcycles, go-carts, amphibious craft, campers, and dune buggies,
but not including motor-boats.
   (G)   Emergency exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to:
      (1)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency; or
      (2)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.07)
§ 92.09  MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE VIBRATION LEVELS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall cause or no person who has charge, care or
control of any lot shall permit vibration to emanate from a lot which exceeds
the maximum permissible vibration levels established by this section.
   (B)   Maximum permissible vibration levels. The following maximum vibration
acceleration levels are hereby established.
Table 5
Permissible Vibration Acceleration Levels *1 as Measured at the Property
Line Adjoining
Frequency (Kz) Residential Commercial Industrial
               Day Night
Table 5
Permissible Vibration Acceleration Levels *1 as Measured at the Property
Line Adjoining
Frequency (Kz) Residential Commercial Industrial
               Day  Night
1.0            57.5 54.5   63.5       75.5
2.0            57.5 54.5   63.5       75.5
2.5            58.0 55.0   64.0       76.0
3.15           58.5 55.5   64.5       76.5
4.0            59.0 56.0   65.0       77.0
5.0            59.5 56.5   65.5       77.5
6.3            60.0 57.0   66.0       78.0
8.0            60.5 57.5   66.5       78.5
10             62.5 59.5   68.5       80.5
12.5           64.5 61.5   70.5       82.5
16             66.5 63.5   72.5       84.5
20             68.5 65.5   74.5       86.5
25             70.5 67.5   76.5       88.5
31.5           72.5 69.5   78.5       90.5
40             74.5 71.5   80.5       92.5
50             76.5 73.5   82.5       94.5
63             78.5 75.5   84.5       96.5
80             80.5 77.5   86.5       98.5
100            82.5 79.5   88.5       100.5
Notes to table:
*1   In decibels (dB) re: 1 x 10 G acceleration
 
      (1)   In all instances in which the lot from which vibration emanates
does not directly adjoin a residential, commercial or industrial lot the
performance standards governing vibration shall apply at the nearest
residential, commercial or industrial lot boundary.
      (2)   In order for a person to be in violation of this section, the
source or sources of vibration must be identifiable in relation to the ambient
vibration and must exceed the ambient vibration level by five decibels or more
in at least one frequency band.
      (3)   If a mixed lot exists, the most restrictive lot standard shall be
used when establishing maximum permissible vibration levels under this section.
      (4)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. prevailing time, the
maximum permissible vibration levels provided above at residential boundaries
shall be reduced by three decibels in each frequency band.
      (5)   The maximum permissible vibration levels shall apply to any type of
impulsive or non-impulsive, continuous or intermittent source of ground
vibration.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.09)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any other
legal entity who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than
90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § VII-5.10)
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Destruction of property
   
93.02   Prohibited use of parks, playgrounds
   
93.03   Animals and motor vehicles
   
93.04   Park rules
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It is hereby unlawful to destroy, damage or remove any tree, shrub,
wildflower or other vegetation or to destroy, damage, deface or remove any
publicly owned property in any public park or recreation area.
(Prior Code, §§ VII-7.00, II-16.00)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 18, effective 6-23-
2016)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  PROHIBITED USE OF PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy, frequent, loiter or be
in any public park in the township between dusk and dawn (as defined by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the United States Department
of Commerce for Detroit, Michigan) unless posted otherwise on the township web
site, unless otherwise provided by order of the Supervisor, or unless a special
permit for the use or occupancy has been previously given by the Supervisor or
unless the person is employed by the township. The application for the special
permit shall be made in writing by any resident of the township, stating his or
her name and address and the group of persons he or she represents who will use
the special permit and the proposed hours of the use. The approval for the
issuance of the special permit rests in the sound discretion of the Supervisor.
In any event, the Supervisor may order any public park closed at any time
whatsoever whenever he or she deems the action is necessary to conserve the
peace, suppress disorder, preserve property or protect the public safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, §§ VII-7.01, II-16.01)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 18, effective 6-23-
2016)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  ANIMALS AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall also be unlawful for persons to have dogs, cats, horses or mini
bikes in any public park in the township. Licensed motorcycles and other
licensed motor-driven vehicles are prohibited upon or across the land used for
other recreational use and are only allowed upon the roadway to get to a given
location or an intended recreation use within the public parks. Posted speed
limits within the public parks must be adhered to or violations will be
imposed.
(Prior Code, §§ VII-7.02, II-16.02)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 18, effective 6-23-
2016)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  PARK RULES.
   The Township Board may adopt park rules, which shall be published on the
township web page at www.plymouthtwp.org.
(Prior Code, §§ VII-7.03, II-16.03)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 18, effective 6-23-
2016)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or other legal entity who shall violate
or fail to comply with any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court. Any
person, corporation, partnership or other legal entity who shall violate or
fail to comply with any park rule (not otherwise punishable hereunder as a
misdemeanor) adopted by the Township Board shall be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction punishable by payment of a fine not to exceed $500 in the
discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, §§ VII-7.04, II-16.04)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 18, effective 6-23-
2016)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Exemptions
   
94.04   Permit or registration required
   
94.05   Discharge or novelties, low-impact fireworks and consumer fireworks
   
94.06   Permit for pyrotechnic displays or other use
   
94.07   Permit for discharge of consumer fireworks
   
94.08   Transportation and storage
   
94.09   Transportation and storage
International Fire Code
   
94.20   Code adopted
   
94.21   Changes in the Code
   
94.22   Notice; opportunity to correct
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq.
FIREWORKS
§ 94.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fireworks
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 256. Public Act 265 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. § 28.451.
   ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. Pyrotechnic devices for professional use that are
similar to consumer fireworks in chemical composition and construction, but are
not intended for consumer use, that meet the weight limits for consumer
fireworks, but are not labeled as such, and that are classified as UN0431 or
UN0432 under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Firework devices that are designed to provide visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and are
listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3 or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not
include low-impact fireworks.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS CERTIFICATE or CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued under
M.C.L.A. § 28.467a of Act 256.
   DEPARTMENT. The Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation, as provided in 27
C.F.R. § 555.11, 49 C.F.R. part 172 and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a flare
gun or a flare designed for the purpose of producing a visible or audible
effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS consist of consumer
fireworks, low impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display fireworks and
special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8 and 3.5.
   NOVELTIES. As defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.2, 3.2.3,
3.2.4 and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls
or individual caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap;
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers and toy
guns in which toy caps as described in division (1) above are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion; and
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding one-eighth inch in
diameter.
   PERSON. An individual, agent, association, charitable organization, company,
limited liability company, corporation, labor organization, legal
representative, partnership, unincorporated association or any other legal or
commercial entity.
   SPECIAL EFFECTS. A combination of chemical elements or chemical compounds
capable of burning independently of the oxygen of the atmosphere and designed
and intended to produce an audible, visual, mechanical or thermal effect as an
integral part of a motion picture, radio, television, theatrical, or opera
production or live entertainment.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A movable structure that is used in the sale, display,
storage, transportation or distribution of consumer fireworks, including, but
not limited to, a tent or a stand.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.00)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 94.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   A permit is not required under this subchapter for the possession, ignition
or discharge of novelties or low-impact fireworks. A permit for the discharge
of consumer fireworks may be required under §
94.07.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.02)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 94.04  PERMIT OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell consumer fireworks in the township without having
obtained a consumer fireworks certificate from the Department as required by,
and complied with all the requirements of Act 256, as amended. The consumer
fireworks certificate shall be prominently displayed at the retail location for
which the certificate was issued.
   (B)   No person shall sell low-impact fireworks without having registered
with the low impact fireworks retail registry maintained by the Department.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.03)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  DISCHARGE OR NOVELTIES, LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS AND CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Except in the case of a consumer permit issued by the township under §
94.07, consumer fireworks shall not be ignited, discharged or used by any
person at any time, except on the following days after 11:00 a.m.:
      (1)   December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1;
      (2)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
      (3)   June 29 to July 4 until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
      (4)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.; and
      (5)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day until 11:45
p.m. on each of those days.
   (B)   When permitted, consumer fireworks and low-impact fireworks shall not
be ignited or discharged on public property, school property, church property
or property of another person without that organization’s or person’s written
permission to use consumer fireworks and low-impact fireworks on the premises.
   (C)   Low-impact fireworks shall not be ignited, discharged or used between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (D)   No fireworks shall be ignited or discharged within 70 feet of any
building, or on any public street.
   (E)   Minors shall be prohibited from possessing, using, igniting or
discharging consumer fireworks.
   (F)   No person shall use consumer fireworks while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor or a controlled substance or both.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.04)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  PERMIT FOR PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS OR OTHER USE.
   (A)   The Township Board, upon application in writing, on forms provided by
the Department may grant a permit for the use of fireworks otherwise prohibited
by §
94.05, within the township, manufactured for outdoor pest control or
agricultural purposes, or for public display by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks or other organizations or groups of individuals
approved by the Township Board, if the applicable provisions of this division
(A) and the Act are complied with. After a permit has been granted, the
possession or transportation of fireworks for the purposes described in the
permit only may be made. A permit granted under this section shall not be
transferable, nor shall a permit be issued to a person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   Before a permit for articles pyrotechnic or display fireworks is
issued, the person making application therefor shall furnish proof of financial
responsibility by a bond or insurance in an amount deemed necessary by the
Township Board, to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal injuries
arising out of an act or omission on the part of the person, or any agent or
employee thereof, in the amount, character and form the Township Board
determines necessary for the protection of the public.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued under this section to a nonresident person
for conduct of articles pyrotechnic or display fireworks until such person has
appointed in writing a resident member of the bar of this state or a resident
agent to be his or her legal representative upon whom all process in an action
or proceeding against him or her may be served.
   (D)   The Township Board shall rule on the competency and qualifications of
operators of articles pyrotechnic or display fireworks as the operator has
furnished in his or her application form, and on the time, place and safety
aspects of the displays, before granting permits.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.05)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 94.07  PERMIT FOR DISCHARGE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Persons wishing to discharge consumer fireworks on a day other than
the day preceding, day of, or day after a national holiday shall do so only
after paying a fee and obtaining a permit from the township.
   (B)   Application for a permit to discharge consumer fireworks under this
section shall be made on forms available from the Township Clerk.
   (C)   Approval of a permit to discharge consumer fireworks shall be subject
to the following minimum conditions:
      (1)   A minimum radial setback of 70 foot per one inch of the largest
aerial device proposed to be discharged from the proposed launch site to the
nearest occupied structure;
      (2)   Satisfactory inspection by the fire prevention division of the
Township Fire Department upon delivery of the consumer fireworks to the
proposed launch site;
      (3)   Written permission of the property owner, if different than the
applicant, shall be provided; and
      (4)   Additional reasonable conditions the fire prevention division deems
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (D)   A permit under this section shall not be issued to a minor.
   (E)   A permit shall not be issued for any public property, including roads,
road rights-of-way or sidewalks.
   (F)   The required inspection shall be requested by the applicant not later
than 24 hours prior to the proposed discharge. For a proposed discharge on a
Saturday or Sunday, the request shall be made not later than 8:30 a.m. of the
Thursday preceding the proposed day of discharge.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.06)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08  TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE.
   Transportation and storage of fireworks through and in the township shall be
in accordance with the requirements set forth in Act 256.
(Prior Code, § VII-10.07)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 9, effective 11-30-2014; Ord.
1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 94.09  TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE.
   No person shall maintain a temporary structure without first having obtained
a permit from the Building Department. The Township Board may by resolution
restrict the number of permits for a temporary structure, and set forth the
terms under which a permit may be granted. This section shall not be construed
to prohibit the temporary storage, transportation or distribution of fireworks
by a consumer fireworks certificate holder at a retail location that is a
permanent building or structure.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
§ 94.20  CODE ADOPTED.
   The 2012 Edition of the International Fire Code with Appendices is adopted
by reference as the Fire Code of the township for regulating the safeguarding
of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage,
handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from
conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and
premises in the township subject to the changes and additions in §
94.21.
(Prior Code, § XII-2.00)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 12, effective 11-30-2014)
§ 94.21  CHANGES IN THE CODE.
   (A)   The following sections and subsections of the 2012 Edition of the
International Fire Code are hereby amended or revised as set forth.
   (B)   Subsequent section numbers used in this subchapter shall refer to the
like numbered sections of the 2012 Edition of the International Fire Code:
101.1. Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the Charter
Township of Plymouth and are hereby referred to as such or as the “Code”.
109.3. Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate used under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days, or both such fine
and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been
served shall be deemed a separate offense.
111.4. Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a
fine of not less than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) or more than Five Hundred
Dollars ($500.00).
(Prior Code, § XII-2.01)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 12, effective 11-30-2014)
§ 94.22  NOTICE; OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT.
   (A)   If a violation of this subchapter is noted, a Code Enforcement Officer
may notify the owner of record and/or the occupant of the property of the
violation.
   (B)   Such notice shall specify the violation and may specify a time within
which corrective action should be completed. This notice may be served
personally or by mail.
   (C)   A notice of violation is not required prior to issuing a uniform law
citation charging the owner/occupant of the property with a violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XII-2.02)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 12, effective 11-30-2014)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with §
94.05(B) shall be responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a civil fine
of $1,000. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any other
provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.09 is responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 24, passed 5-7-2019)
CHAPTER 95:  GRASS HEIGHT; WEEDS
Section
Grass Height Maintenance
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Grass height; definition
   
95.03   Exceptions
   
95.04   Notice; opportunity to correct
Noxious Weeds
   
95.15   Definitions; noxious weeds defined; exclusions
   
95.16   Areas subject to this subchapter
   
95.17   Notice to cut weeds
   
95.18   Noxious weeds prohibited
   
95.19   Duty to remove
   
95.20   Removal by township
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et
seq., Public Act 236       of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., and
Public Act 359 of 1941, being M.C.L.A. §§ 247.61 et seq.
GRASS HEIGHT MAINTENANCE
§ 95.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to maintain property values and the
overall appearance of the community. Landscaped grass areas that are allowed to
go fallow create a nuisance and a blight, attract vermin and insects, generally
diminish property values across the community, and invite criminal activity.
This subchapter is to remedy and prevent that problem, it being the finding of
the Township Board that these issues do concern public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § XI-1.00)
§ 95.02  GRASS HEIGHT; DEFINITION.
   Landscaped grass areas of all properties shall be maintained by the owner
and/or occupant at a maximum height of eight inches or less. LANDSCAPED GRASS
AREAS shall mean areas of land that have been modified or ornamented by
altering the plant cover through seeding or sodding with members of the
Gramineae family of Monocotyledonous Herbatious plants with jointed stems,
slender sheathing leaves, and flowers borne in spikelets or bracts. This
definition includes, but is not limited to, lawns.
(Prior Code, § XI-1.01)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   The following shall be exceptions to the grass height maintenance
requirements of this subchapter:
   (A)   The area in violation is a natural or unlandscaped area;
   (B)   The area in violation is actively used as agricultural land;
   (C)   The area in violation is part of a residential housing plat under
development or land under development for sale by lot for building residential
housing; and
   (D)   The area in violation is a wetland as that term is defined in the
State Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of
1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § XI-1.03)
§ 95.04  NOTICE; OPPORTUNITY TO CORRECT.
   If a violation of this subchapter is noted, a Code Enforcement Officer may
notify the owner of record and/or the occupant of the property of the
violation. The notice shall specify the violation and may specify a time within
which corrective action should be completed. This notice may be served
personally or by mail. A notice of violation is not required prior to issuing a
uniform law citation charging the owner/occupant of the property with a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XI-1.04)
NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 95.15  DEFINITIONS; NOXIOUS WEEDS DEFINED; EXCLUSIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, noxious weeds shall include Canada
thistle, dodders, mustards, wild carrot, bindweeds, perennial sowthistle, hoary
alyssum, ragweed, poison ivy, goldenrod, quack-grass, poison sumac or any other
plants which are recognized as inducing hay fever, rose fever or other
diseases, or as being in any way deleterious to the health or comfort of the
community. This subchapter does not apply to weeds in fields devoted to growing
any small grain crop such as soybeans, wheat, oats, barley or rye.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.00)
§ 95.16  AREAS SUBJECT TO THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply only to lots or parcels of
land within the township which are within or adjacent to residential areas, in
any subdivision where construction has begun on 60% of the lots and in shopping
areas, facilities or other areas where large numbers of persons can be found or
congregate. The weeds shall be cut to a distance of at least ten rods (160
feet) from areas mentioned in this section, or the depth of the lot, whichever
is less. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any area
designated by the Township Board of Trustees as a “natural feature”.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.02)
§ 95.17  NOTICE TO CUT WEEDS.
   It shall be the duty of the township to post notices in not less than three
conspicuous places within the township and on the township website, not less
than ten days prior to the time when the weeds must be cut. The notice shall be
in substantially the following form:
NOTICE TO CUT NOXIOUS WEEDS
To the owner or occupant or any person or persons, firm or corporation having
charge of any land in the Charter Township of Plymouth:
Notice is hereby given that all noxious weeds growing on any land in the
Charter Township of Plymouth, Wayne County, Michigan, must be cut and destroyed
on or before the ___ day of ___________, A.D., ______. And every owner,
occupant or person having charge of any such land must notify the township that
such weeds have been destroyed within three days of such cutting. Any person
failing to comply with this notice on or before the date mentioned shall be
liable to the imposition of the penalties set forth in Ord. 64, of the Charter
Township of Plymouth, Wayne County, Michigan, and shall be liable for all
expenses incurred by the township in destroying said noxious weeds, which
expenses, if unpaid by the owner or to the occupant, shall be spread against
the property on the next county and school tax roll or the next general
township tax roll and/or place a lien upon the property to secure the
collection of such expense. The township may notify by certified mail with
return receipt requested, the owner, agent or occupant, as shown on the current
county and school tax roll, of any lands on which such noxious weeds are found
growing. Such notice shall contain methods of treating and eradicating such
noxious weeds and a summary of the provisions of this section. Failure of the
township to give such notice shall not, however, constitute a defense to any
action to enforce the payment of any penalty provided in this subchapter or any
debt created under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.03)
§ 95.18  NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant or any person in charge of
any lot or parcel of land within the township to permit or allow to grow
thereon any noxious weeds. Presence of the weeds upon any lot or parcel of land
within the township is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and adverse to
public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.04)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19  DUTY TO REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant or person having charge of any
land within the township to cut down or cause to be cut down and destroyed all
noxious weeds as described in §
95.15 prior to May 1, June 1, July 1, August 1 and September 1 in each year
and/or as needed and as often as may be necessary to prevent noxious weeds from
going to seed.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.05)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20  REMOVAL BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   If any owner, agent or occupant shall refuse to destroy noxious weeds
pursuant to this subchapter or cause noxious weeds to be destroyed, it shall be
the duty of the township to enter upon lands and to destroy noxious weeds or
cause the noxious weeds to be destroyed, and entering upon the lands by the
township shall not be deemed as trespassing. Express power to so enter upon the
lands and destroy noxious weeds is hereby conferred upon the township. If the
owner, agent or occupant has failed after ten days’ notice as provided in this
subchapter, to destroy the weeds or cause the weeds to be destroyed, then the
township or any other officer or agent authorized by the township may enter
upon the lands or lots and destroy by cutting with or without mechanical
equipment which will not damage the property or the sidewalk adjacent thereto
any noxious weeds and all expenses incurred in the lands shall be paid by the
owner of the lands. If any owner billed for such services by mail has not paid
for the services after 30 days from billing, the township shall have the right
to spread the expense against the property of such owner on the county and
school tax roll of the general township tax roll and/or place a lien upon the
property to secure the collection of the expense.
   (B)   The Township Treasurer shall, subject to the approval of the Township
Board, set up billing procedures as may be required to accomplish the purpose
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.06)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the township to prosecute or to complain
to the proper authorities of any person who may violate any of the terms of §§
95.15 through
95.20.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
95.15 through
95.20 or any of the regulations adopted in pursuance thereof shall be guilty of
a municipal civil infraction and may be fined and assessed costs and otherwise
penalized as provided in Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.8701 et seq., but a minimum fine shall be imposed as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $100; and
         (b)   Second offense and subsequent offenses: $200.
(Prior Code, § XI-4.01)
CHAPTER 96:  LITTERING
Section
Littering Generally
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Litter; prohibition; construction of terms; removal of debris from
highways
   
96.03   Litter; causing to fall on or throwing into path of vehicle prohibited
   
96.04   Litter in public places
   
96.05   Placement of litter receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
96.06   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
96.07   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
96.08   Truck loads causing litter
   
96.09   Litter in parks
   
96.10   Litter in lakes and fountains
   
96.11   Throwing or distributing commercial handbills in public places
   
96.12   Depositing commercial and non-commercial handbills on uninhabited or
vacant premises
   
96.13   Prohibiting distribution of handbills where properly posted
   
96.14   Distributing commercial and non-commercial handbills at inhabited
private properties
   
96.15   Exemptions
   
96.16   Dropping litter from aircraft
   
96.17   Posting notices prohibited
   
96.18   Litter on occupied private property
   
96.19   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
96.20   Litter of vacant lots
   
96.21   Clearing of litter from open private property by township
   
96.22   Presumptions
Littering on Construction Sites
   
96.35   Purpose
   
96.36   Definitions
   
96.37   Unlawful to litter construction site
   
96.38   Unlawful to litter adjacent streets
   
96.39   Removal
   
96.40   Proof and presumption
   
96.41   Disposal of debris
   
96.42   Creation of lien
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et
seq. and Public Act       300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq.
LITTERING GENERALLY
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in
the plural number include the singular. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely discretionary.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall
include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, produce, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this
division (3) shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection
is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or events of any kind when any of the same
is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order, provided that nothing contained in
this division (3) shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking
place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind
without a license, where the license is or may be required by any law of this
state or under any ordinance of this township.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. GARBAGE, REFUSE and RUBBISH as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper or general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States
in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law and, in addition
hereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly
published with not less than four issues per year.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of matter or
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
   OWNER. The person whose name is listed on the current township tax rolls.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the township, owned or used by the township and devoted to
active or passive recreation.
   PARKWAY. The part of the street lying between property lines and that
portion of the street right-of-way ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designed
or used, either wholly or in part, for private residential purposes whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging to or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, body wastes,
garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles
and solid market and industrial waste.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Plymouth, Wayne County, Michigan.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.00)
§ 96.02  LITTER; PROHIBITION; CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS; REMOVAL OF DEBRIS FROM
HIGHWAYS.
   It is unlawful for a person knowingly, without the consent of the public
authority having supervision of public property or the owner of private
property, to dump, deposit, place, throw or leave or cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on public or
private property or water other than property designated and set aside for such
purposes. The phrase PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY OR WATER includes, but is not
limited to: the right-of-way of a road or highway; a body of water or
watercourse or the shore or beach thereof, including the ice above the water; a
park, playground, building, refuge or conservation or recreation area; and
residential or farm properties or timberlands. It is unlawful for a person who
removes a vehicle, wrecked or damaged in an accident on a highway, road or
street, to fail to remove all glass and other injurious substances dropped on
the highway, road or street as a result of the accident.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.01)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03  LITTER; CAUSING TO FALL ON OR THROWING INTO PATH OF VEHICLE
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly cause any litter or any
object to fall or be thrown into the path of or to hit a vehicle traveling upon
a highway.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.02)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04  LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the township except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles for collection or in any licensed dump.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.03)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  PLACEMENT OF LITTER RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.04)
§ 96.06  SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the township the accumulation of litter from any building or lot
or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.05)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07  LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the township or upon
private property.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.06)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08  TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the township
unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents
or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public
place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the
township, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street,
alley or other public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign
matter of any kind. All trucks, trailers or other types of containers hauling
garbage, paper, wood, rubbish, metal and/or any other type of material likely
to blow or fall off onto the roadway or shoulders shall be in a closed
container or covered with a tarpaulin or other device sufficient to contain the
items herein mentioned.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.07)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.09  LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the township
except in public receptacles and in a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.08)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10  LITTER IN LAKES AND FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream
or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the township.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.09)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11  THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the township nor
shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any
public place. However, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a
person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof a
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept
it.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.10)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12  DEPOSITING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR
VACANT PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.11)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13  PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS WHERE PROPERLY POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon not to do so
or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof a sign bearing the words: “no trespassing”, “no peddlers or
agents” or “no advertisement” or any similar notice indicating in any manner
that the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed or to have any handbills left upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.12)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14  DISTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS AT INHABITED
PRIVATE PROPERTIES.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or
transmitting any handbills directly to the owner, occupant or other person then
present in or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case of
inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this
subchapter, such person unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private
premises if such handbill is placed or deposited so as to secure or prevent
such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks,
streets or other public places, except that mailboxes may not be used when
prohibited by federal postal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.13)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be deemed to apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States, to newspapers, to the literature of
civil associations or to the literature of service clubs.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.14)
§ 96.16  DROPPING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the
township any litter, handbill or any other object.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.15)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17  POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device
calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamppost, public
utility pole or tree or upon any public structure or building except as may be
authorized by law or required by law.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.16)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18  LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the township, whether owned by the person or not, except that the owner
or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place or upon any private property.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.17)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19  OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.18)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.20  LITTER OF VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the township, whether owned by such persons or not.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.19)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21  CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The Township Supervisor is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the
township to properly dispose of litter located on the owner’s property which is
dangerous to public health, safety or welfare. The notice shall be deemed to
have been given if placed in an envelope clearly addressed to the owner at his
or her last known address, with postage thereon fully prepaid, and the envelope
is deposited in a United States mail receptacle. A proof of mailing evidencing
compliance with these requirements shall be signed by the person who prepares
and mails the envelope.
   (B)   Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare within five days after receipt of written notice provide for
in division (A) above or within ten days after the date of the notice in the
event the same is returned to the local Post Office Department because of its
inability to make delivery, provided the same was properly addressed to the
last known address of the owner, the Township Supervisor and his or her
authorized representatives are hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the
disposing of the litter or to order its disposal by the township.
   (C)   Reimbursement to township, tax lien. Whenever the Township Supervisor
or his or her authorized representatives shall enter upon any parcel of land in
order to accomplish abatement of an existing violation pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, the Township Supervisor is hereby authorized and
directed to keep an accurate account of all expenses incurred and, based upon
same, issue a certificate determining and certifying the reasonable cost
involved for the work with respect to each parcel of property. The Township
Supervisor is also authorized to add to the costs a 10% administrative charge
to cover the expense of administering the work performed, overhead and other
contingent expenses. Within ten days after receipt of the certificate, the
Township Supervisor shall forward a statement of the total charges assessed on
each parcel of property to the owner as shown by the last current assessment or
tax roll and the assessment shall be payable to the Township Treasurer within
30 days from the date that the statement was forwarded. If not paid within the
prescribed 30-day period, the statement shall be filed with the Township
Assessor and shall thereupon be assessed against the land in question and
become a lien on the property. The amount so charged may be discharged at any
time by the payment of the amount specified in the statement together with
interest at the rate of 6% per annum compiled from the time of filing the
certificate with the Township Assessor.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.20)
§ 96.22  PRESUMPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below involving litter from a
leased vehicle or leased vessel, in a proceeding for a violation of this
subchapter involving litter from a motor vehicle or vessel, proof that the
particular vehicle or vessel described in the citation, complaint or warrant
was used in the violation, together with proof that the defendant named in the
citation, complaint or warrant was the registered owner of the vehicle or
vessel at the time of the violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that
the registered owner of the vehicle or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or
vessel at the time of the violation.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle or vessel is presumed to be responsible for
litter which is thrown, dropped, dumped, deposited, placed or left from the
vehicle or vessel on public or private property or waters defined in §
96.02.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, VEHICLE means every motor vehicle
registered under Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to
257.923, and VESSEL means a vessel registered under Public Act 153 of 1974, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.80124 et seq.
   (D)   In a proceeding for a violation of this subchapter involving litter
from a leased motor vehicle or leased vessel, proof that the particular vehicle
or vessel described in the citation, complaint or warrant was used in the
violation, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint or warrant was the lessee of the vehicle or vessel at the time of the
violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that the lessee of the vehicle
or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or vessel at the time of the violation.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.22)
LITTERING ON CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 96.35  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent, reduce and eliminate the
dumping or depositing of garbage, rubbish, litter, debris or waste material at
construction sites, buildings under construction and areas adjacent thereto and
to prevent, reduce and eliminate the dumping or depositing of the same and
dust, sand and mud on the streets adjacent and/or abutting those locations and
to provide for the removal of the same.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.00)
§ 96.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Any accumulation of broken or detached matter, including, but not
limited to, fragments of stone, brick, cement and plaster.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable matter.
   LITTER. GARBAGE and RUBBISH as defined herein and all other matter which, if
thrown, dumped, placed, left or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create
a danger to public health, safety and/or welfare.
   PERSON. Any natural person or an artificial person, including without
limitation a partnership, co-partnership, a limited partnership, a corporation
or a trust. In the instance of an artificial person, the natural person(s) who
is/are the general partners of a partnership, whether limited or not, the
trustee(s) and any beneficiary having the power to appoint or constitute a
trustee of a trust, the officers and directors of a corporation and the
receiver of any artificial person shall be equally liable with the artificial
person for any requirements or penalties provided in this subchapter. In the
instance of natural and artificial persons, the agent of the same having the
apparent authority to control the construction site or building under
construction of the persons having property regulated by the subchapter shall
be equally liable with his, her or its principal for any requirements or
penalties provided in this subchapter.
   RUBBISH. Any refuse, fragments of building material, including, but not
limited to, pieces of lumber, pipe, brick, wallboard and/or shingles.
   WASTE MATERIAL. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste (except body
waste), including, but not limited to, garbage as defined herein, rubbish as
defined herein, unrooted vegetation and herbage, tree limbs and stumps and/or
any other such matter which, if thrown, dumped, placed, left or deposited as
herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to the public health, safety and/or
welfare.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.01)
§ 96.37  UNLAWFUL TO LITTER CONSTRUCTION SITE.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns or controls a construction site or
building under construction to dump, deposit, place, throw, leave, bury or
cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, leaving or burying
of litter, garbage, rubbish, debris or waste material thereon. At any
construction site, building under construction or area adjacent thereto, the
material shall be placed within the confines of a receptacle especially
provided for the use or shall be confined to one pile so as to prevent the
blowing or scattering of the materials by the elements. The transfer of litter,
garbage, rubbish, debris or waste material from a construction site or building
under construction to another is specifically prohibited.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.02)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.38  UNLAWFUL TO LITTER ADJACENT STREETS.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns or controls a construction site or
building under construction to dump, deposit, place, throw, leave or cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of dust, sand,
mud, dirt, litter, garbage, rubbish, debris or waste material on any street,
road or highway adjacent to and/or abutting the construction site.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.03)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.39  REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns or controls a construction site or
building under construction to fail to remove litter, garbage, rubbish, debris
or waste material at any construction site, building under construction or area
adjacent thereto or to fail to remove dust, and, mud, dirt, litter, garbage,
rubbish, debris or waste material on any street, road or highway adjacent to
and/or abutting the construction site within 48 hours after notice to remove is
sent.
   (A)   The Township Building Official, his or her representative or such
other individual as the Township Board shall designate, is hereby authorized
and empowered to notify the primary contractor or owner of a construction site
or building under construction to remove litter, garbage, rubbish, debris,
waste material, dust, sand, mud or dirt at or adjacent to the premises. The
notice shall be made by first-class mail and addressed to the primary
contractor and/or owner at his or her last known address or by any other means
reasonably calculated to notice to the primary contractor and/or owner.
   (B)   Notice shall be deemed made on the next regular day for delivery of
mail after the day the notice to remove was deposited in the United States mail
with first-class postage prepaid thereon.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.04)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.40  PROOF AND PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   In any proceeding for violation of §§
96.37 through
96.39, proof that a building permit was issued to a person for the subject
construction site or building under construction constitutes in evidence a
presumption that the building permit holder owns or controls that construction
site or building under construction.
   (B)   The owner or primary contractor of the construction site, building
under construction or area adjacent thereto is presumed to be responsible for
litter, garbage, rubbish, debris or waste material which is dumped, deposited,
placed, thrown or left at that construction site, building under construction
or area adjacent thereto.
   (C)   The owner or primary contractor of a construction site, building under
construction or area adjacent thereto is presumed to be responsible for dust,
sand, dirt, mud, litter, garbage, rubbish, debris or waste material which is
dumped, deposited, placed, thrown or left on any street, road or highway
adjacent to and/or abutting that construction site or building under
construction.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.05)
§ 96.41  DISPOSAL OF DEBRIS.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any primary contractor or owner of a
construction site or building under construction, after being notified in
accordance with the provisions of §
96.39, to properly dispose of any litter, garbage, rubbish, debris, waste
material, dust, sand, mud or dirt on any construction site, building under
construction, area adjacent thereto or on any street, road or highway or area
adjacent to and/or abutting the same within five days after receipt of the
written notice, the Township Building Official, his or her representative or
other individual as the Township Board shall designate is hereby authorized and
empowered to pay for the disposing of the matter or to order its disposal by
agents or employees of the township.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.06)
§ 96.42  CREATION OF LIEN.
   Whenever the Building Official, his or her representative or such other
individual as the Township Board shall designate shall enter upon any parcel of
land in order to accomplish abatement of any existing violation of this
subchapter, the Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to keep an
accurate account or all expenses incurred and based upon the same to issue a
certificate determining the reasonable cost involved for the work with respect
to each parcel of property. The Official is further authorized to add to the
costs a 10% administrative charge to cover the expense of administering the
work performed, overhead and other expenses incurred by the township in abating
the violation. Within ten days after issuance of the certificate, the Township
Treasurer shall forward a statement of the total charges assessed on each
parcel of property to the owner as shown by the last current assessment or tax
roll and the assessment shall be payable to the Township Treasurer within 30
days from the date when the statement is forwarded. If not paid within the
prescribed 30-day period, the statement shall be filed with the Township
Assessor and shall thereupon be spread upon the assessment roll in a separate
column for that purpose opposite a description of the land owned by the
property owner who refuses or neglects to pay the amount and the same shall
become a lien upon the property. This amount shall be collected in the same
manner that taxes are collected and may be discharged at any time by the
payment of the amount specified in the statement together with interest at the
rate of 6% per annum compiled from the time of filing the certificate with the
Township Assessor.
(Prior Code, § XI-3.07)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person found guilty of a violation of §§
96.01 through
96.22 shall be penalized as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that a violation is continued or
permitted to exist without compliance shall constitute a separate offense. The
court, in lieu of any other sentence imposed, may direct a substitution of
litter-gathering labor including, but not limited to, the litter connected with
the particular violation, under the supervision of the court.
(Prior Code, § XI-2.21)
CHAPTER 97:  SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks Generally
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Owner’s responsibility for sidewalk repair; conditions
   
97.04   Replacement or repair of sidewalks; finding of necessity; assessment
against owners of property; hearing; notice
   
97.05   Sidewalk construction required; notice; hearing; finding of necessity
   
97.06   Design standards
   
97.07   Administration
Removal of Snow and Ice From Sidewalks
   
97.20   Removal of ice and snow
   
97.21   Definitions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq. and Public Act      80 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.271 et seq.
SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
§ 97.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the construction,
maintenance, inspection, repair and assessment of costs for sidewalks pursuant
to the provisions of Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et seq., as
amended, and Public Act 80 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.271 et seq.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.00)
§ 97.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING or ADJACENT PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land adjoining,
bordering or touching a street as defined herein.
   ADJACENT SIDEWALK. The portion of the sidewalk located within the street
next to an abutting or adjacent property as defined herein.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns, walls,
arches or other devices used for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
   SIDEWALK. Public ways or walkways improved with concrete and designed for
pedestrian travel.
   STREET. A dedicated public right-of-way or prescriptive easement which is a
state, county or municipal roadway affording the principal means of access to
abutting property. A STREET includes the land between the street right-of-way
lines, whether improved or unimproved.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.01)
§ 97.03  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALK REPAIR; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall, in all cases, be the responsibility of the owner of every
lot or parcel of land in the township to keep the sidewalks adjacent to his or
her lot or parcel in good repair. Sidewalk sections (flags) shall be replaced
when the condition of same is detrimental to the safety of the general public.
   (B)   Following are some examples of conditions requiring replacement:
      (1)   A rise or drop of more than one inch between any two sections of
sidewalk at the connection joint;
      (2)   More than two cracks of one-quarter inch in width or more in any
two lineal feet of sidewalk section;
      (3)   Any section of sidewalk which is tilted in excess of one inch per
foot from inside to outside edge. (The outside edge being the edge of the
sidewalk nearest the street line.);
      (4)   If, in any five-foot lineal section of sidewalk, more than 25% of
the surface area has scaled off to a depth of one-quarter inch or greater, that
section of the sidewalk shall be replaced; and
      (5)   The concrete has dipped to allow water to pond to a depth of three-
quarters of an inch or more.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.02)
§ 97.04  REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS; FINDING OF NECESSITY; ASSESSMENT
AGAINST OWNERS OF PROPERTY; HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Township Board may, by resolution, require the owners of lots or
parcels to replace or repair sidewalks where the condition of the sidewalks
necessitates replacement or repair for public health, safety and welfare. Prior
to the adoption of a resolution requiring replacement or repair of sidewalks,
notice shall be given to affected property owners and a hearing shall be
conducted as provided in Public Act 80 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.271 et
seq.
   (B)   At the time of the inspection by the Department of Public Works as
provided in §
97.06, the Department of Public Works shall provide a notice to the homeowners
of the necessity of the replacement or repair and the date of the hearing
before the Township Board. During this time period the homeowner may replace or
repair the sidewalks but the replacement or repair shall be according to the
construction standards established in §
97.06.
   (C)   The resolution by the Township Board finding the necessity of the
replacement or repair shall provide:
      (1)   A description of the flags or portions of sidewalk to be replaced
or repaired;
      (2)   A finding of the necessity of the replacement or repair of the
sidewalk for public safety reasons;
      (3)   An order directing the township to replace or repair the portions
of sidewalk upon the property owner’s failure or neglect to replace or repair
the sidewalk; and
      (4)   An order directing the Treasurer to assess the township’s costs for
replacement or repair of the sidewalk against the property involved, payable
over a five-year period.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be replaced or repaired according to the
construction standards established in §
97.06.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.03)
§ 97.05  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED; NOTICE; HEARING; FINDING OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 80 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.271 et seq.,
the Township Board may, by resolution, require the owners of lots or parcels of
land to construct sidewalks where the presence of sidewalks may be declared by
the Township Board to be necessary to provide safe and convenient routes for
pedestrian traffic. A resolution shall note the time period in which the owners
must construct the required sidewalk.
   (B)   Prior to the adoption of a resolution requiring construction of
sidewalks, notice shall be given to affected property owners and a hearing
shall be conducted as provided Public Act 80 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.271
et seq.
   (C)   The resolution shall provide:
      (1)   A description of the sidewalk to be built;
      (2)   A finding of the necessity of the construction of the sidewalk for
public safety reasons;
      (3)   A time period within which the property owner shall construct the
sidewalk;
      (4)   An order directing the Clerk to give notice to the property owner
(s) by United States mail;
      (5)   An order directing the township to construct the sidewalk upon the
property owner’s failure or neglect to construct the sidewalk within the
applicable time period;
      (6)   An order directing the Treasurer to assess the township’s costs for
construction of the sidewalk against the property involved, payable over a
five-year period; and
      (7)   An order that the time period within which the property owner has
to construct the sidewalk shall be extended for inclement or unseasonable
weather.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be constructed according to the construction
standards established in Section §
97.06.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.04)
§ 97.06  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All sidewalks hereafter constructed, repaired or replaced shall be
constructed, repaired or replaced according to the specifications recommended
by the Township Engineer and approved by the Township Board which shall be
designated as Appendix “A” to the ordinance codified in this subchapter and is
adopted by reference as if set out at length in full herein.
   (B)   In the absence of design standards promulgated by the Township
Engineer and adopted by the Township Board, the then current State Department
of Transportation Sidewalk Design Standards shall apply.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.05)
§ 97.07  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the responsibility of the Township Department
of Public Works, or such person as the Supervisor may designate, to supervise
and control all sidewalks and the construction, repair and maintenance thereof,
including inspection, and to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Inspection(s). The Township Department of Public Works shall inspect
all sidewalks installed or maintained under the terms of this subchapter on a
periodic basis, not less than every five years, and shall inspect areas brought
to the Public Works Department’s attention by a complaint filed therewith.
   (C)   Program established. The Department of Public Works, subject to the
approval of the Board of Trustees, shall establish a low income assistance
program based upon the ability of the property owner to pay the assessment(s)
established by operation of §
97.04.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.06)
REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 97.20  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   No owners, occupants, agents or persons having charge of any house,
premises, building or lot shall permit any snow or ice to remain on the
sidewalks abutting such house, premises, building or lot longer than 24 hours
after any snow or ice has fallen or formed. When either snow or ice has fallen
or formed on any sidewalks, the owner, occupant, agent or person having charge
shall, within 24 hours after the snow or ice has fallen or formed, remove the
snow or ice or cause a sufficient quantity of salt, sand or ashes to be strewn
on the sidewalks in such manner as to render the sidewalks safe for a person
walking thereon.
(Prior Code, § XI-5.00)  Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALKS. Those sidewalks or walks which form a part of a public highway,
boulevard, road or street.
(Prior Code, § XI-5.01)
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
97.01 through
97.07 or fails to comply with its requirements shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all
costs and expenses involved. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The owner of record or tenant of any building, structure, premises
or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer penalties herein provided.
(Prior Code, § XI-6.07)
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
97.20 and
97.21 shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § XI-5.02)
CHAPTER 98:  TREE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Intent
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Non-recommended trees
   
98.04   Tree maintenance and care; public safety standards
   
98.05   Corner clearance
   
98.06   Tree topping
   
98.07   Removal of stumps
   
98.08   Tree Fund
Public and Private Trees
   
98.20   Permitted street trees
   
98.21   Tree size
   
98.22   Removal and replacement of street trees; role of the county
   
98.23   Installation of street trees for new residential construction
Administration and Enforcement
   
98.35   Permits and plans required by developers
   
98.36   Notice
   
98.37   Enforcement
   
98.38   Appeals
   
98.39   Tree Board
§ 98.01  INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection, preservation,
maintenance and safety of the township’s trees where indicated herein, and to
promote tree preservation for new development.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   DEAD TREE. Any tree that has no visible growth (within the appropriate
growing season for all deciduous trees), no visible buds, twigs that do not
exhibit flexibility, and twigs that do not appear green at the cambium layer
when outer bark has been physically removed.
   DEVELOPER. A person who buys and sells buildings (both commercial and/or
residential) and land, with the intention of arranging for new buildings (both
commercial and/or residential) to be built on such land for eventual sale.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any new construction by a developer on a parcel. This may
include expansion of an existing residential or commercial building under the
Township Building Code.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). The diameter, in inches, of a tree measured at
four and one-half feet above the existing grade.
   DRIPLINE. The imaginary vertical line that extends downward from the
outermost tips of tree branches to the ground.
   HERITAGE TREE. Any live tree that is 18 inches DBH or greater, unless
determined by the Township Building Official to be a detrimental, hazardous or
diseased tree, or a tree that is otherwise not permitted tree under §
98.03.
   PARK OR PUBLIC TREE. Any tree located in public parks and on all publicly-
owned land, or to which the public has free access.
   PRIVATE TREE. Any tree located on land, an easement or a right-of-way owned
by an individual or group having a vested or financial interest in the subject
property.
   STREET TREE. Any tree planted or located within a public street, easement or
road right-of-way.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree(s).
   TREE. A woody perennial plant, typically having a single stem or trunk that
at maturity is 13 feet or more in height, and a definite crown of foliage.
   TREE CANOPY. Generally the uppermost parts of a tree, providing shade and
cover below on the land, made up of branches, stems and leaves for a deciduous
tree; and branches, stems and needles for an evergreen tree.
   TREE FUND. The budget account located in the township's General Fund to be
used for activities associated with public tree inventory, protection,
maintenance and planting.
   TREE PROTECTION PLAN. The plan reviewed and approved by the township that
shows how trees will be protected from construction activities.
   TREE REMOVAL PERMIT. The permit application reviewed and approved by the
township that shows the location, species and size of heritage tree(s) that are
intended to be removed by a developer.
   TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN. The permit application reviewed and approved by the
township that shows how the requirement for replacing removed heritage tree(s)
will be satisfied by a developer.
   UNSAFE CONDITION. A tree that, by reason of its nature, is injurious to
sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, is blocking street or sidewalk clearance, or is blocking the
spread of light or view of traffic control devices, or is a dead or diseased
tree as determined by the Building Official or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.03  NON-RECOMMENDED TREES.
   It is recommended that the following trees not be planted or replanted in
the township:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name              Scientific Name
Ash                      Fraxinus species
Autumn and Russian Olive Elaeagnus species
Box Elder                Acer negundo
Black Locust             Robinia pseudoacacia
Buckthorn                Rhamnus species
Chinese Elm              Ulmus parvifolia
Colorado Blue Spruce     Picea pungens
Eastern Cottonwood       Populus deltoides
Mulberry                 Morus species
Poplar                   Populus species
Siberian Elm             Ulmus pumila
Silver Maple             Acer saccharinum
Tree of Heaven           Ailanthus altissima
White Poplar             Populus alba
Willow                   Salix species
 
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.04  TREE MAINTENANCE AND CARE; PUBLIC SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   All trees shall be planted, pruned, maintained and removed, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety. Trees shall be pruned so that branches do
not obstruct the light from any street light or obstruct the view of any street
intersection. A clear space of 15 feet above the surface of the street and
eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk shall be maintained. No trees
shall be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire,
or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line or other utility. No trees shall be planted closer than ten
feet from any manhole structure. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet
from any hydrant. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
streetlight pole. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
traffic control device.
   (B)   The township reserves the right to remove, or cause to be removed, any
tree or part thereof that is in an unsafe condition as defined in §
98.02.
   (C)   If any owner, occupant or person having charge of any land within the
township shall refuse or neglect to resolve public safety issues caused by
private trees or shrubs as provided in division (B), the township will notify,
in writing, the owner(s) of such tree(s). Removal shall be done by the owner(s)
at their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. Upon
the owner’s failure to comply with such provisions, the township shall have the
authority to remove such trees. The Building Official shall keep an accurate
account of the expense incurred for each lot or parcel of land in carrying out
the provisions of this section, which shall be charged against each lot or
parcel, and collected by giving notice thereof to the owner of the lot or
parcel. If the expense or charge is not paid, its cost may be placed on the tax
roll for the lot or parcel and collected as provided by the township Charter.
   (D)   In the event of an immediate threat to public health or safety, the
Building Official shall cause the land to be entered upon by township employees
or a township contractor for the purpose of pruning or removing the trees, tree
debris or shrubs at the sole cost to the property owner. This entry shall not
be deemed a trespass. The cost of this removal may be placed on the tax roll
for the lot or parcel and collected as provided by the township Charter.
   (E)   No person shall break, injure, mutilate, kill or destroy any public
tree or shrub, or set any fire or heat thereof to injure any portion of any
tree or shrub on public property. No toxic chemicals or other injurious
materials shall be allowed to seep, drain or be emptied upon, near or about any
public tree or shrub. No electric wires or installation of any other lines or
wires shall be attached to any public tree in any manner to cause damage. No
person shall use any public tree as an anchor unless approved by the Building
Official, and no sign, poster, notice or other material shall be attached to or
hung on any public tree.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.05  CORNER CLEARANCE.
   No tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner, measured
from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. All shrubs and
bushes located on the triangle formed by two right-of-way lines at the
intersection of two streets, and extending for a distance of 20 feet each way
from the intersection of the right-of-way lines on any corner lot within the
township, shall not be permitted to grow to more than 30 inches in height from
the top of the curb at street level, in order that the view of the driver of a
vehicle approaching a street intersection shall not be obstructed. Trees may be
planted and maintained on private property in this area, provided that all
branches are trimmed to maintain a clear vision for a vertical height of  15
feet above the roadway surface. Any owner of any property failing to trim any
tree, shrubs or bushes in conformity with this section shall be notified by the
Building Official, by mailing the notice by certified mail to the owner at his
or her last known address or, if the owner is unknown, by posting the notice in
some conspicuous place on the premises. The notice shall require trimming in
conformity with this section, within 30 days after the date of the notice. Upon
the expiration of that period, the Building Official may cause the trimming to
be done, and the cost thereof shall be placed on the tax roll for the lot or
parcel and collected as provided by the township Charter.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.06  TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be prohibited for any person to top any tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms, an Act of God, or other causes out of the township's or the
property owner's control, may be exempted from this section at the
determination of the Building Official. This section does not apply to a
utility company who may be required to top a tree for purposes of public safety
or valid equipment issues.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.07  REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground. The stump excavation site shall be backfilled to match the grade.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.08  TREE FUND.
   This section formally establishes the township's Tree Fund. The purpose of
the Tree Fund shall be to maintain and reestablish the township's public and/or
private tree canopy. The Township Board shall review the rate structure as
needed.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE TREES
§ 98.20  PERMITTED STREET TREES.
   Any street tree (also referred to as an easement or right-of-way tree) to be
planted must be approved by the Building or Planning Official, prior to
installation, from a list to be maintained by the Building Department and
updated from time to time.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.21  TREE SIZE.
   The minimum size for a street tree or public park tree shall be one and one-
half inches in caliper DBH. All trees planted must be of the tree form variety,
have a single stem with branching limbs, and branches must be at least eight
feet off the ground at maturity, with the exception of evergreen trees in
public parks.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.22  REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF STREET TREES; ROLE OF THE COUNTY.
   (A)   Should a property owner wish to have the street tree adjacent to his
or her property removed, he or she shall submit a request, in writing, to the
Township Building Department, which shall refer the request to the County
Department of Public Services.
   (B)   A private property owner may replace a street tree on their own, and
at their own expense, with prior written approval by the county and the
Township Building Official, from the township's approved tree list.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.23  INSTALLATION OF STREET TREES FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Residential developers shall install a minimum of one new street tree
at the affected property when a new construction home is built as part of the
site approval process. If the right-of-way adjacent to the residential property
is not suitable for the long-term health requirements of a new street tree, the
developer shall pay into the Tree Fund.
   (B)   To replace a street tree, residential developers must choose one of
the following options:
      (1)   Plant a street tree before final certificate of occupancy is
issued; or
      (2)   Pay into the Tree Fund prior to the issuance of final certificate
of occupancy at a rate approved by the Township Board.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 98.35  PERMITS AND PLANS REQUIRED BY DEVELOPERS.
   (A)   A tree removal permit is required when any heritage tree(s) is(are)
planned for removal by a developer. This may take the form of a blanket permit
covering an overall development site.
      (1)   The Building Official or his or her designee shall perform a site
visit to measure and document the affected heritage tree(s) or if the applicant
submits a certified tree survey.
      (2)   The Building Official or his or her designee shall provide a report
to the applicant, detailing the heritage tree(s) planned for removal.
      (3)   After review, the Building Department shall issue a permit to
applicants that meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Heritage trees shall be replaced for each heritage tree diameter inch
removed. Replacement tree(s) shall be located on the parcel(s) where each
heritage tree is removed, in the right-of-way adjacent to the affected
property, or by mutual agreement of the township and developer.
   (C)   If replacement trees cannot be reasonably planted on the property or
elsewhere, the developer shall pay into the Tree Fund pursuant to a fee
schedule set by the Township Board.
   (D)   If the requirements of divisions (B) and (C) cannot be met, a
combination of paying into the Tree Fund and replacement trees shall be used.
   (E)   The minimum size for a replacement tree shall be one and one-half
inches in caliper DBH. All trees planted must be of the tree form variety from
the permitted street tree list as provided by the Building Department.
   (F)   A tree replacement plan is required after tree(s) have been removed by
a developer pursuant to the site plan approval process. After review, the
Building Department shall issue a permit to applicants that meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   A tree protection plan is required when a development project is
planned for a property. No building permit shall be issued by the Building
Department until an approved tree protection plan permit has been issued.
   (H)   The permit fees shall be set and reviewed by the Township Board.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.36  NOTICE.
   The Township Building Official shall notify, by certified mail or by posting
notice in a conspicuous location on the property, the owner, agent or occupant
of any lands on which a violation of this chapter is found to exist. The notice
shall require that the person having charge of the land resolve any violations
of this chapter; and shall contain a summary of the provisions of this chapter.
If the property is not in compliance with this chapter at the end of the period
specified in the notice of violation, an appearance ticket may be issued.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.37  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The township shall have the right to enter property to investigate the
removal of heritage trees on a development site. A developer who removes a
heritage tree(s) without a required permit shall pay into the Tree Fund for
each heritage tree removed pursuant to a fee schedule set by the Township
Board.
   (B)   Discreetly removed trees or trees that are intentionally damaged and
not replaced according to the provisions of this chapter require payment into
the Tree Fund, pursuant to a fee schedule set by the Township Board.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.38  APPEALS.
   Any appeals to this chapter shall be submitted, in writing, to the Township
Supervisor, or his or her designee, within 21 days of the township's
determination. The Township Administrative Review Committee shall hear the
appeal at its earliest opportunity and shall determine the matter under such
expert advice as may be necessary.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
§ 98.39  TREE BOARD.
   The township's Environmental Leadership Commission is hereby designated as
the Township Tree Board in addition to its regular statutory duties. The Tree
Board shall be responsible for advising the township on matters pertaining to
the protection, preservation and reforestation of the township public and
private tree canopy, trees and woodlands. In the absence of this commission,
the Planning Commission shall serve as the Tree Board.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 25, passed 7-27-2021)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CHRISTMAS TREE SALES
      
111.   JUNK YARDS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   USED CAR LOTS
      
115.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SERVICES
      
116.   GARAGE SALES REGULATIONS
      
117.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110:  CHRISTMAS TREE SALES
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Inspections
   
110.04   Issuance of license
   
110.05   Clean up of premises
   
110.06   Locations
   
110.07   Exemption
   
110.08   Hours of operation
   
110.09   Lighting
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 42.1 et seq.
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling
Christmas trees on any open lot in the township without first obtaining a
license from the Township Clerk and paying a license fee in an amount
prescribed by the Township Board by resolution.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.00)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION.
   Applications for licenses required by this chapter shall be made upon forms
provided by the Clerk, which shall be signed and verified under oath by the
applicant, if an individual, or by the authorized agent for any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company or organization and shall set
forth the following:
   (A)   If an individual, the name, address and telephone number of the
individual;
   (B)   If a partnership, the names, resident and business address and
telephone number of each partner;
   (C)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws such
corporation was organized and, if a foreign corporation, whether authorized to
do business in the state, the names of the principal officers, directors and
local representatives, their residences and business addresses and telephone
numbers;
   (D)   If an employee, the name residence and telephone number of the
employee together with written credentials setting forth the exact nature of
this employment;
   (E)   The length of time for which the license is sought;
   (F)   Legal description and tax identification number of the property on
which sales will take place;
   (G)   Evidence of lease, permission or ownership of licensed premises;
   (H)   Permission for the township to enter upon the premises and clean them
if necessary under the provisions of §
110.05;
   (I)   Cash deposit of $500 to cover any required clean up under the
provisions of §
110.05; and
   (J)   Evidence that a state sales tax license has been applied for, granted
or waived.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.01)
§ 110.03  INSPECTIONS.
   Upon receipt of an application, the Township Clerk shall forward a copy of
the application to the Township Supervisor and the department heads of the
Building, Planning, Fire and Police Department. The aforementioned department
heads shall review the application and submit a written response to determine
that the application complies with the provisions of this and all other
ordinances of the township, including the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.02)
§ 110.04  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The Township Clerk shall not issue the appropriate license until after
receiving a written response from all of the aforementioned department heads
certifying that the applicant complies with the provisions of this and all
other township ordinances, including the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.03)
§ 110.05  CLEAN UP OF PREMISES.
   Each licensee shall clean up the licensed premises and remove unsold trees,
branches, parts of trees, refuse or debris and all signs used in connection
with the sales on or before December 28 of the year the license is issued. It
shall be unlawful for a licensee to abandon the licensed premises without such
cleaning and removal. If any licensee fails to do the cleaning and removing,
the Department of Public Works shall enter upon the premises, do the cleaning
and removing and charge the cost thereof to the cash deposit. The remainder of
the deposit, if any, shall be refunded. Any licensee who performs his or her
obligations shall be refunded his or her deposit on or before the next
succeeding January 15.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.04)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  LOCATIONS.
   Christmas trees may be sold without the use of a building in OS, C-1, C-
2 and IND Zoning Districts or by churches, schools or other non-profit
organizations on property owned by such institution or organization in any
zoning district.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.05)
§ 110.07  EXEMPTION.
   Local charitable, benevolent or educational non-profit organizations shall
not be required to pay a license fee, but shall deposit the clean up bond.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.06)
§ 110.08  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Sales of Christmas trees may occur between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.07)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09  LIGHTING.
   No licensed premises may be lighted so as to distract or annoy passing
motorists.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.08)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § IV-1.09)
CHAPTER 111:  JUNK YARDS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License and fees
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   Rules; regulations and conditions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 339 of 1919, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 287.261 et seq.
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person duly authorized by the township to enforce
the ordinances, laws and regulations of the township.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, used, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, bailed, packed, disassembled, handled or stored,
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires, bottles and including automobile wrecking yards and any area of more
than 200 square feet for storage keeping or abandonment of junk but does not
include uses established entirely in an enclosed building.
   PERSON. Any person, employee, firm, partnership, association, company,
corporation or organization of any kind.
(Prior Code, § IV-3.00)
§ 111.02  LICENSE AND FEES.
   (A)   Licenses. Any person operating or maintaining a junk yard in the
township shall obtain an annual license for operation of maintenance from the
Township Clerk. All licenses granted under the provisions of the chapter shall
expire on December 31 of each year. Licenses shall not be transferable. Every
license granted hereunder shall be displayed at all times by the licensee in a
conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   Fees. There shall be an annual fee for the license in an amount as
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § IV-3.01)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form. The application for a junk yard license shall be submitted on a
form prescribed by the Township Clerk. The application shall contain, as a
minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, date of birth, home telephone
number, business telephone number, business address and applicant’s previous
address for the past five years;
      (2)   The extent of operation expected, size of junk yard, lighting to be
employed at night, size of signs to be erected, number and size of structures
to be located thereon and the hours of operation per a 24-hour day;
      (3)   The managers or agents to be employed, name address, date of birth,
title and home telephone number;
      (4)   The applicant’s previous experience as a junk yard lot operator;
and
      (5)   A signature and printed name.
   (B)   Inspections. Upon receipt of an application, the Township Clerk shall
notify all department heads of the application by forwarding a copy to the
department heads and requesting from them a review of the application and a
written response to determine that the premises complies with the provisions of
this or any other ordinances of the township, including the Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § IV-3.02)
§ 111.04  RULES; REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be issued subject to the
following rules, regulations and conditions.
   (A)   All licensees shall maintain their junk yard and the property
concerned therewith in an orderly, safe and neat appearing manner.
   (B)   The licensee shall, at least once each month, prepare and mail to the
Department of State in East Lansing, Michigan, at the Secretary of State at
Lansing, Michigan, a sworn statement of all purchases and sales made by the
licensee as is required by Public Act 12 of 1929, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.451 et
seq.
   (C)   The enforcement officer shall have access at all times to all premises
where a junk yard license is in effect and it shall be the duty of the officers
to periodically investigate and inspect the premises and records of operation.
   (D)   The Township Board reserves the right to revoke any license issued
under this chapter and to refuse to issue a license hereunder if it appears to
the Township Board that the operation of a junk yard would be against the
public health, interest and general welfare or that this chapter has in any
manner been violated.
(Prior Code, § IV-3.03)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § IV-3.04)
CHAPTER 112:  LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Application for new license
   
112.03   Objections to renewal and request for revocation
   
112.04   Inspections
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
436.1101 et seq.
§ 112.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for
review of applications, renewals and revocations of licenses to sell beer and
wine or spirits and to provide for inspections of liquor establishments.
(Prior Code, § IV-4.00)
§ 112.02  APPLICATION FOR NEW LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. Applications for a license to sell beer and wine or
spirits shall be made to the Township Board, in writing, signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
partnership or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit and shall contain the
following statements and information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the cases of an
individual; or, in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the objects for which it
is organized, the names and addresses of its officers and directors, and, if a
majority interest in the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his or her nominee, the name and address of the person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the date and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and in the case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time the applicant has been in business of that
character or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license;
      (6)   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in this application and the
disposition of the application;
      (7)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this article or the laws of the state;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States or any code of the township in the conduct of
its business; and
      (9)   The application shall be accompanied by building and plat plans
showing the entire structure and premises and in particular the specific areas
where the license is to be utilized. The plans shall demonstrate adequate off-
street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities and, where appropriate,
adequate plans for screening and noise control.
   (B)   Restrictions on licenses. No license shall be issued or renewed to:
      (1)   A person whose license, under this chapter, has been revoked for
cause;
      (2)   Any person who, at the time of application or renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application;
      (3)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of the co-partnership
shall qualify to obtain a license;
      (4)   A corporation, if any officer or director thereof or a stock owner
or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock corporation
would not be eligible to receive license hereunder for any reason;
      (5)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor;
      (7)   A person who does not have title to the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for
which the license is issued;
      (8)   Any law enforcement officer or any member of the Township Board;
      (9)   For premises where there exists a violation of the applicable
Building, Electrical, Mechanical, Plumbing or Fire Codes, applicable zoning
regulations or applicable public health regulations;
      (10)   For any premises unless the sale of beer, wine or spirits is shown
to be incidental and subordinate to other permitted business uses upon the
site, such as, but not limited to, food sales and motel operations;
      (11)   For premises where it is determined by a majority of the Board
that the premises do not or will not reasonably soon after commencement of
operations have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal
facilities, screening, noise or nuisance control; and
      (12)   Where the Board determines by a majority vote that the proposed
location is inappropriate considering: the desirability of establishing a
location in developed, commercial areas in preference to isolated, undeveloped
areas; the attitude or adjacent residents and property owners; traffic safety;
accessibility to the site from abutting roads; capability of abutting roads to
accommodate the commercial activity; distance from public or private schools
for minors; proximity of an inconsistent zoning classification; and
accessibility from primary roads or state highways.
   (C)   Term of license. Approval of a license shall be for a period of one
year, subject to annual renewal by the Township Board upon continued compliance
with the regulations of this chapter. Approval of a license shall be with the
understanding that any necessary remodeling or new construction for the use of
the license shall be commenced within six months of the Township Board or the
State Liquor Control Commission approving the license, whichever last occurs.
Any unusual delay in the completion of the remodeling or construction may
subject the license to revocation.
   (D)   License hearing. The Township Board shall grant a public hearing upon
the license application. Following the hearing, the Board shall submit to the
applicant a written statement of its findings and determination. The Board’s
determination shall be based upon satisfactory compliance with the restrictions
set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(9) above.
(Prior Code, § IV-4.01)
§ 112.03  OBJECTIONS TO RENEWAL AND REQUEST FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Before filing an objection to renewal or request for revocation of
a license with the State Liquor Control Commission, the Township Board shall
serve the license holder, by first-class mail, mailed not less than ten days
prior to hearing, a notice of hearing, which notice shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Notice of proposed action;
         (b)   Reasons for the proposed action;
         (c)   Date, time and place of hearing; and
         (d)   A statement that the licensee may present evidence and testimony
and confront adverse witnesses.
      (2)   Following a hearing by the Board, the Township Board shall submit
to the license holder and the Commission a written statement of its findings
and determination.
   (B)   Criteria for non-renewal or revocation. The Township Board shall
recommend by majority vote non-renewal or revocation of a license upon a
determination by it that, based upon competent, material and substantial
evidence presented at a hearing, either of the following exists:
      (1)   Violation of any of the restrictions on licenses set forth in §
112.02(B)(1) through (B)(12); or
      (2)   Maintenance of a nuisance upon the premises. A NUISANCE is defined
as follows:
         (a)   Selling or furnishing alcoholic liquor, on at least three
separate occasions in a single calendar year, to a person who is less than 21
years of age, provided that such sale and furnishing does not involve the use
of falsified or fraudulent identification by the person who is less than 21
years of age;
         (b)   Allowing the premises to be used for the unlawful manufacturing,
bartering, using or furnishing of any controlled substance as defined by the
laws of the state;
         (c)   Allowing the premises to be used for the purpose of lewdness,
prostitution or gambling; or
         (d)   Any other acts or conduct which, by competent, material or
substantial evidence, the Township Board declares to be a nuisance, provided,
that the nuisance is subject to injunction and/or abatement as provided by the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § IV-4.02)
§ 112.04  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Township Police Department shall inspect not less than monthly all
liquor establishments licensed under the Liquor Control Code of 1998, being
Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 et seq., of the state and report
the results of all inspections promptly to the Township Board. The Police
Department shall further promptly investigate all complaints received by it
concerning violations of the State Liquor Control Code of 1998 or improper
operations and practices concerning alcoholic liquor traffic within the
township and report the same to the Township Board and, when appropriate under
the State Liquor Control Code of 1998, to the State Liquor Control Commission
for appropriate proceedings against the violator.
   (B)   Police officers shall have the right to inspect any place in the
township where alcoholic liquor is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, kept
for sale, possessed or transported or where the inspector suspects the same is
being thus manufactured, sold, offered for sale, kept for sale, possessed or
transported. Whenever possible, all inspection reports shall be made on liquor
law enforcement inspection forms furnished by the State Liquor Control
Commission or on similar forms otherwise obtained by the Township Liquor
Control Enforcement Department.
(Prior Code, § IV-4.03)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, other than persons required to be licensed under the State
Liquor Control Code of 1998, being Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101
et seq., who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any licensee who shall violate any of the provisions of the State
Liquor Control Code of 1998 or any rule or regulation of the State Liquor
Control Commission promulgated thereunder or who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter and any person who shall prohibit or interfere with
the authorized inspection by a township police officer shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § IV-4.04)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Prohibited activity
Peddlers
   
113.15   License requirements
   
113.16   Helpers
   
113.17   Restriction; schools
   
113.18   Hours of operation
   
113.19   Peddler’s license; application
   
113.20   Inspections
   
113.21   Issuance of peddler’s license; term
   
113.22   Denial of peddler’s license application; appeal hearing
   
113.23   Peddling; exempt persons
   
113.24   Revocation of license; appeal
   
113.25   Surrender of license on demand; return
Solicitors
   
113.40   Registration requirement
   
113.41   Registration requirement
   
113.42   Solicitation without registration
   
113.43   Hours of operation
   
113.44   Exempt persons
   
113.45   Property owners posted prohibition of soliciting or peddling
   
113.46   License fees
   
113.47   Transfer or misuse of license, badge or identification
   
113.48   Display
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 42.1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes from place to place selling or offering for
sale goods, wares, merchandise and all kinds of property, traveling on foot or
in vehicles and selling from house to house or by crying his or her wares from
the street. This shall include any individual taking or attempting to take
orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, books or magazines, insurance
policies of any kind, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future
delivery or for services to be furnished or performed in the future. The term
shall include “street vendors”, “hawkers” and “hucksters”.
   PEDDLING. Going from place to place selling or offering for sale goods,
wares, merchandise and all kinds of property, traveling on foot or in vehicles
and selling from house to house or by crying his or her wares from the street.
This shall include taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares
and merchandise, books or magazines, insurance policies of any kind, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future.
   SOLICITATION. Traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or
any other type of conveyance from place to place, from house to house or from
street to street for the purpose of soliciting funds or pledges.
   SOLICITOR. Any individual, group, association or non-profit corporation,
whether a resident of the township or not, traveling either by foot, wagon,
automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street for the purpose of soliciting
funds or pledges.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation engaged temporarily in a
retail sale of goods, wares or merchandise, excluding the sale of Christmas
trees, in any place in the township and who, for the purpose of conducting the
business, occupies or uses any lot, building, room, structure or any kind of
vehicle. The terms shall include:
      (1)   Itinerant merchants;
      (2)   Itinerant vendors;
      (3)   Persons, firms or corporations who shall be engaged in selling
goods, wares or merchandise at retail in this township and who are not on the
tax rolls of this township;
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation who commences a business of selling
goods, wares and merchandise at retail within this township after January 1 in
any year and who is not assessed on the tax roll for the year. The person, firm
or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer or by conducting the transient
business in connection with, as a part of or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer; and
      (5)   TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not include any produce merchants to whom
a food handler’s license shall have been issued.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.00)
§ 113.02  PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Meat sales prohibited. No person shall sell or peddle fresh meat upon
any street, alley or public place.
   (B)   Transient merchant; prohibited activity. It shall be unlawful for any
transient merchant, itinerant merchant, or itinerant vendor to engage in the
business within the township.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.01)  Penalty, see §
113.99
PEDDLERS
§ 113.15  LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddling without first obtaining a
peddlers license from the Township Clerk.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.02)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.16  HELPERS.
   No licensed peddler shall be entitled to more than one helper on foot for
each vehicle used in the business.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.03)
§ 113.17  RESTRICTION; SCHOOLS.
   No peddler shall stop for the purpose of selling or offering to sell any
food products within a distance of 500 feet from any public, private or
parochial school building or the lands on which the school buildings are
located in the township on any days during which the school is in session or on
any days during which the building is being used for educational or
recreational purposes. No licensee operating as a peddler shall unreasonably
interfere with traffic or cause or permit large numbers of persons,
particularly children, to congregate upon the public streets of this township.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.04)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddling between the hours of 6:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.05)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.19  PEDDLER’S LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for licenses required by this subchapter shall be made
upon forms provided by the Clerk, which shall be signed and verified under oath
by the applicant, if an individual, or by the authorized agent for any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company or organization and shall set
forth the following:
      (1)   If an individual, the name, address and telephone number of the
individual;
      (2)   If a partnership, the name, resident and business address and
telephone number of each partner;
      (3)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws the
corporation was organized and, if a foreign corporation, whether authorized to
do business in the state, the names of the principal officers, directors and
local representatives, their residences and business addresses and telephone
numbers;
      (4)   If an employee, the name, residence and telephone number of the
employee together with written credentials setting forth the exact nature of
his or her employment;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is sought;
      (6)   A copy of the driver’s license or state identification card and a
photograph of the applicant or the agent for the applicant who is to do the
actual, peddling, which photograph shall be two inches by two inches showing
head and shoulders of applicant or agent;
      (7)   A copy of the applicant’s computerized criminal history (CCH);
      (8)   (a)   A copy of the applicant’s master driving record; and
         (b)   A lessee, tenant, or portable vending equipment operator vending
with the permission of and within a commercial establishment and not using a
motor vehicle regulated under the State Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq., is exempt from the requirement to include a
copy of his or her master driving record with the application, but only to the
extent that the application is restricted to the vending without the use of a
motor vehicle regulated under the State Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq.
      (9)   A brief description of the product, products or services involved;
      (10)   If any peddling is to be carried on by a minor or minors between
the ages of 14 and 17 years, an approved copy of the State Department of Labor
Form L52 showing the approved hours of work and the type of soliciting,
canvassing or peddling to be done shall be attached to the application;
      (11)   The name, address and telephone number of a Michigan resident who
is the registered agent of the individual, corporation or association, who has
the full power and authority to accept service of process for and on behalf of
applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transacted under the license with the result that service on the agent
shall be valid as if personally served in the applicant; and
      (12)   A history of the applicant’s peddler’s license revocations and
ordinance violations.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application
fee to be established by resolution of the Township Board. The Township Board
may, from time to time, modify the established fee schedule. The application
fee is separate from the license fee described in §
113.46.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.06)
§ 113.20  INSPECTIONS.
   Upon receipt of an application for a peddler’s license, the Township Clerk
may request the assistance of the township departments to determine that the
premises comply with the provisions of this and any other ordinance of the
township, including the zoning ordinance, and that the applicant or the
activity to be licensed do not constitute an apparent danger to the health,
safety and welfare of the people of the township.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.07)
§ 113.21  ISSUANCE OF PEDDLER’S LICENSE; TERM.
   The Township Clerk shall issue a license and an identification card to the
applicant and the applicant’s employees unless the Clerk finds reason for
denial including that the applicant’s license has previously been revoked. The
license shall be no more than six months in term. The standards for denial of
the application by the Township Clerk are as follows:
   (A)   The application is not completely filled out as required by §
113.19(A);
   (B)   The applicant’s computerized criminal history (CCH) shows convictions
for activities that pose a threat or a danger to the residents of the township
should a license be granted. By way of example, but not exclusively, the
convictions would include reckless driving, drunk driving, disturbing the
peace, assault and battery or simple assault, domestic violence, stalking,
theft, dishonesty or deception, fraud, obstruction of justice, disorderly
person, trespassing, window peeping, criminal sexual conduct, felonious
assault, murder, assault with intent to commit any other crime, breaking and
entering and/or any other violation of the Criminal Code of the state, United
States Code and/or any other violation of the Criminal Code of the state, the
United States Codes or local ordinances pertaining to criminal conduct;
   (C)   The product or services being offered violate any provision of
federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations;
   (D)   The applicant proposes to use peddlers who are minors under the age of
14 years or, if between the ages of 14 and 17 years, do not have an approved
copy of the State Department of Labor Form L52;
   (E)   Verification of any of the information required by §
113.19 shows the information provided by the applicant to be fraudulent, a
misrepresentation or a false statement;
   (F)   An investigation through the Township Police Department or any other
law enforcement agency shows a pattern and history of conduct which would
justify a revocation of the applicant’s license under §
113.24;
   (G)   The applicant or any of the proposed employees of the applicant have a
history of peddler’s and/or solicitor’s license/permit violations, revocations,
or a history of ordinance violations regardless of whether they have resulted
in conviction;
   (H)   Failure to pay the nonrefundable application fee;
   (I)   No license shall be issued to any applicant as a solicitor or peddler
until the applicant shall have obtained the age of 18 years, except that a
person between the ages of 12 and 18 years may be issued a license as a
solicitor or peddler, if the applicant is accompanied by a sponsoring adult at
both the time of applying for the license and at the actual time of selling the
products; and
   (J)   Any other competent, material and substantial evidence indicating the
applicant or any of the applicant’s proposed employees pose an apparent danger
to the health, safety and welfare of the people of the township and/or the
activity proposed to be licensed constitutes an apparent danger to the health,
safety and welfare of the people of the township.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.08)
§ 113.22  DENIAL OF PEDDLER’S LICENSE APPLICATION; APPEAL HEARING.
   (A)   The Clerk may refuse to issue a license for the reasons stated in §
113.21.
   (B)   Any person whose license application has been denied shall have the
right to petition the Board of Trustees of the township for an appeal. The
Township Board shall grant a public hearing on this appeal, and the applicant
shall have the right to appear and present evidence on his or her behalf.
Following the hearing, the Board shall submit to the applicant a written
statement of its findings and determinations. The Board’s determination shall
be based upon competent, material and substantial evidence establishing the
reasons stated in §
113.21.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.09)
§ 113.23  PEDDLING; EXEMPT PERSONS.
   (A)   Any person under 18 years of age, when engaged in peddling on foot in
the neighborhood of his or her residence under the direct supervision of any
school or recognized charitable or religious organization, shall be exempt from
the licensing requirements of §
113.15, but shall be subject to the other provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who has obtained a peddler’s license from the state
pursuant to Public Act 359 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 35.441 et seq., on
account of such person being honorably discharged from the armed forces of the
United States of America shall be exempt from the peddlers licensing provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.10)
§ 113.24  REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   Licenses issued pursuant to §
113.21 may be revoked by the Township Clerk upon the Clerk’s findings based
upon competent, material and substantial evidence of any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Conviction by the licensee of any felony; or
      (5)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in a manner as to
constitute breach of the peace.
   (B)   Notice of the revocation of a license shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds for the revocation. The notice shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at the address provided in the
application.
   (C)   Any licensee whose license has been revoked as herein provided shall
have the right to appeal the revocation to the Township Board as provided in §
113.21.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.11)
§ 113.25  SURRENDER OF LICENSE ON DEMAND; RETURN.
   The license shall be surrendered on demand to a police officer based upon a
probable cause belief by the officer that the licensee is in violation of this
subchapter. The license shall be returned to the licensee within 72 hours upon
failure of the Township Clerk to find cause to revoke the license as provided
in §
113.24.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.12)
SOLICITORS
§ 113.40  REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall engage in soliciting or as a solicitor within the township
without first registering with the Township Clerk.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.13)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.41  REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   The solicitor’s registration application shall be made upon forms provided
by the Clerk, which shall be signed and verified under oath and shall contain
the following information:
   (A)   Name and a description of the applicant;
   (B)   The permanent home address and local address of the applicant;
   (C)   The name of the organization the applicant represents or will be
soliciting on behalf of, the organization’s local address and the address of
the headquarters or the organization;
   (D)   The length of time for which the right to solicit is desired;
   (E)   A brief description of the non-exempt solicitation to be performed,
including the topic;
   (F)   A color copy of the driver’s license or state identification card of
the applicant, and a copy of the identification badge and card from the
organization (if any) for which the applicant is to do the actual soliciting;
and
   (G)   The applicant’s signed affidavit as to bona fide religious, charitable
or non-profit status of the organization the applicant represents.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.14)
§ 113.42  SOLICITATION WITHOUT REGISTRATION.
   Except as exempted herein, any individual, group, association or non-profit
corporation who engages in solicitation without first registering with the
Township Clerk and obtaining a registration form shall receive a warning and
shall not continue to solicit without duly registering. Any individual, group,
association or non-profit corporation who receives two or more warnings for
unregistered solicitation shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.15)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.43  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No individual, group, association or non-profit corporation shall engage in
solicitation between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.16)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.44  EXEMPT PERSONS.
   Any person involved only in religious proselytizing, political speech
(anonymous or otherwise) or distribution of handbills, but not fundraising,
shall be exempt from the regulations contained in this article.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.17)
§ 113.45  PROPERTY OWNERS POSTED PROHIBITION OF SOLICITING OR PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for an individual, group, association, partnership or
corporation to engage in solicitation, peddling, religious proselytizing,
political speech (anonymous or otherwise) or distribution of handbills at any
time on premises where the property owner, or person in control of the
property, has clearly posted a notice that solicitors and peddlers are
prohibited or otherwise not allowed.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.18)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.46  LICENSE FEES.
   For each license issued under the provisions of this subchapter, the
applicant shall pay the fee, as set by resolution of the Township Board, for
the month(s) or part thereof during which the license shall be valid.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.19)
§ 113.47  TRANSFER OR MISUSE OF LICENSE, BADGE OR IDENTIFICATION.
   No license, badge or identification card issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be used or worn at any time by any person other than the one
to whom it was issued and only when engaged in the activities for which the
license or identification card was issued.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.20)
§ 113.48  DISPLAY.
   (A)   Unless exempt, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a
peddler or solicitor without displaying on the outer clothing the
identification card issued by the Township Clerk’s office. Unless exempt, each
vehicle, conveyance and container must have a license attached to it so it can
be seen from the outside of the vehicle, conveyance or container.
   (B)   Peddlers and solicitors are required to exhibit their license and/or
registration form at the request of any citizen or public official.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.21)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any other
legal entity who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than
90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § IV-5.22)
CHAPTER 114:  USED CAR LOTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License and fees
   
114.03   Application
   
114.04   Rules, regulations and conditions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq. and Public Act 232       of 1937, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.501 et seq.
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person duly authorized by the township to enforce
the ordinances, laws and regulations of the township.
   PERSON. Any person, employee, firm, partnership, association, company,
corporation or organization of any kind.
   USED CAR LOT. Any place where used motor vehicles are displayed and offered
for sale in the open.
(Prior Code, § IV-6.00)
§ 114.02  LICENSE AND FEES.
   (A)   Licenses. Any person operating or maintaining a used car lot in the
township shall obtain an annual license for the operation of maintenance from
the Township Clerk. All licenses granted under the provisions of the chapter
shall expire on December 31 of each year. The licenses shall not be
transferable. Every license granted hereunder shall be displayed at all times
by the licensee in a conspicuous place on the premises.
   (B)   Fees. There shall be an annual fee for the license in an amount as
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § IV-6.01)
§ 114.03  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form. The application for a used car lot license shall be submitted on
a form prescribed by the Township Clerk. The application shall contain, as a
minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, date of birth, home telephone
number, business telephone number, business address and applicant’s previous
address for the past five years;
      (2)   The extent of operation expected, size of used car lot, lighting to
be employed at night, size of signs to be erected, number and size of
structures to be located thereon and the hours of operation per a 24-hour day;
      (3)   The managers or agents to be employed, name, address, date of
birth, title, home telephone number;
      (4)   The applicant’s previous experience as a used car lot operator; and
      (5)   A signature and printed name.
   (B)   Inspections. Upon receipt of an application, the Township Clerk shall
notify all department heads of the application by forwarding a copy to the
department heads and requesting from them a review of the application and a
written response to determine that the premises complies with the provisions of
this or any other ordinances of the township, including the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § IV-6.02)
§ 114.04  RULES, REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be issued subject to the
following rules, regulations and conditions:
   (A)   All licenses shall maintain their used car lots and the property
concerned therewith in an orderly, safe and neat appearing manner;
   (B)   The licensee shall, at least once each month, prepare and mail to the
Department of State Police in East Lansing, Michigan, at the Secretary of State
at Lansing, Michigan, a sworn statement of all purchases and sales made by the
licensee as is required by Public Act 232 of 1937, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.501 et
seq.;
   (C)   The enforcement officer shall have access at all times to all premises
where a used car lot license is in effect and it shall be the duty of the
officer to periodically investigate and inspect the premises and records of
operation; and
   (D)   The Township Board reserves the right to revoke any license issued
under this article and to refuse to issue a license hereunder if it appears to
the Township Board that the operation of a used car lot would be against the
public health, interest and general welfare or that this chapter has in any
manner been violated.
(Prior Code, § IV-6.03)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day that the violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § IV-6.04)
CHAPTER 115:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SERVICE
Section
Multi-Channel Service Provider Regulatory Ordinance
   
115.01   Title
   
115.02   Construction
   
115.03   Scope
   
115.04   Compliance with Act 480
   
115.05   Definitions
   
115.06   Franchise required
Telecommunications
   
115.20   Purpose
   
115.21   Reservation of rights
   
115.22   Definitions
   
115.23   Permits
   
115.24   Permit application procedures
   
115.25   Annual permit fees
   
115.26   Duration of permit; renewal
   
115.27   Permit terms and requirements
   
115.28   Use of public utility easements and rights-of-way by permittee
   
115.29   No township liability; indemnification
   
115.30   Insurance
   
115.31   No assignment or transfer of control without township consent
   
115.32   Revocation
   
115.33   Removal
   
115.34   Other provisions not waived
   
115.35   Authorized township officials
 
   
115.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Gross revenues
   
Appendix A-1:  Allocation of revenue from non-switched telecommunications
services
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 216 of 1995, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.2101
et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 480 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3301
et seq.
MULTI-CHANNEL SERVICE PROVIDER REGULATORY ORDINANCE
§ 115.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter may be known and cited as the “Multi-Channel Service
Provider Regulatory Ordinance for the Charter Township of Plymouth, Michigan”.
(Prior Code, § V-1.00)
§ 115.02  CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall be construed in light of applicable federal and state
laws and regulations governing multi-channel service practices which
specifically includes cable television.
(Prior Code, § V-1.01)
§ 115.03  SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall be effective within the geographical limits of the
township, including any area subsequently annexed by the township.
(Prior Code, § V-1.02)
§ 115.04  COMPLIANCE WITH ACT 480.
   All persons are hereby required to comply with Public Act 480 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § V-1.03)
§ 115.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 480. Public Act 480 of the Public Acts of 2006 of the State of Michigan,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3301 et seq.
   MCS. Multi-channel service.
   MCS PROVIDER or MULTI-CHANNEL SERVICE PROVIDER. Any person or group of
person who:
      (1)   Provides multi-channel communications service over a multi-channel
system and directly or indirectly owns a significant interest in the multi-
channel system;
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible through any arrangement,
the management and operation of a multi-channel system; or
      (3)   MCS PROVIDER or MULTI-CHANNEL SERVICE PROVIDER specifically
includes the terms “cable operator”, “DBS operator” or “direct broadcast
satellite provider”, “MDS provider” or “multi-point distribution system
provider”, “MMDS provider” and “CX operator”.
(Prior Code, § V-1.04)
§ 115.06  FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No person or MCS provider shall be permitted to construct, operate or
maintain a multi-channel system which requires the laying or positioning of
cable (coaxial, fiber optic or functional equivalent) across the easements and/
or rights-of-way of the township, without having first obtained a franchise
from the township as required by Act 480, being Public Act 480, M.C.L.A. §§
484.3301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § V-1.05)  Penalty, see §
115.99
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
§ 115.20  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the access to and ongoing use
of public utility easements and rights-of-way by telecommunications providers
to ensure and protect the public health, safety and welfare and to exercise
reasonable control of the public utility easements and rights-of-way pursuant
to the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Ways Oversight Act
(METROA), (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.), the
Michigan Telecommunications Act (Public Act 216 of 1995, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 484.2101 et seq.), other state statutes (including, without
limitation, M.C.L.A. § 247.183) and Article VII, § 29 of the 1963 Michigan
Constitution by minimizing disruption of the public utility easements and
rights-of-way by regulating the access to and ongoing use of the public utility
easements and rights-of-way by telecommunications providers and the
construction, installation, operation and use of facilities in the public
utility easements and rights-of-way to provide telecommunication services;
ensuring that the township and the public are protected from liability for use
of the public utility easements and rights-of-way by telecommunications
providers; providing for the payment of nondiscriminatory permit fees which do
not exceed the fixed and variable costs of granting permits and maintaining the
public utility easements and rights-of-way used by telecommunications
providers; and assisting telecommunications providers in understanding the
township’s requirements for use of the public utility easements and rights-of-
way and providing a fair and nondiscriminatory policy for permitting the use of
the public utility easements and rights-of-way by such providers.
(Prior Code, § V-2.00)
§ 115.21  RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The issuance of a permit or permits under this subchapter and the access to
and use of the public utility easements and rights-of-way by a
telecommunications provider shall not constitute a waiver of or otherwise
adversely affect the following reserved rights.
   (A)   Right to require franchise. Article VII, § 29 of the 1963 Michigan
Constitution requires that all public utilities obtain a franchise to conduct a
local business within the township. The applicability of this requirement to
telecommunications providers may be challenged under § 102(dd) of the State
Telecommunications Act, being Public Act 480, M.C.L.A. §§ 484.2101 et seq.
which purports to define telecommunications services as not constituting public
utility services. Due to this and other legal and regulatory issues, and to
avoid the expense and delay of litigation that may be unnecessary, the township
hereby determines that telecommunications providers shall not be required at
this time to obtain franchises for the transaction of local business within the
township. Telecommunications providers shall be required to obtain and maintain
a permit for access to and ongoing use of the public utility easements and
rights-of-way and to otherwise comply with the terms of this subchapter. A
permit shall not constitute a franchise. The township reserves the right to
require telecommunications providers to obtain a franchise in the future to
transact local business within the township.
   (B)   Rights regarding takings claim. Certain cable or telecommunications
providers have initiated or supported legal proceedings in which they contend
that federal law grants them the right to physically occupy the rights-of-way
and other property of a municipality for the purpose of providing
telecommunications service without compensating the municipality for the use or
value of the property so occupied or the cost of acquiring and maintaining such
property. Municipalities dispute that claim. The township believes that if such
a claim were sustained, it would, among other things, constitute an unlawful
taking by the United States in violation of the Fifth Amendment of the United
States Constitution. The legal issues involved in the disputes have not been
finally decided. The township desires to act on applications for permits
granting access to its public utility easements and rights-of-way at this time
rather than wait for determination of these issues, provided this can be done
without waiver or loss of any rights of the township or a permittee. Therefore,
notwithstanding any other provision hereof, a permittee is not precluded by
this subchapter from seeking relief from the fee provisions of §
115.25 from any court or agency of competent jurisdiction. If a permittee seeks
such relief, the township reserves the right to assert a takings claim and to
take all action it deems necessary in support thereof. Neither this subchapter
nor the issuance or acceptance of a permit hereunder constitutes or will be
claimed to constitute a waiver or relinquishment of any rights or defenses of
either the township or the permittee in connection with these disputed issues,
and the acceptance of a permit constitutes an acknowledgment and agreement
thereto by the permittee.
   (C)   Option to obtain consent agreement. The township finds that
legislative, legal and regulatory issues in connection with use of the public
utility easements and rights-of-way by telecommunications providers and the
resulting potential for litigation and delay are likely to have an adverse
impact on the development of a healthy, competitive telecommunications
infrastructure in the community. This would be detrimental to the township and
its residents as well as to telecommunications providers. The issues affect,
among other things, both the cost to telecommunications providers and
compensation to the township for the maintenance and use of its public utility
easements and rights-of-way. In order to promote certainty, encourage
competition and avoid litigation, the township will, at the request and sole
option of an applicant or permittee, consider entering into a consent agreement
for use of the public utility easements and rights-of-way for the provision of
telecommunications services on terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the
township and the telecommunications provider. It is the township’s intent that
such an agreement would satisfy the requirement for a permit under this
subchapter, and would include, among other things, a fee of up to 5% of the
applicable gross revenues of the telecommunications provider, which would
include the permit fee; an extended term of up to 15 years; authorization to
conduct a local business in the township pursuant to Article VII, § 29 of the
1963 Michigan Constitution; and a covenant to abide by the terms of the
agreement as a compromise of disputed issues and uncertain outcomes,
notwithstanding the resolution of these legislative, regulatory and legal
requirements in the future. A permittee may request a consent agreement at any
time.
(Prior Code, § V-2.01)
§ 115.22  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE and AFFILIATED. Any entity controlling, controlled by or under
common control with a permittee.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official or his or her designee.
   CONTROL, CONTROLLING and CONTROLLED. Effective control, by whatever means
exercised, such as those described in Report and Order and Further Notice of
Proposed Rule Making in MM Docket 92-264, 8 FCC Red 6828 (1993) at paragraphs
22-28 (adopting broadcast transfer of control standards as then in effect).
   LOCAL EXCHANGE SERVICE. The provision of an access line and usage within a
local calling area for the transmission of high quality two-way interactive
switched voice or data communication.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to this subchapter for access
to and ongoing use of public utility easements and rights-of-way by
telecommunications providers for wires, poles, pipes, conduits or other
facilities designed or used to provide telecommunications services. The term
PERMIT does not include any other permits, licenses or approvals required by
the township or other governmental entities.
   PERMITTEE. A telecommunications provider which has been issued a permit
pursuant to this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The public rights-of-way,
easements, highways, streets and alleys within the township.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT. Public Act 216 of 1995, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.2101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. A person who provides one or more
telecommunications services for compensation.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Regulated and unregulated services offered to
customers for the transmission of two-way interactive communication and
associated usage. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES does not include one-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming or other programming services
and subscriber interaction for the selection of video programming or other
programming services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. Facilities designed or used to provide
telecommunications services.
   TOWNSHIP. The Charter Township of Plymouth.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of Plymouth or
its designee. This definition does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Township Board. In any case
in which a hearing is held pursuant to this subchapter, the Township Board may
conduct the hearing or, in its sole discretion, may by resolution appoint a
committee or subcommittee of the Township Board or a hearing officer to conduct
the hearing and submit a proposal for decision to it, pursuant to procedures
established by resolution.
(Prior Code, § V-2.02)
§ 115.23  PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall use the public utility easements and
rights-of-way to provide telecommunications services without a permit issued
pursuant to this subchapter or a consent agreement under division (B) below.
For purposes of this subchapter, use of the public utility easements and
rights-of-way includes the installation, construction, maintenance, repair or
operation of a telecommunications system within the public utility easements
and rights-of-way. In addition, a person providing local exchange service or
other local telecommunications services is using the public utility easements
and rights-of-way for purposes of this subchapter whether the person owns the
facilities in the public utility easements and rights-of-way outright or
obtains the use of or access to the facilities from a third party under lease,
contract, interconnection or wholesale for retail or other similar arrangement.
Failure to comply with the permit requirement of this section shall constitute
a violation of this subchapter. A person who violates this requirement shall
comply with all requirements of this subchapter applicable to a permittee and
shall pay the annual fee plus late payment charges as provided by §
115.25 for the time period in which the violator did not have a permit plus the
actual costs incurred by the township in enforcing this subchapter against the
person.
   (B)   Consent agreement. If a telecommunications provider negotiates a
consent agreement with the township under the provisions of division (A) above,
and the township determines that the consent agreement substantially satisfies
the obligations of a telecommunications provider under this subchapter, giving
due regard to any special circumstances involving the telecommunications
provider, the consent agreement will be deemed to satisfy the requirement of a
permit under this subchapter and under the Telecommunications Act. When a
consent agreement is no longer in effect, the telecommunications provider shall
be required to comply with all terms and conditions of this subchapter as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § V-2.03)
§ 115.24  PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application. A telecommunications provider shall apply for a permit
pursuant to this subchapter. The application shall be made on an application
form provided by the Building Department. Ten copies of the application shall
be filed with the Building Official.
   (B)   Required information. In addition to other information required by the
application form or otherwise required by the township or this subchapter, the
application shall include, without limitation, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and each person exercising
control over the applicant, and if the applicant or any person or persons
exercising control is not a natural person, each of its officers, directors,
stockholders beneficially holding more than 5% of the outstanding voting
shares, general partners and limited partners holding an equity interest of
more than 5%;
      (2)   Copies of the most recent financial statements of the applicant;
      (3)   A description of the applicant’s existing and proposed
telecommunications system and telecommunications services in the township, the
type of existing and proposed wires and other facilities in the public utility
easements and rights-of-way, and, a statement whether such facilities are owned
by the applicant, or if not owned by the applicant, a copy of the agreement or
legal instrument granting the applicant the right to the use of or access to
such facilities; and
      (4)   A map setting forth the specific location of the facilities in the
public utility easements and rights-of-way. The map shall identify the location
of above ground and underground facilities.
   (C)   Application fee. The application will be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee in the maximum amount allowed under Public Act 48 of
2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(4) or $500, whichever is greater. The non-
refundable application fee shall be designed to reimburse the township for the
costs of reviewing an application for a permit and issuance of a permit in
accordance with the procedures of this subchapter.
   (D)   Administrative completeness. An application shall not be deemed to be
filed for purposes of the 90-day permit application review period in § 251(3)
of the Telecommunications Act, unless and until the application is determined
by the Building Official to be administratively complete. A determination
whether the application is administratively complete shall be made by the
Building Official within ten business days after the application is received by
the township, and written notice shall be sent to the applicant. If the
Building Official determines that the application is not administratively
complete, the Building Official shall so advise the applicant in writing and
shall identify the items which must be furnished by the applicant for an
administratively complete application.
   (E)   Additional information. The Building Official may request an applicant
to submit additional information which the Building Official deems reasonably
necessary or relevant to review the application. The applicant shall comply
with all requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the Building Official. If the applicant fails to
provide the requested additional information by the deadline established by the
Building Official, the 90-day period for acting on the application under
division (G) below shall be extended by the number of days after the deadline
that the information was provided to the Building Official.
   (F)   Misleading statements. A person who provides information to the
township in connection with a permit application or any other matters under 
divisions (B) and (E) above which contains an untrue statement of a material
fact or omits a material fact necessary to make the information not misleading
shall be in violation of this subchapter, and shall be subject to all remedies
for violation of this subchapter and the township code including, without
limitation, denial of the requested action and permit revocation pursuant to §
115.32. Each day that a person fails to correct an untrue statement of a
material fact or the omission of a material fact necessary to make the
information not misleading shall constitute a separate violation of this
subchapter.
   (G)   Permit approval or denial. Within 75 days after the Building Official
determines that the application is administratively complete (subject to any
adjustments for delays in providing additional information as provided in
division (E) above), the Township Board shall hold a public hearing on the
application. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper in
general circulation not less than ten days before the public hearing. Notice of
the public hearing shall also be mailed to the applicant not less than ten days
before the public hearing. Any report or recommendation on the application
obtained or prepared by the Building Official shall be mailed to the applicant
not less than ten days before the public hearing. The applicant and any other
interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at such hearing
to submit comments on the application. Following the public hearing, the
Township Board shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the application
within 90 days after the Building Official determines that the application is
administratively complete pursuant to divisions (D) and (E) above, subject to
any adjustments for delays in providing additional information as provided in
divisions (D) and (E) above. The Township Board shall not unreasonably deny an
application for a permit. The failure of the township to comply strictly with
the procedural requirements of this section for the review of permit
applications shall not invalidate the decision or proceedings of the township.
   (H)   Conditions. The Township Board may impose conditions on a permit to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. Without limitation, these
conditions may include the posting of a bond by the telecommunications provider
in an amount which shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public utility easements and rights-of-way are returned to their original
condition during and after the telecommunications provider’s access and use.
   (I)   Modification.
      (1)   The Township Board may, in its discretion, grant a modification of
a specific requirement of §§
115.31,
115.32,
115.33 or
115.99 if the applicant requests such modification in its application for a
permit and if the applicant demonstrates that:
         (a)   There are unusual or remarkable circumstances which warrant a
modification;
         (b)   The modification will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare; and
         (c)   The modification will not impair the intent and purposes of this
subchapter and its several sections.
      (2)   The application shall describe the applicant’s request for a
modification and the reasons for the request with specificity. A modification
granted by the Township Board pursuant to this section shall expire upon the
expiration of the permit or earlier if so determined by the Township Board. A
modification shall modify only those requirements expressly set forth in the
approval of the Township Board and shall not modify any other provisions of
this subchapter. If a request for a modification is denied by the Township
Board, the telecommunications provider shall comply with all requirements of
this subchapter without exception.
   (J)   Waiver. The Township Board shall grant a waiver of any requirement of
this subchapter if an applicant or permittee requests a waiver and the Township
Board finds that unless waived the requirement will prohibit or have the effect
of prohibiting the ability of the applicant or permittee to provide any
telecommunications service within the meaning of § 253(a) of the Federal
Telecommunications Act, 47 U.S.C. § 253(a); the requirement is not within the
scope of any state or local authority referenced in § 253(c) of the Federal
Telecommunications Act, 47 U.S.C. § 253(c); and, the requirement is not
necessary to protect the public safety and welfare or safeguard the rights of
consumers. A request for a waiver shall be separately filed and is subject to
the requirements of divisions (A) and(C) above. A request for a waiver shall
include a detailed statement of the facts and circumstances forming the basis
for the request. If the request is made concurrent with an application for a
permit, the provisions of divisions (D) through (G) above shall apply to the
request, with the exception of the 75- and 90-day time periods set forth in
division (G) above. The Township Board may by resolution establish different or
additional procedures for conducting the public hearing and acting on the
request.
(Prior Code, § V-2.04)
§ 115.25  ANNUAL PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Establishment of annual fees; payment.
      (1)   (a)   In addition to the non-refundable application fee set forth
in division (B) below and any other fees for other permits or authorizations
required by the township code, the permittee shall pay an annual fee in an
amount established by ordinance or resolution of the Township Board. The annual
fee may be modified from time to time by ordinance or resolution of the
Township Board. The amount of the annual fee shall not exceed the fixed and
variable costs to the township in maintaining the public utility easements and
rights-of-way used by a telecommunications provider unless otherwise permitted
by law.
         (b)   The annual fee shall be payable quarterly as follows:
            1.   First quarter (January 1 through March 31): April 30;
            2.   Second quarter (April 1 through June 30): July 31;
            3.   Third quarter (July 1 through Sept. 30): October 31; and
            4.   Fourth quarter (October 1 through December 31): January 31.
      (2)   When a permit is issued during a calendar year, the annual fee
shall be prorated for the balance of the calendar year. In the event that a
quarterly payment is not paid when due, the permittee shall pay a late payment
charge of the greater of $100 or interest at the rate of 1% over the prime rate
then charged by NBD Bank and computed monthly. A person who violates this
subchapter by failing to obtain a permit shall pay the annual fee plus late
payment charges, as required by this section, for the time period in which the
violator did not have a permit plus the actual costs of the township in
enforcing this subchapter against the person.
   (B)   Option to pay annual fee based upon gross revenues. A permittee, at
its option, may elect to pay an annual fee of 1% of its annual gross revenues
as set forth below, in lieu of and in full satisfaction of the annual fee
established by the Township Board pursuant to this division (B). Permittees may
elect this annual fee option for administrative convenience in computing the
fee or for any other reason. Permittees electing this 1% of gross revenues
option shall pay not less than a minimum fee established by the Township Board
by ordinance or resolution.
      (1)   An election shall be made within 45 days of applying for a permit
or at least 60 days before the start of any calendar year after issuance of a
permit.
      (2)   Any election, once made, shall continue in effect until the end of
the next three calendar years, such that an election made in a permit
application in 1999 would continue in effect through the end of the year 2002.
      (3)   An election shall be made on a form provided by the township.
Copies of the form shall be submitted in the manner provided in §
115.24(A). The permittee shall supply all information requested on the form and
any additional information that the Building Official deems reasonably
necessary or relevant, including information on affiliates of the permittee
relating to the requirements of divisions (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7) and (C) below.
After providing notice and an opportunity to be heard the township may reject
or revoke an election for failure to comply with this division (B)(3).
      (4)   The annual fees shall be paid quarterly by the same due dates as
are set forth in division (A) above.
      (5)   An election shall apply to all affiliates of a permittee. In making
its election, a permittee shall expressly affirm that it has the authority to
bind, and does bind, its affiliates to the obligations of this  division (B)
including division (B)(6) below and the audit and records provisions of
divisions (B)(7) and (C) below.
      (6)   For purposes of this division (B), GROSS REVENUES is as defined in
Appendix A.
      (7)   If a permittee or any affiliate of a permittee refuses to pay the
fees due under this option or prohibit or effectively prohibit the township
from auditing the permittee or its affiliates under  division (C) below to
verify the accuracy of annual fees, then the township at its option may revoke
the election for all or any portion of the time period in question. The annual
fees computed under division (A) above shall then become immediately due and
payable, less a credit for any sums paid by the permittee or its affiliates,
plus the late payment charges set forth in division (A) above and any
additional sums due under the last sentence of division (C) below.
   (C)   Records. All records (including those of affiliates) reasonably
necessary to verify the accuracy of annual fees paid by the permittee under
either division (A) or (B) above shall be made available by a permittee at a
location within the township or within 20 miles of the township’s boundaries.
The township, by itself or in combination with other municipalities, reserves
the right to audit any permittee (or any affiliate of a permittee) to verify
the accuracy of annual fees paid or to be paid to the township. Any additional
amount due the township shall be paid within 30 days of submission of an
invoice. If the additional amount due exceeds 2% of the total annual fee which
the audit determines should have been paid for a calendar year, the permittee
shall pay the township’s costs in connection with the audit within 30 days of
submission of an invoice.
   (D)   Other payments. The non-refundable application fees and the annual
fees established pursuant to this subchapter shall be in addition to any tax,
charge, fee or payment due, or to become due, to the township by a permittee
under the township code or the laws of the state.
   (E)   Misleading statements. A person who provides information to the
township in connection with any matter under this section which contains an
untrue statement of a material fact or omits a material fact necessary to make
the information not misleading shall be in violation of this subchapter, and
shall be subject to all remedies for violation of this subchapter and the
township code including, without limitation, rejection or revocation of an
election under division (B) above and permit revocation pursuant to §
115.32. Each day that a person fails to correct an untrue statement of a
material fact or the omission of a material fact necessary to make the
information not misleading shall constitute a separate violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § V-2.05)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.26  DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Generally. A permit shall remain in effect until the fifth annual
anniversary date of the grant of the permit unless otherwise expired, revoked,
abandoned or renewed. Applications for renewal of permits shall be filed in the
same manner as original applications in §
115.24(A) and shall be filed with the township not less than 120 days before
the expiration of the permit. Renewals shall be for no longer than five years.
The township expressly reserves all rights to approve, approve with conditions
or deny applications for permit renewals pursuant to this subchapter and to
impose additional conditions on renewed permits.
   (B)   Expiration of permit. Unless the township grants an extension, a
permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance unless prior thereto the
permittee either:
      (1)   Commences construction, installation or operation of its
telecommunications system within the public utility easements and rights-of-way
authorized by the permit and diligently pursues completion of construction or
installation; or
      (2)   Commences use of the public utility easements and rights-of-way to
provide telecommunications services as authorized by the permit.
(Prior Code, § V-2.06)
§ 115.27  PERMIT TERMS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Non-exclusive; additional permits. A permit shall be non-exclusive.
The township expressly reserves the right to approve, at any time, additional
permits for access to and ongoing use of the public utility easements and
rights-of-way by telecommunications providers and to enter into agreements and
grant franchises for such access and use. The issuance of additional permits,
entry into agreements or grant of franchises shall not be deemed to amend,
modify, revoke or terminate the terms and conditions of any permits previously
issued to telecommunication providers.
   (B)   Expansion requests. A permit approved by the Township Board shall
authorize access to and ongoing use of the public utility easements and rights-
of-way described in the permit, subject to compliance with the conditions of
the permit, the requirements of this subchapter and any other applicable
requirements of the township code or applicable state and federal law. The
permittee shall not use any public utility easements and rights-of-way not
expressly authorized by the permit. Any use of the public utility easements and
rights-of-way (including any installation, construction, maintenance, repair or
operation of a telecommunication system within the public utility easements and
rights-of-way) to provide telecommunications services shall be performed only
as authorized by the permit. A permittee may, however, expand its
telecommunications system to public utility easements and rights-of-way not
described in its permit by obtaining approval of an amended permit from the
township. The approval may be granted in writing by the Building Official in
response to a written request from the permittee for expansion to specific
portions of named public utility easements and rights-of-way. The Township
Board may establish by resolution a non-refundable application fee for such a
request. The Building Official may grant, grant with conditions or deny the
request. The Building Official shall not unreasonably deny any request. A
denial of any request may be appealed to the Township Board which shall make
the final decision. Any expansion into additional public utility easements and
rights-of-way shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the original
permit and this subchapter including, without limitation, the application of
the annual fee to the expanded public utility easements and rights-of-way used
by the permittee.
   (C)   Construction permit. A permittee shall not commence construction upon,
over, across or under the public utility easements and rights-of-way in the
township without first obtaining any construction permit as may be required
under the township administered and enforced State Construction Code.
   (D)   Lease or use of facilities; overlashing. A permittee shall not lease,
sublease, license or otherwise allow the use of wires, conduit, poles or
facilities in the public utility easements and rights-of-way by a person who is
required to obtain a permit under §
115.23 or is required by law to obtain the township’s permission or consent to
transact local business in the township, and who lacks such permit, permission
or consent. A permittee shall not allow the property of a third party or non-
telecommunications system wires or any other facilities to be overlashed,
affixed or attached to any portion of a permittee’s telecommunications system;
or allow other actions with a similar result without the written consent of the
Building Official.
   (E)   “As-built” maps. Without expense to the township, a permittee shall
provide the township with “as-built” maps, records and plans showing its
telecommunications system or portions thereof within the township, including
those of affiliates used by the permittee, and maps and descriptive information
of facilities of other persons used by the permittee. The Building Official may
waive part or all of this requirement if satisfactory records of the location
of the telecommunications system were previously provided to the township. The
“as-built” maps, records and plans shall be provided within 30 days of the
completion of the telecommunications system and any extensions, additions or
modifications to the telecommunications system. In addition to the foregoing, a
permittee, without expense to the township, shall, upon 48 hours’ notice, give
the township access to all “as-built” maps, records, plans and specifications
showing its telecommunications system or portions thereof within the township.
Upon request by the township, a permittee shall inform the township as soon as
possible (but no more than one business day after the request) of any changes
from previously supplied maps, records or plans and shall mark up maps provided
by the township so as to show the location of its telecommunications system.
   (F)   No recourse. A permittee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the
township for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of the failure of
the township to have the authority to grant all or any part of a permit or the
authority to grant permission to use all or part of the public utility
easements and rights-of-way.
   (G)   No inducement. By acceptance of a permit, a permittee acknowledges
that it has not been induced to obtain the permit by any understanding or
promise or other statement, whether verbal or written, by or on behalf of the
township or by any third person concerning any term or condition of a permit
not expressed in this subchapter.
   (H)   Acceptance of terms and conditions. The permittee acknowledges by the
acceptance of a permit that it has carefully read its terms and conditions and
does accept all of the terms and conditions.
   (I)   No priority. A permit does not establish any priority of use of the
public utility easements and rights-of-way by a permittee over any present or
future permittees or parties having agreements with the township or franchises
for such use. In the event of any dispute as to the priority of use of the
public utility easements and rights-of-way, the first priority shall be to the
public generally, the second priority to the township, the third priority to
the state and its political subdivisions in the performance of their various
functions, and thereafter as between permittees, other permit holders, parties
having agreements with the township, and franchisees, as determined by the
township in the exercise of its powers, including the police power and other
powers reserved to and conferred on it by the state.
   (J)   Future use by township. A permittee acknowledges, by accepting a
permit, that it obtains no rights to or further use of the public utility
easements and rights-of-way other than those expressly granted herein. Each
permittee acknowledges and accepts as its own risk that the township may make
use in the future of the public utility easements and rights-of-way which a
permittee is using or in which a permittee’s telecommunications system is
located in a manner inconsistent with the permittee’s use of the public utility
easements and rights-of-way and that in such event the permittee will not be
entitled to compensation from the township.
   (K)   Expiration of permit. Unless the township grants an extension, a
permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance unless prior thereto the
permittee either:
      (1)   Commences construction, installation or operation of its
telecommunications system within the public utility easements and rights-of-way
authorized by the permit and diligently pursues completion of construction or
installation; or
      (2)   Commences use of the public utility easements and rights-of-way to
provide telecommunications services as authorized by the permit.
(Prior Code, § V-2.07)
§ 115.28  USE OF PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY BY PERMITTEE.
   (A)   No burden on public utility easements and rights-of-way. A permittee
and its contractors and subcontractors and a permittee’s telecommunications
system shall not unduly burden or interfere with the present or future use of
any of the public utility easements and rights-of-way within the township. A
permittee shall erect and maintain its telecommunications system so as to cause
minimum interference with the use of the public utility easements and rights-
of-way and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners. The
permittee’s cables and wires shall be suspended or buried so as to not endanger
or injure persons or property in the public utility easements and rights-of-
way. If the township in its reasonable judgment determines that any portion of
the telecommunications system constitutes an undue burden or interference, the
permittee at its sole cost and expense shall modify its telecommunications
systems or take other actions as the township may determine are in the public
interest to remove or alleviate the burden, and the permittee shall do so
within the time period established by the township.
   (B)   Restoration of property. A permittee and its contractors and
subcontractors shall immediately restore, at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense and in a manner approved by the township, any portion of the public
utility easements and rights-of-way that is in any way disturbed, damaged, or
injured by the construction, operation, maintenance or removal of the
telecommunications system to as good or better condition than that which
existed prior to the disturbance. In the event that the permittee, its
contractors or subcontractors fail to do so within the time specified by the
township, the township shall be entitled to complete the work and the permittee
shall reimburse the township for the costs of doing so.
   (C)   Easements. Any easements over or under private property necessary for
the construction or operation of a telecommunications system shall be secured
by the permittee. Any use or intrusion on private property without an easement
or other instrument evidencing permission of the property owner shall
constitute a trespass by the permittee and a violation of this subchapter. Any
easements over or under property owned by the township other than the public
utility easements and rights-of-way shall be separately negotiated with the
township.
   (D)   Tree trimming. A permittee may, with the permission of the county and
state, trim trees upon and overhanging the public utility easements and rights-
of-way so as to prevent the branches of the trees from coming into contact with
its telecommunications system. The permittee shall minimize the trimming of
trees to trimming only those trees that are essential to maintain the integrity
of its telecommunications system. No trimming shall be done in the public
utility easements and rights-of-way without previously informing the township.
   (E)   Pavement cut coordination/additional fees.
      (1)   A permittee shall coordinate all construction work in the public
utility easements and rights-of-way with the township’s program for sidewalk
and/or street construction, rebuilding, resurfacing and repair. A permittee
shall meet with the official of the township primarily responsible for the
public utility easements and rights-of-way at least twice per year to this end.
The goals of the coordination shall be to require a permittee to conduct all
work in the public utility easements and rights-of-way in conjunction with or
immediately prior to any sidewalk or street construction or repair planned by
the township, and to prevent the public utility easements and rights-of-way
from being disturbed by a permittee for a period of years after the
construction or repair.
      (2)   In addition to any other fees or payments required by this
subchapter, a permittee shall pay to the township the sum of $1,250 for each 50
feet cut into or excavation of any public utility easements and rights-of-way,
or portion thereof, which was subject to construction or repair within 18
months prior to the cut or excavation. This fee is in addition to and not in
lieu of the obligation to restore the public utility easements and rights-of-
way and is in addition to all other fees required by this subchapter or the
township code.
   (F)   Marking. A permittee shall mark any installations of its
telecommunications system which occur after the effective date of this
subchapter as follows.
      (1)   Aerial portions of its telecommunications system shall be marked
with a marker on its lines on alternate poles which shall state the permittee’s
name and provide a toll-free number to call for assistance.
      (2)   Direct buried underground portions of its telecommunications system
shall have:
         (a)   A conducting wire placed in the ground at least several inches
above the permittee’s cable (if the cable is non-conductive);
         (b)   At least several inches above that a continuous colored tape
with the permittee’s name and a toll-free phone number and a statement to the
effect that there is buried cable beneath; and
         (c)   Stakes or other appropriate above-ground markers with the
permittee’s name and a toll-free number indicating that there is buried
telephone cable below.
      (3)   Portions of its telecommunications system located in conduit,
including facilities of others used by a permittee, shall be marked at each
manhole with the permittee’s name and toll-free telephone number to call for
assistance.
   (G)   Compliance with laws. A permittee shall comply with all laws,
statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations regarding the installation,
construction, ownership and use of its telecommunications system, whether
federal, state or local, now in force or which hereafter may be promulgated
(including, without limitation, any ordinance requiring the installation of
additional conduit when a permittee installs underground conduit for its
telecommunications system). Before any installation is commenced, the permittee
shall secure all necessary permits, licenses and approvals from all appropriate
departments, agencies, boards or commissions of the township or other
governmental entity as may be required by law, including, without limitation,
all utility line permits and highway permits. A permittee shall comply in all
respects with applicable codes and industry standards, including but not
limited to the National Electrical Safety Code (latest edition) and the
National Electric Code (latest edition). A permittee shall comply with all
zoning and land use ordinances and historic preservation ordinances as may
exist or may hereafter be amended.
   (H)   Street vacation. If the township vacates or consents to the vacation
of public utility easements and rights-of-way within its jurisdiction, and the
vacation necessitates the removal and relocation of a permittee’s facilities in
the vacated right-of-way, the permittee shall, as a condition of the permit,
consent to the vacation and move its facilities at its sole cost and expense
when ordered to do so by the township or a court of competent jurisdiction. The
permittee shall relocate its facilities to such alternate route as the
township, acting reasonably and in good faith, shall designate.
   (I)   Relocation. If the township requests a permittee to relocate, protect,
support, disconnect, place underground or remove its facilities because of
street or utility work, or other public projects, the permittee shall relocate,
protect, support, disconnect, place underground or remove its facilities, at
its sole cost and expense, to such alternate route as the township, acting
reasonably and in good faith, shall designate. The work shall be completed
within the time period designated by the township.
   (J)   Public emergency. The township shall have the right to sever, disrupt,
dig-up or otherwise destroy facilities of a permittee, without any prior
notice, if the action is deemed necessary by the Supervisor, Police Chief or
Fire Chief or their designees because of a public emergency. PUBLIC EMERGENCY
shall be any condition which, in the opinion of any of the officials named,
poses an immediate threat to life, health or property caused by any natural or
human-made disaster, including, but not limited to, storms, floods, fire,
accidents, explosions, major watermain breaks, hazardous material spills and
the like. The permittee shall be responsible for repair at its sole cost and
expense of any of its facilities damaged pursuant to any action taken by the
township.
   (K)   Miss dig. If eligible to join, a permittee shall subscribe to and be a
member of “MISS DIG,” the association of utilities formed pursuant to Public
Act 53 of 1974, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 460.721 et seq., and shall
conduct its business in conformance with the statutory provisions and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (L)   Use of existing facilities; undergrounding. A permittee shall utilize
existing poles, conduits and other facilities wherever practicable, and shall
not construct or install any new, different or additional poles or other
facilities unless expressly authorized by the permit. Where utility wiring is
or is required to be located underground, either at the time of initial
construction or subsequent thereto, a permittee’s telecommunications system
shall also be located underground unless otherwise expressly authorized by the
permit. All undergrounding shall be at the sole cost and expense of the
permittee.
   (M)   Underground relocation. If a permittee has its facilities on poles of
Detroit Edison or another public utility company and Detroit Edison or other
public utility company relocates its facilities underground, the permittee
shall relocate its facilities underground in the same location at no cost to
the township or its residents.
   (N)   Pole/conduit license agreement; notification. If a permittee forfeits
or otherwise loses its rights under a pole/conduit license agreement with
Detroit Edison or other entity, then permittee shall notify the Building
Official in writing within 30 days.
   (O)   Identification. All personnel of a permittee and its contractors or
subcontractors who have as part of their normal duties contact with the general
public shall wear on their clothing a clearly visible identification card
bearing their name and photograph. A permittee shall account for all
identification cards at all times. Every service vehicle of a permittee and its
contractors or subcontractors shall be clearly identified as to the public with
the permittee’s name.
   (P)   9-1-1 emergency service. As a condition of a permit, a permittee
providing local exchange service shall arrange for the provision of 9-1-
1 service within the township in accordance with the provisions of the
applicable 9-1-1 service plan and the rules and orders of the State Public
Service Commission.
(Prior Code, § V-2.08)
§ 115.29  NO TOWNSHIP LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Township not liable. The township, and its officers, agents, elected
or appointed officials, employees, departments, boards and commissions, shall
not be liable to a permittee for any claims, damages or costs arising out of
permittee’s installation and operation of a permittee’s telecommunications
system or the provision of telecommunications services, or for any damages
arising out of a permittee’s use of the public utility easements and rights-of-
way, nor for granting a permit therefor.
   (B)   Indemnification. As a condition of a permit, a permittee shall defend,
indemnify, protect and hold harmless the township, its officers, agents,
employees, elected and appointed officials, departments, boards and commissions
from any and all claims, losses, liabilities, causes of action, demands,
judgments, decrees, proceedings and expenses of any nature (including, without
limitation, attorney fees) arising out of or resulting from the acts or
omissions of the permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors,
successors or assigns, but only to the extent of the fault of the permittee,
its officers, agents, employees, contractors, successors or assigns.
(Prior Code, § V-2.09)
§ 115.30  INSURANCE.
   (A)   A permittee shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect for the
duration of a permit the following insurance covering all insurable risks
associated with its ownership or use of its telecommunications system:
      (1)   A comprehensive general liability insurance policy, including
completed operations liability, independent contractors liability, contractual
liability coverage and coverage for property damage from perils of explosion,
collapse or damage to underground utilities, commonly known as XCU coverage, in
an amount not less than $10,000,000;
      (2)   An automobile liability insurance policy covering any vehicles used
in connection with its activities under its permit in an amount not less than
$1,000,000; and
      (3)   Worker’s compensation and employer’s liability insurance with
statutory limits.
   (B)   The township shall be named as an additional insured in all applicable
policies. All insurance policies shall provide that they shall not be canceled
or modified unless 30 days’ prior written notice is given to the township. A
permittee shall provide the township with a certificate of insurance evidencing
the coverage as a condition of issuance of the permit and shall maintain on
file with the township a current certificate. All insurance shall be issued by
insurance carriers licensed to do business by the state or by surplus line
carriers on the State Insurance Commission approved list of companies qualified
to do business in the state. All insurance and surplus line carriers shall be
rated A+ or better by A.M. Best Company.
   (C)   Each policy which is to be endorsed to add the township as an
additional insured hereunder, shall contain cross-liability wording, as
follows: “In the event of a claim being made hereunder by one insured for which
another insured is or may be liable, then this policy shall cover the insured
against whom a claim is or may be made in the same manner as if separate
policies had been issued to each insured hereunder.”
   (D)   If the insurance policies required by this section are written with
deductibles in excess of $50,000, the deductibles shall be approved in advance
by the township. A permittee agrees to indemnify and save harmless the township
from and against the payment of any deductible and from the payment of any
premium on any insurance policy required to be furnished by this subchapter.
   (E)   The permittee shall require that its contractors and subcontractors
working in public utility easements and rights-of-way carry in full force and
effect worker’s compensation and employer liability, comprehensive general
liability and automobile liability insurance coverages of the types which
permittee is required to obtain under this section with appropriate limits of
coverage.
   (F)   The permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance with
respect to the township, its officers, agents, employees, elected and appointed
officials, departments, boards and commissions. Any insurance or self-insurance
maintained by any of them shall be in excess of the permittee’s insurance and
shall not contribute to it.
(Prior Code, § V-2.10)
§ 115.31  NO ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF CONTROL WITHOUT TOWNSHIP CONSENT.
   A permittee shall not assign or transfer a permit or any of its rights under
a permit, in whole or in part, voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of
law, including by merger or consolidation or by other means, nor shall there be
a transfer of control of a permittee or its business, without the prior written
consent of the township, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. The
permittee shall reimburse the township for reasonable, actual costs incurred in
the review of a request by the permittee for consent to an assignment or
transfer of the permit or a transfer of control of a permittee or its business.
Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the permittee may
grant a security interest in its rights under a permit in favor of a third
party without first obtaining the consent of the township. If a permit or any
rights thereunder is assigned or transferred in whole or in part with the
approval of the township, the terms and conditions of the permit and of this
subchapter shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the permittee.
(Prior Code, § V-2.11)
§ 115.32  REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to
the township, the township reserves as an additional separate and distinct
remedy the right to revoke a permit and all rights and privileges of a
permittee in any of the following events or for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   A permittee fails after 30 days prior written notice to comply with
any of the provisions of the permit or this subchapter (except §
115.24(F));
      (2)   A permittee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its
debts, or is adjudged bankrupt;
      (3)   All or part of a permittee’s facilities are sold under an
instrument to secure a debt and are not redeemed by the permittee within 90
days from the sale;
      (4)   A permittee violates §
115.24(F) or otherwise attempts to or does practice any fraud or deceit in its
conduct or relations with the township;
      (5)   The township condemns all of the property of a permittee within the
township by the lawful exercise of eminent domain;
      (6)   A permittee abandons its telecommunication system or fails to seek
renewal of its permit;
      (7)   A permittee fails to pay any fines due for violations of this
subchapter; or
      (8)   A permittee fails to pay any civil fines imposed by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such as pursuant to an ordinance providing for civil
infractions.
   (B)   No revocation, except for reason of condemnation, shall be effective
unless the Township Board shall have adopted a resolution setting forth the
reason for the revocation and the effective date, which resolution shall not be
adopted without 30 days prior notice to the permittee and a hearing at which
the permittee receives due process as required by law.
(Prior Code, § V-2.12)
§ 115.33  REMOVAL.
   (A)   Removal; underground. Upon revocation of a permit, or upon expiration
of a permit if the permit is not renewed, the permittee may remove any
underground cable from the public utility easements and rights-of-way which has
been installed in a manner that it can be removed without trenching or other
opening of the streets along the extension of cable to be removed. Except as
otherwise provided, the permittee shall not remove any underground cable or
conduit which requires trenching or other opening of the public utility
easements and rights-of-way along the extension of cable to be removed. The
permittee shall remove, at its sole cost and expense, any underground cable or
conduit which is ordered to be removed by the township based upon a
determination, in the sole discretion of the township, that removal is required
in order to eliminate or prevent a hazardous condition or promote future
utilization of the streets for public purposes. Any order by the township to
remove cable or conduit shall be mailed to the permittee not later than 30
calendar days following the date of revocation or expiration of the permit. A
permittee shall file written notice with the Township Clerk not later than 30
calendar days following the date of expiration or termination of the permit of
its intention to remove cable and a schedule for removal by location. The
schedule and timing of removal shall be subject to approval and regulation by
the township. Removal shall be completed not later than 12 months following the
date of revocation or expiration of the permit. Underground cable and conduit
in the public utility easements and rights-of-way which is not removed within
the time period shall be deemed abandoned and, at the option of the township,
title shall be vested in the township. For purposes of this division (A), CABLE
means any wire, coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, feed wire or pull wire.
   (B)   Removal; above ground. Upon revocation of a permit, or upon expiration
of a permit if the permit is not renewed, a permittee, at its sole cost and
expense, shall, unless relieved of the obligation by the township, remove from
the public utility easements and rights-of-way all above ground elements of its
telecommunication system, including, but not limited to, poles, pedestal
mounted terminal boxes, and lines attached to or suspended from poles.
   (C)   Permits; restoration; completion. A permittee shall apply for and
obtain encroachment permits, licenses, authorizations or other approvals and
pay the fees and deposit the security as required by applicable laws or
ordinances of the township, shall conduct and complete the work of removal in
compliance with all applicable laws or ordinances and shall restore the public
utility easements and rights-of-way to the same condition they were in before
the work of removal commenced.
(Prior Code, § V-2.13)
§ 115.34  OTHER PROVISIONS NOT WAIVED.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as a waiver of any
ordinances, charter provisions, codes, or regulations of the township or the
township’s right to require the permittee or persons utilizing the
telecommunication system or telecommunications services to secure appropriate
permits or authorization for such use.
   (B)   The township fully reserves its police powers to ensure and protect
the public health, safety, and welfare and fully reserves its authority and
power to amend this subchapter at any time. The terms and conditions of any
permit shall be subject to compliance with any future amendments of this
subchapter. The township fully reserves its right to exercise the reasonable
control of the public utility easements and rights-of-way pursuant to Article
VII, § 29 of the 1963 Michigan Constitution.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter or any permit shall limit any right the
township may have to acquire by eminent domain any property of a
telecommunications provider.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter or any permit shall limit the authority of
the township to impose a tax, fee or other assessment of any kind on any
person. A telecommunications provider shall pay all fees necessary to obtain
all federal, state and local licenses, permits and authorizations required for
the construction, installation, maintenance or operation of its
telecommunications system within the public utility easements and rights-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § V-2.14)
§ 115.35  AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee is hereby designated as
the authorized township official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
or municipal civil infraction violation notices for violations under this
subchapter as provided by this code.
(Prior Code, § V-2.15)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any
other legal entity who violates the provisions of §§
115.20 through
115.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § V-2.16)
APPENDIX A:  GROSS REVENUES
   For the purpose of §
115.25(B), GROSS REVENUES means all amounts earned, received or accrued by a
permittee and its affiliates in whatever form and from all sources which are in
connection with or attributable to the permittee’s telecommunications system in
township or to the permittee’s or its affiliates’ provision of
telecommunications services within the township.
   (A)   Gross revenues shall include, but not be limited to, all revenues from
or attributable to customers, other carriers, or third parties whether for
services, equipment, directories, publications or otherwise. It shall include
revenues of the types generally described in the Revenue Accounts of the FCC
Uniform System of Accounts for telecommunications companies as in effect on
October 31, 1996, 47 C.F.R. § 32 Subpart D, whether or not the permittee or its
affiliates are subject to such System of Accounts, including Accounts 4999
through 5302 and any cross-referenced accounts or sub-accounts which may be
established by permittee or its affiliates relating to the preceding account
numbers. Gross revenues shall include all services provided by a permittee or
its affiliates, whether or not subject to regulation at the federal, state or
local level. For transactions with affiliates gross revenues shall be computed
in accordance with the principles set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 32.27 as in effect
on October 31, 1996, including in particular 47 C.F.R. § 32.27(d), and
otherwise at the fair market rate.
   (B)   (1)   Gross revenues shall include all amounts received, earned or
accrued during a period regardless of whether:
         (a)   Received or not in the case of amounts earned or accrued;
         (b)   The amounts are to be paid in cash, in trade or by means of some
other benefit to the permittee or its affiliates;
         (c)   The goods or services with which the revenue is associated are
provided at cost or the revenue amount can be matched against an equivalent
expenditure;
         (d)   The amounts are characterized, separately identified or
accounted as being for goods, services or fees to be paid to units of
government or government agencies; or
         (e)   The amounts are initially recorded or received by the permittee
or by an affiliate.
      (2)   However, gross revenues shall exclude uncollectible accounts during
the period, computed on a fair basis consistently applied.
   (C)   Gross revenues shall be computed at the level where first received
from an entity not in any way affiliated with the permittee and shall not be
net of:
      (1)   Any operating expense;
      (2)   Any accrual, including without limitation, any accrual for
commissions; or
      (3)   Any other expenditure.
   (D)   Revenues from customers shall be allocated to the township based upon
whether or not the location being provided service pursuant to the permit is
located in the township and not by any other allocation method. Revenues from
non-switched telecommunications services shall be allocated to the township as
set forth in Appendix A-1.
   (E)   Revenues whose source cannot be identified with a specific customer or
township shall be allocated to the township based upon the percentage of
customers in the township compared to the number of customers served by that
portion of permittee’s telecommunications system (including portions outside
the township) to which the revenues are reasonably attributable.
(Prior Code, Chapter V, App. A)
APPENDIX A-1:  ALLOCATION OF REVENUE FROM NON-SWITCHED TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SERVICES
   Gross revenues from non-switched telecommunications services shall be
allocated to the township as follows.
   (A)   For purposes of this Appendix A-1, NON-SWITCHED TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SERVICES means the two-way transmission of high speed digital voice, data and
(for such applications as teleconferencing) video signals:
      (1)   To carry interexchange traffic between long distance carrier
points-of-presence;
      (2)   To interconnect user locations to interexchange carrier points-of-
presence; and
      (3)   To interconnect user locations.
   (B)   If all the locations of a given customer receiving service from the
permittee are in the township, gross revenues shall include all revenues
received from or imputed to that customer.
   (C)   If any but not all of the locations of a given customer receiving
service from the permittee are in the township, the revenues attributable to
the township shall be computed separately for each service taken by the
customer. For each separate service taken, the revenues attributable to the
township are all revenues received from or imputed to that service times a
fraction whose numerator is the number of locations of the customer within the
township taking that service and whose denominator is all the customer’s
locations taking that service.
   (D)   If (such as with an interexchange carrier which contracts for capacity
from the permittee so as to connect with its customers through the permittee’s
telecommunications system) a customer uses the permittee’s telecommunications
system to connect to third parties, such third parties shall be treated as
customers (or customer locations, as the case may be) for purposes of this
provision and revenue attribution thereunder. INTEREXCHANGE CARRIER means a
person who provides interexchange telecommunications service, commonly called a
long distance carrier (Sprint, MCI and AT&T are examples), and typically deemed
a carrier under the Federal Communications Act of 1934 or amendments thereto.
   (E)   The different services taken by customers shall correspond with the
classes of service offered by the permittee.
   (F)   Examples of the preceding computations are as follows:
Example 1:
   A customer leases a 56 kbps data channel for $5,000/month which serves/may
be accessed by one customer location each in Municipality A, Municipality B and
Municipality C. $l,666/month is gross revenues from Municipality A (1/3 times
$5,000).
Example 2:
   A customer leases three T-1 telephone lines @ $400/month to connect to MCI.
Gross revenues from Municipality A are computed separately for each line as
follows:
   The first connects a location in Municipality B to an MCI point of presence
in Municipality A. $200/month is the gross revenues from Municipality A for
this service (one-half times $400).
   The second connects a location in Municipality A to the same MCI point of
presence. All $400 is gross revenues from Municipality A for this service.
   The third connects a location in Municipality C to a different MCI point of
presence, located in Municipality D. There are no gross revenues from
Municipality A for this service (but there would be gross revenues of $200 each
in Municipality C and Municipality D).
Example 3:
   Sprint, an interexchange (long distance) carrier, leases a large amount of
capacity from the permittee for $50,000/month so that persons desiring to use
its services may connect with it directly and not have to go through the local
Ameritech central office. Sixteen customers take advantage of this service,
comprising 42 locations, of which 28 locations are in Municipality A. Sprint’s
point of presence is also in Municipality A.
   $41,667 is gross revenues from Municipality A as follows:
      $25,000 (half of the $50,000) is included because all the circuits
(wherever the customer is located) connect to the point of presence in
Municipality A, such as, each customer circuit is composed of two locations
(one at the customer, one at Sprint), one of which is in Municipality A.
      $16,667 (28/42 of $25,000) because the other half of the $50,000 is
attributable to the specific customer locations being connected to Sprint, of
which 28 out of 42 are in Municipality A.
(Prior Code, Chapter V, App. A-1)
CHAPTER 116:  GARAGE SALES REGULATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Restrictions on number; duration
   
116.04   Sales limitations
   
116.05   Nuisance
   
116.06   Signs
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq.
§ 116.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate and control the holding of
garage sales, as they may become nuisances and safety hazards if not so
regulated, and so that residential areas do not become commercialized through a
proliferation of garage sales and similar commercial activity.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.00)
§ 116.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. A sale of used household effects, appliances, clothing, china,
glassware and other items by a person from his or her residence by means of a
display of items in the yard, garage, patio, parking area or other like place
in, around or near the residence. It shall not mean the sale of a single
automobile by means of a “For Sale” sign in the window of the vehicle parked
near a residence.
   SALESPERSON’S OR FREE SAMPLES. Items which were packaged and designed to
introduce products to consumers and which were distributed by salespeople or
otherwise without charge.
   WHOLESALE. Sales in bulk or individually to dealers or persons who intend to
resell the items.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.01)
§ 116.03  RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER; DURATION.
   (A)   No person shall have more than two garage sales at any residence
during a consecutive 12-month period without the express approval of the
Township Board.
   (B)   No garage sale may last more than 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.02)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04  SALES LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No wholesale sales shall be made at any garage sale.
   (B)   No salesperson’s or free samples or the like shall be sold at any
garage sale.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.03)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05  NUISANCE.
   (A)   No garage sale shall continue later than one-half hour after sunset
nor begin prior to 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   No garage sale shall be situated so as to obstruct traffic nor shall
any garage sale patrons park their vehicles so as to obstruct traffic.
   (C)   Excessive noise emanating from the area of any garage sale is
expressly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.04)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06  SIGNS.
   Signs advertising the garage sale may be posted, subject to the following.
   (A)   They shall not be posted more than seven days prior to the sale and
must be removed within two days after the sale.
   (B)   They shall be posted at no greater distance than the entrance to the
subdivision where the sale is being held and the person posting signs shall
obtain permission from the owner of the property upon which the sign is
located.
   (C)   No garage sale sign is to exceed one square foot in area and, in the
case of a ground-mounted sign, the height may not exceed four feet.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.05)  Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and may be fined
and assessed costs and otherwise penalized as provided in Public Act 236 of
1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq., but a minimum fine shall
be imposed as follows:
   (A)   First offense: $50; and
   (B)   Second offense and subsequent offenses: $100.
(Prior Code, § VII-3.06)
CHAPTER 117:  MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Title
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   No marijuana establishments
   
117.04   Savings clause
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Charter Township of
Plymouth Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments Ordinance”.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 21, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 117.02  DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 21, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 117.03  NO MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The township hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments within the
boundaries of the township pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 21, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   The repeal or amendment herein shall not abrogate or affect any offense or
act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any pending
litigation or prosecution of any right established or occurring prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 21, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes allows or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of
the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
township to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper
remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the township incurs in connection with the
municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the township may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the township, by a peace officer or by such other person
(s) as designated by the Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 21, passed 1-22-2019)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CRIMINAL CODE
      
131.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
132.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130:  CRIMINAL CODE
Section
   
130.01   Criminal Code adopted by reference
   
130.02   Citations
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq.
§ 130.01  CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The township, pursuant to and as allowed by Public Act 359 of 1947, §
23, being M.C.L.A. § 42.23, adopts by reference the following provisions of the
State Penal Code, Public Act 328 of Public Acts of 1931, as amended, the
Fraudulent Access to Computers, Computer Systems and Computer Networks Act,
Public Act 53 of 1979, as amended, and the Careless, Reckless or Negligent Use
of Firearms Act, Act 45 of 1952, as amended. The following statutes are in
addition to, and not a replacement of, the state law provisions already adopted
by the township and codified in this section: M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7404, 750.15,
750.27, 750.28, 750.33(a), 750.38, 750.40,750.49, 750.50, 750.50a, 750.51,
750.57, 750.66, 750.77, 750.81, 750.95a, 750.103, 750.108, 750.109a, 750.115,
750.120a, 750.120b, 750.131, 750.135a, 750.136b(1) and (8-10), 750.137, 750.141
through 750.145, 750.145a through 750.145f, 750.157s; 750.157w, 750.168(1),
750.169, 750.170, 750.174(1-2), 750.174a(2), 750.181(1-2), 750.184, 750.197a,
750.199, 750.204b, 750.204c, 750.214, 750.215, 750.216, 750.216a, 750.216b,
750.217a, 750.217g, 750.217h, 750.218(2), 750.219a(2)(a), 750.221, 750.223(1),
750.227d, 750.229, 750.231c, 750.232a(1), 750.233, 750.234, 750.234d, 750.234e,
750.234f, 750.235, 750.235a, 750.237(1-2), 750.240, 750.241, 750.282, 750.291,
750.292, 750.335, 750.352, 750.355, 750.356, 750.356d, 750.364, 750.368(1-3),
750.369, 750.370, 750.377a(1)(d), 750.380(5), 750.381, 750.382, 750.383,
750.384, 750.385, 750.387, 750.388, 750.390, 750.391, 750.394 through 750.396,
750.398, 750.400, 750.411a, 750.411d, 750.411g, 750.411h, 750.414a, 750.415,
750.416, 750.419, 750.421b, 750.421c, 750.448, 750.449a through 750.451,
750.462, 750.463, 750.464a, 750.465, 750.467, 750.468, 750.469, 750.471,
750.473, 750.477a, 750.479c, 750.481, 750.483, 750.485, 750.487, 750.489,
750.490a, 750.492a(1)(d), 750.493, 750.493a, 750.493b, 750.493c, 750.493d,
750.493e, 750.495, 750.495a(1), 750.497, 750.498, 750.498b(1), 750.502c,
750.507, 750.507b, 750.510, 750.518, 750.533, 750.534, 750.535(1) and (5),
750.536a, 750.539b, 750.540a, 750.540b, 750.540e, 750.540f(1), 750.540g(1)(a),
750.552, 750.552a, 750.556, 750.562, 750.563, 750.564, 750.565, 750.566,
752.791, 752.794, 752.797(1)(a), 752.861, 752.862 and 752.863a.
   (B)   State law misdemeanor violations. Every act prohibited by state law as
a misdemeanor is hereby prohibited, and whoever violates the provisions of this
section within the township shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by the
same penalty provided by state law, except that the penalty shall, in no case,
exceed a fine of $500 or imprisonment for 93 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.00)  (Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 130.02  CITATIONS.
   The Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated section number shall be used as the
section number for purposes of issuing a citation for violation of the State
Penal Code and the Curfew for Children Act sections adopted hereby.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.02)
CHAPTER 131:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
131.01   Larceny
   
131.02   Unauthorized practice of law
   
131.03   Attempts
   
131.04   Accessorial liability
   
131.05   Obstructing or hindering a police officer
   
131.06   Hunting; prohibition
   
131.07   Possession and/or use of controlled substances and/or chemical agent
   
131.08   Possession or use of tobacco, vapor products or alternative nicotine
products
   
131.09   Open house parties
   
131.10   Prostitution
   
131.11   Animal cruelty
   
131.12   Fraudulent schemes
   
131.13   Breach of peace
   
131.14   Public intoxication
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq. and Public Act 451       of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq.
§ 131.01  LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of larceny by
stealing, converting or wrongfully withholding the property of another,
including, but not limited to: chattels or services; any bank note, bank bill,
bond, promissory note, due bill, bill of exchange or other bill, draft, order
or certificate; any book of accounts for or concerning money or goods due or to
become due or to be delivered; any deed or writing containing a conveyance of
land; any other valuable contract in force; any receipt, release or defeasance;
or any writ, process or public record.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.03)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  UNAUTHORIZED PRACTICE OF LAW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to practice law or to engage in the law
business or in any manner whatsoever to lead others to believe that he or she
is authorized to practice law or to engage in the law business or in any manner
whatsoever to represent or designate himself or herself as an attorney and
counselor, attorney at law or lawyer unless the person so doing is regularly
licensed and authorized to practice law in this state. This section does not
apply to a person who is duly licensed and authorized to practice law in
another state while temporarily in this state and engaged in a particular
matter.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.04)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  ATTEMPTS.
   Any person who shall attempt to commit an offense prohibited by law and in
such attempt shall do an act toward the commission of the offense but shall
fail in the perpetration or shall be intercepted or prevented in the execution
of the same shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than 45 days or by a fine of not more than $250 or by
both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.05)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  ACCESSORIAL LIABILITY.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an offense, whether he or she
directly commits the act constituting the offense or procures, counsels, aids
or abets in its commission, may hereafter be prosecuted, indicted, tried and,
on conviction, shall be punished as if he or she had directly committed the
offense.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.06)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  OBSTRUCTING OR HINDERING A POLICE OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person or entity to obstruct, hinder or interfere
with any police officer or any person duly empowered with police authority
while in the discharge or apparent discharge of his or her duties, including
any investigation. Upon conviction, a violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.07)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06  HUNTING; PROHIBITION.
   Hunting with or the discharge of a firearm is unlawful in the township
except on the property owned by the Western Wayne Conservation Club and
maintained as a target range.
(Prior Code, § VII-4.00)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07  POSSESSION AND/OR USE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND/OR CHEMICAL AGENT.
   (A)   General prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to use or knowingly
or intentionally to possess lysergic acid diethlamide, peyote, mescaline,
dimethyltryptamine, psicolyn or such other substances as defined in Schedules 1
through 5 of Public Act 368 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 333.7336,
unless the substance was obtained directly from or pursuant to a valid
prescription or order of a practitioner (PRACTITIONER being defined as in
M.C.L.A. § 333.7109(3)(a) and (3)(b), as amended) while acting in the course of
his or her professional practice or except as otherwise authorized by this
section.
   (B)   First offenders. When any person who has not previously been convicted
as set forth herein or under any statute of the United States or state law or
municipal ordinance relating to possession or use of the substances as defined
herein pleads guilty to or is found guilty of violating this section, the
court, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused
person, may defer further proceedings and place the accused person on probation
upon certain terms and conditions, including therein such requirement that the
accused person attend courses of instruction or rehabilitation on the medical,
psychological and social effects of the misuse of drugs and/or the substances
defined herein. Upon violation of a term of condition, the court may enter an
adjudication of guilt and proceed as the court determines. Upon fulfillment of
the terms and conditions, the court shall discharge the person and dismiss the
proceeding against him or her. Discharge and dismissal under this section shall
be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for the purposes of
disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon the conviction of a
crime. There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this division (B)
with respect to any person. The Department of Public Safety shall retain a
nonpublic record of an arrest and discharge or dismissal under this division
(B). This record shall be furnished to any court or police agency upon request
for the purpose of showing that a defendant in a criminal action involving
possession or use of the substances as defined above has already once availed
himself or herself of the provisions of this division (B).
   (C)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. A person shall not possess drug
paraphernalia as defined by Public Act 368, § 7451 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §
333.7451, knowing that the drug paraphernalia will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance as
defined by Public Act 368 of 1978, part 71, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7101 et seq.
This division (C) shall not apply to the lawful use of marihuana, but shall
apply to possession of marihuana paraphernalia by persons less than 21 years of
age.
   (D)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and the like. It shall be unlawful for
any person to have, possess, sell, offer to sell, dispense or give away any
hypodermic syringe, needle or any other instrument or implement for the illegal
use of narcotic or dangerous or hallucinatory drugs as defined by state law, by
subcutaneous injection or intracutaneous injection or any other manner or
method of introduction and which is possessed, sold, offered, dispensed or
given away for that purpose.
   (E)   Loitering about places where controlled substances and the like are
illegally stored, kept or used. It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing
that the controlled substances, devices and/or other instruments enumerated and
prescribed within this section are being illegally sold, dispensed, furnished,
given away, stored kept or used, to loiter about, frequent or be present in
such building, apartment, automobile, beat or place of any description wherein
such illegal activity is being carried on, conducted or operated or wherein
such illegal substances, devices and/or instruments prescribed herein are being
illegally kept or stored.
   (F)   Use of chemical agents.
      (1)   As used in this section, the term CHEMICAL AGENT means any
substance containing a toxic chemical or organic solvent or both, having the
property of releasing toxic vapors. The term includes, but is not limited to,
glue, acetone, toluene, carbon tetrachloride, hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon
derivatives.
      (2)   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of
intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of
the senses of nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of any
chemical agent, drug or other substance or matter or intentionally drink, eat
or otherwise introduce any model glue, drug or other substance or matter into
his or her respiratory or circulatory system. This section shall not prohibit
the inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
      (3)   Any person who assists, aids, abets or encourages any person to
violate the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Original package. Controlled substances to be kept in original
package. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess any
controlled substance as defined in M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7212, 333.7214, 333.7216,
333.7218 and 333.7220, and as amended, commonly referred to Schedule 1 through
Schedule 5 controlled substances, unless it is kept in the original package or
container in which they were received from a person who may lawfully prescribe
or dispense controlled substances; provided, that this division (G) shall not
be construed to apply to any duly licensed medical doctor, osteopathic
physician, dentist, veterinarian or chiropodist, or to any authorized person
acting directly under their supervision or control.
   (H)   Possession or use of marihuana by a person under 21 years of age. It
shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to knowingly or
intentionally possess or use marihuana.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08  POSSESSION OR USE OF TOBACCO, VAPOR PRODUCTS OR ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE
PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHEWING TOBACCO. Loose tobacco or a flat, compressed cake of tobacco
which is inserted into the mouth to be chewed or sucked.
      TOBACCO SNUFF. Shredded, powdered or pulverized tobacco which may be
inhaled through the nostrils, chewed or placed against the gums.
      VAPOR PRODUCT or ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. A noncombustible product
containing nicotine or not that employs a heating element, power source,
electronic circuit or other electronic, chemical or mechanical means regardless
of shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from nicotine or not in a
solution or other form. VAPOR PRODUCT includes an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe or similar product or
device and a vapor cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solution or
other form than is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette,
electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe or similar product or
device. VAPOR PRODUCT does not include a product regulated as a drug or device
by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under subchapter V of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. §§ 351 to 360FFF-7.
   (B)   Possession or use in public place prohibited. A person under 18 years
of age shall not possess or smoke cigarettes or cigars, or possess or chew,
suck or inhale chewing tobacco or tobacco snuff, or possess or use tobacco in
any other form, or possess or smoke vapor product or alternative nicotine
products on a public highway, street, alley, park or other lands used for
public purposes, or in a public place of business or amusement.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09  OPEN HOUSE PARTIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. An alcoholic liquor as defined in § 105 the Michigan
Liquor Control Code of 1998, being M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1105 et seq.
      ALLOW. To give permission for, or approval of, possession or consumption
of an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance, by any of the following
means:
         (a)   In writing;
         (b)   By one or more oral statements; or
         (c)   By any form of conduct, including a failure to take corrective
action, that would cause a reasonable person to believe that permission or
approval has been given.
      CONTROL OVER ANY PREMISES, RESIDENCE OR OTHER REAL PROPERTY. The
authority to regulate, direct, restrain, superintend, control or govern the
conduct of other individuals on or within that premises, residence or other
real property, and includes, but is not limited to, a possessory right.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. As that term is defined in § 7104 of Public Act 368
of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 333.7104.
      CORRECTIVE ACTION. Any of the following:
         (a)   Making a prompt demand that the minor or other individual depart
from the premises, residence or other real property, or refrain from the
unlawful possession or consumption of the alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance on or within that premises, residence or other real property, and
taking additional action described in divisions (b) or (c) below of this
definition if the minor or other individual does not comply with the request;
         (b)   Making a prompt report of the unlawful possession or consumption
of alcoholic liquor or a controlled substance to a law enforcement agency
having jurisdiction over the violation; and/or
         (c)   Making a prompt report of the unlawful possession or consumption
of alcoholic liquor or a controlled substance to another person having a
greater degree of authority or control over the conduct of persons on or within
the premises, residence or other real property.
      MINOR. An individual less than 21 years of age.
      PREMISES. A permanent or temporary place of assembly, other than a
residence, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   A meeting hall, meeting room or conference room; and
         (b)   A public or private park.
      RESIDENCE. A permanent or temporary place of dwelling, including, but not
limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   A house, apartment, condominium or mobile home;
         (b)   A cottage, cabin, trailer or tent; and
         (c)   A motel unit, hotel unit or bed and breakfast unit.
      SOCIAL GATHERING. An assembly of two or more individuals for any purpose,
unless all of the individuals attending the assembly are members of the same
household or immediate family.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, an owner, tenant
or other person having control over any premises, residence or other real
property shall not do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly allow a minor to consume or possess an alcoholic beverage
at a social gathering on or within that premises, residence or other real
property; or
      (2)   Knowingly allow any individual to consume or possess a controlled
substance at a social gathering on or within that premises, residence or other
real property.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use, consumption or possession of a
controlled substance by an individual pursuant to a lawful prescription, or to
the use, consumption, or possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor for
religious purposes.
   (D)   Evidence of all of the following gives rise to a rebuttable
presumption that the defendant allowed the consumption or possession of an
alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance on or within the premises,
residence or other real property, in violation of this section:
      (1)   The defendant had control over the premises, residence or other
real property;
      (2)   The defendant knew that a minor was consuming or in possession of
an alcoholic beverage or knew that an individual was consuming or in possession
of a controlled substance at a social gathering on or within that premises,
residence or other real property; or
      (3)   The defendant failed to take corrective action.
   (E)   This section does not authorize selling or furnishing an alcoholic
beverage to a minor.
   (F)   A criminal penalty provided for under this section may be imposed in
addition to any penalty that may be imposed for any other criminal offense
arising from the same conduct.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall commit or offer or agree to commit a lewd act or an
act of prostitution, or moral perversion.
   (B)   No person shall secure or offer another for the purpose of committing
a lewd act, or an act of prostitution, or moral perversion.
   (C)   No person shall be in or near any place frequented by the public or
any public place for the purpose of inducing, enticing or procuring another to
commit a lewd act, or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport any person to any place for the
purpose of committing a lewd act, or an act of prostitution or moral
perversion.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly receive, or offer to or agree to receive,
any person into any place or building for the purpose of performing a lewd act,
or an act of prostitution or moral perversion, or knowingly permit any person
to remain in any place or building for any such purpose.
   (F)   No person shall direct or offer to direct any person to any place or
building for the purpose of committing any lewd act, or act of prostitution or
moral perversion.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11  ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or person having the charge or
custody of any animal within the township to abandon any diseased, maimed,
hopelessly sick, infirm or disabled animal in any place within the township, or
willfully or negligently to permit and allow any aged, diseased, maimed,
hopelessly sick, infirm or disabled animal in any place within the township to
suffer unnecessary torture or pain, or to treat any animal cruelly.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12  FRAUDULENT SCHEMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the township to engage in any
fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain money or other valuable thing, or
to aid or abet or in any manner to be concerned therein.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13  BREACH OF PEACE.
   Any person who shall make or assist in making any noise, disturbance,
trouble or improper diversion, rout or riot, by which the peace and good order
of the township are unreasonably disturbed, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14  PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   Any person who is publicly intoxicated in a public place, and who is either
endangering the safety of another person or of property or is acting in a
manner that unreasonably creates a public disturbance, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the hereby adopted by reference State
Penal Code sections shall be a maximum of 90 days in jail and/or a maximum fine
of $500 or both, unless the penalty under state law for a violation of the
pertinent section is a maximum 93 days in jail, in which case the penalty for
violation under §§
131.01 through
131.05 shall be a maximum of 93 days in jail and/or a maximum fine of $500 or
both.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.08)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of §
131.06 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § VII-4.01)
   (D)   (1)   A person who violates §
131.08(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $50
for each offense. Pursuant to a probation order, the court may require a person
who violates §
131.08(B) to participate in a health promotion and risk reduction assessment
program, if available. A probationer who is ordered to participate in a health
promotion and risk reduction assessment program under this section is
responsible for the cost of participating in the program.
      (2)   In addition, a person who violates §
131.08(B) is subject to the following.
         (a)   For the first violation the court may order the person to do one
of the following:
            1.   Perform not more than 16 hours of community service in a
hospice, nursing home or long-term care facility; or
            2.   Participate in a health promotion and risk reduction program,
as described in this division (D).
         (b)   For a second violation, in addition to participation in a health
promotion risk reduction program, the court may order the person to perform not
more than 32 hours of community service in a hospice, nursing home or long term
care facility.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, in addition to
participation in a health promotion and risk reduction program, the court may
order the person to perform not more than 48 hours of community service in a
hospice, nursing home or long term care facility.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of §§
131.07 through
131.14 shall be a maximum of 90 days in jail and/or a maximum fine of $500 or
both, unless the penalty under state law for a violation of the pertinent
section is a maximum 93 days in jail, in which case the penalty for violation
under §§
131.07 through
131.14 shall be a maximum of 93 days in jail and/or a maximum fine of $500 or
both.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)
CHAPTER 132:  MINORS
Section
   
132.01   Curfew
   
132.02   Youth Tobacco Act adopted by reference
   
132.03   Misrepresenting age to obtain alcoholic liquor
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  CURFEW.
   The Curfew for Children Act, Public Act 41 of 1960, being M.C.L.A. §§
722.751 et seq., is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.01)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02  YOUTH TOBACCO ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Youth Tobacco Act, Public Act 31 of 1915, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.641 et
seq., is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § VII-8.00)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03  MISREPRESENTING AGE TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall by documentary evidence
falsely represent himself or herself to be 21 years of age or over for the
purpose of purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic liquor nor shall
any person under the age of 21 years give such false information regarding his
or her age to any person selling alcoholic liquor for the purpose of securing a
sale thereof to himself, herself or any other person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   No person shall furnish false documentary evidence to any person under
21 years of age to be used by any such person for the purpose of obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the hereby adopted by reference State
Penal Code section of §
132.01 shall be a maximum of 90 days in jail and/or a maximum fine of $500 or
both, unless the penalty under state law for a violation of the pertinent
section is a maximum 93 days in jail, in which case the penalty for violation
under §
132.01 shall be a maximum of 93 days in jail and/or a maximum fine of $500 or
both.
(Prior Code, § VII-2.08)
   (C)   Any person or entity that violates any provision of §
132.02 may, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § VII-8.01)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
132.03 shall be subject to a maximum fine of $500 and/or a maximum imprisonment
of 93 days.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 22, passed 1-22-2019)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
151.   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE
      
152.   CONSTRUCTION HOURS AND PERMITS
      
153.   NATURAL PRESERVE
      
154.   PRIVATE ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
      
155.   STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
156.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
157.   HISTORIC DISTRICT
      
158.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
159.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Resolution of intent; public hearing; authority created
   
150.02   Supervision of the authority
   
150.03   Powers and duties of the authority
   
150.04   Downtown district boundaries
   
150.05   Bylaws and rules of the authority
   
150.06   Director’s bond
   
150.07   Ordinance filed with Secretary of State
Tax Increment Financing Plan and Development Plan
   
150.20   Review and determination of public purpose
   
150.21   Approval of the plans
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et
seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  RESOLUTION OF INTENT; PUBLIC HEARING; AUTHORITY CREATED.
   The Township Board having passed a resolution of intent and a public hearing
having been held on October 9, 2001, pursuant to the provisions of Public Act
197 of 1975, as amended (“Act 197"), the Charter Township of Plymouth Downtown
Development Authority (the “Authority”) is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § III-1.00)
§ 150.02  SUPERVISION OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a board (the
“Authority Board”) consisting of the Supervisor of the township and eight
members appointed by the Supervisor, subject to the approval of the Township
Board of Trustees. The members of the Authority Board shall hold office and the
Authority Board shall conduct itself in accordance with the terms and
conditions of Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § III-1.01)
§ 150.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall have the powers as are now or may hereafter be conferred
on authorities established pursuant to Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.4101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § III-1.02)
§ 150.04  DOWNTOWN DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The Authority shall exercise its power within the boundaries of the Downtown
District, which are described as follows:
CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF PLYMOUTH DDA BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
Part of Sections 34, 35 and 36, T. 1 S., R. 8 E., Plymouth Township, Wayne
County, Michigan, described as:
Beginning at the center corner of said Section 34; thence easterly along the
east-west one quarter line of said Section 34 and the north limits of the
Charter Township of Plymouth and within the Ann Arbor Road right-of-way to the
east one quarter corner of said Section 34, said point also being the west one
quarter corner of Section 35; thence continuing easterly along the east-west
one quarter line of said Section 35 and the north limits of the Charter
Township of Plymouth and within the Ann Arbor Road right-of-way to the center
corner of said Section 35; thence northerly along the north-south one quarter
line of said Section 35 and the west limits of the Charter Township of Plymouth
and within the Mill Street right-of-way to the extension of the north line of
Parcel #78-60-99-0025-000; thence easterly along said extension and the north
line of said Parcel #78-60-99-0025-000 and the north line of Parcels #78-60-99-
0011-000, #78-60-99-0012-000, #78-60-99-0014-000, #78-60-99-0013-000, #78-60-
99-0017-000, #78-60-99-0016-000 and #78-60-99-0015-000 extended to the
centerline of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence northwesterly along said
centerline to the extension of the west line of “Eastlawn Subdivision”; thence
northerly along said extension to the south right-of-way of vacated Firwood
Drive; thence easterly along said south right-of-way of vacated Firwood Drive
to the west right-of-way line of General Drive; thence northerly along said
west right-of-way to the extension of the north right-of-way of Firwood Drive;
thence easterly along said extension and the north right-of-way of Firwood
Drive to the west line of “Waverly Village Subdivision”; thence southerly and
easterly along the west and south lines of “Waverly Village Subdivision” to the
west line of “Tomlinson Estates Subdivision”; thence southerly along said west
line of “Tomlinson Estates Subdivision” to the northwest corner of Lot 80b of
“Tomlinson Estates Subdivision”; thence easterly and southerly along the north
and east lines of said Lot 80b to the northwest corner of Lot 78b of “Tomlinson
Estates Subdivision”; thence southerly and easterly along the west and south
lines of said Lot 78b to the west right-of-way of Gold Arbor Road; thence
northerly along the west right-of-way of Gold Arbor Road to the extension of
the north line of Lot 77 of “Tomlinson Estates Subdivision”; thence easterly
along said extension and the north line of said Lot 77 and the north line of
Lots 76, 33 and 32 of “Tomlinson Estates Subdivision” to the west right-of-way
of Southworth Road; thence northerly along said west right-of-way of Southworth
Road to the extension of the north line of Lot 27 of “Tomlinson Estates
Subdivision”; thence easterly along said extension and the north line of said
Lot 27 to the east line of “Tomlinson Estates Subdivision”, thence northerly
along said east line of “Tomlinson Estates Subdivision” to the southwest corner
of “Greystone Estates Subdivision”; thence easterly along the south line of
“Greystone Estates Subdivision” extended to the east right-of-way of Haggerty
Road; thence southerly along said east right-of-way of Haggerty Road 93 feet
wide to the extension of the north line of “Arbor Village Subdivision No. 2”;
thence easterly along said extension to the northwest corner of “Arbor Village
Subdivision No. 2” and the east right-of-way of Haggerty Road 120 feet wide;
thence southerly along the west line of “Arbor Village Subdivision No. 2” and
the east right-of-way of Haggerty Road to the southwest corner of “Arbor
Village Subdivision No. 2”; thence easterly along the south line of “Arbor
Village Subdivision No. 2” to the southeast corner of Lot 77 of “Arbor Village
Subdivision No. 2”; thence southerly along the west line of Lots 79, 80, 81,
82, 83 and 84 of “Arbor Village Subdivision No. 2” to the southwest corner of
said Lot 84 and the north right-of-way of Ann Arbor Road; thence easterly along
the south line of “Arbor Village Subdivision No. 2” and the north right-of-way
of Ann Arbor Road to the southeast corner of Lot 85 of “Arbor Village
Subdivision No. 2”; thence northeasterly along the southeast line of said Lot
85 and the westerly limits of I-275 right-of-way to the northeast corner of
said Lot 85 of “Arbor Village Subdivision No. 2”; thence northerly along the
east line of said subdivision and the west limits of I-275 right-of-way to the
most southerly corner of Parcel #78-63-99-0020-702; thence northeasterly along
the southeasterly lines of said parcel and the westerly limits of I-275 right-
of-way to the southeast corner of “Hidden Heights Subdivision”; thence
northeasterly and northerly along the easterly lines of said subdivision and
the westerly limits of I-275 right-of-way to the northeast corner of Lot 41 of
said “Hidden Heights Subdivision”; thence due east across I-275 to the east
limits of I-275 right-of-way and the west line of Parcel #78-63-99-0004-000;
thence southerly and southeasterly along the west and southwesterly lines of
said Parcel #78-63-99-0004-000 and the easterly limits of I-275 right-of-way to
west line of “Plymouth Village East Subdivision”; thence northeasterly and
easterly along the northwest and north lines of “Plymouth Village East
Subdivision and continuing easterly along the north line of Parcel #78-63-99-
0001-002 extended to the east line of Section 36 and the east limits of the
Charter Township of Plymouth; thence southerly along said east line of Section
36 and the east limits of the Charter Township of Plymouth and within the
Eckles Road and Ann Arbor Road rights of way to the east one quarter corner of
said Section 36; thence continuing southerly along said east line of Section 36
and the east limits of the Charter Township of Plymouth and within the Ann
Arbor Road and Eckles Road rights-of-way to the extension of the north line of
“Cambridge Village Subdivision”; thence westerly along said extension and the
north line of “Cambridge Village Subdivision” to the east right-of-way of
Tavistock Drive, said point also being the northwest corner of Lot 72 of
“Cambridge Village Subdivision”; thence west-northwesterly across Tavistock
Drive to the northeast corner of Lot 1 of “Cambridge Green Subdivision”; thence
westerly along the north line of said Lot 1 to the northwest corner of said Lot
1; thence southerly along the west line of said Lot 1 and the west line of Lot
2 and the northerly west line of Lot 5 of “Cambridge Green Subdivision” to a
corner of said Lot 5 also being the southeast corner of Parcel #78-66-99-0006-
004; thence westerly along a north line of said Lot 5 and the north line of
Lots 6 and 7 to the northwest corner of said Lot 7 of “Cambridge Green
Subdivision”; thence southerly and southwesterly along the west and
northwesterly lines of said subdivision and the easterly limits of I-275 right-
of-way to the northeast corner of Parcel #78-66-99-0002-002; thence
southwesterly along the northwesterly lines of said parcel and the easterly
limits of I-275 right-of-way to the southwest corner of said Parcel # 78-66-99-
0002-002 and the northwest corner of Lot 39 of “Cambridge Green Subdivision”;
thence southwesterly along the westerly lines of Lots 39, 40 and 41 of
“Cambridge Green Subdivision” and the easterly limits of I-275 right-of-way to
the southwesterly corner of said Lot 41; thence due west across I-275 to the
westerly limits of I-275 right-of-way and the easterly line of Wayne County
Condominium Subdivision Plan No. 52, also known as “Bradbury Parkhomes”; thence
northeasterly and northerly along the easterly lines of said condominium and
the westerly limits of I-275 right-of-way to the northeast corner of said
condominium and the southeast corner of Parcel #78-66-99-0001-004; thence
westerly along the south line of said Parcel #78-66-99-0001-004 and the south
line of Parcels #78-65-99-0021-702 and #78-65-99-0021-703 extended across
Haggerty Road to the west right-of-way of Haggerty Road; thence northerly along
the west right-of-way of Haggerty Road to the southeast corner of Parcel #78-
65-99-0006-000; thence westerly along the south line of said Parcel #78-65-99-
0006-000 to the southwest corner of said Parcel #78-65-99-0006-000; thence
northerly and easterly along the west and north lines of said Parcel #78-65-99-
0006-000 to the southwest corner of Parcel #78-65-99-0002-000; thence northerly
along the west line of said Parcel #78-65-99-0002-000 to the northeast corner
of Lot 17 of “Arbor Village Subdivision”; thence westerly and northerly along
the north line of said Lot 17 and the east line of “Arbor Village Subdivision”
to the northeast corner of “Arbor Village Subdivision” and the south right-of-
way of Ann Arbor Road; thence westerly along said south right-of-way of Ann
Arbor Road to the east line of Parcel #78-65-99-0004-000; thence northerly,
westerly and southerly along the east, north and west lines of said Parcel #78-
65-99-0004-000 and the south right-of-way of Ann Arbor Road to the northeast
corner of Lot 49 of “Arbor Village Subdivision”; thence westerly along the
south right-of-way of Ann Arbor Road to the northwest corner of “Arbor Village
Subdivision”; thence southerly along the west line of “Arbor Village
Subdivision” to the southeast corner of Parcel #78-62-99-0024-000; thence
westerly along the south line of said Parcel #78-62-99-0024-000 extended to the
centerline of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; thence northwesterly along said
Railroad centerline to the extension of the southerly line of Lot 20a2 of
“Gould Industrial Park”; thence southwesterly along said extension and the
southerly line of said Lot 20a2 and Lot 20a1 of “Gould Industrial Park” to the
east right-of-way of General Drive; thence southerly along the extension of the
east right-of-way of General Drive to the south right-of-way of Postiff Drive;
thence westerly along the south right-of-way of Postiff Drive, crossing Lilley
Road to the extension of the west line of Parcel #78-61-99-0016-000; thence
northerly along said extension and the west line of said Parcel #78-61-99-0016-
000 and the west line of Parcels #78-61-99-0015-000 and #78-61-99-0014-000 to
the south line of Parcel #78-61-99-0012-002; thence westerly along the south
line of said Parcel #78-61-99-0012-002 and Parcels #78-61-99-0011-000 and #78-
61-99-0007-000 to the most easterly line of Parcel #78-61-99-0005-004; thence
southerly, westerly and northwesterly along the east, south and southwest lines
of said Parcel #78-61-99-0005-004 to the southeast corner of Parcel #78-61-99-
0005-002; thence westerly along the south line of said Parcel #78-61-99-0005-
002 and the south line of Parcel #78-61-99-0005-001 across Rocker Avenue and
continuing westerly along the south line of Lots 49 and 50 of “Rocker Estates
No. 2” to the northwest corner of Lot 48 of “Rocker Estates No. 2”; thence
southerly along the west line of said Lot 48 and the west line of Lots 47 and
46 of “Rocker Estates No. 2” to the southeast corner of Lot 2 of “Rocker
Estates”; thence westerly along the south line of said Lot 2 to the east right-
of-way of South Main Street; thence southerly along the east right-of-way of
South Main Street to the southwest corner of Lot 3 of “Rocker Estates”; thence
westerly across South Main Street to the northeast corner of Lot 6 of “Palmer’s
Acres Subdivision”; thence westerly along the north line of said Lot 6 and the
south right-of-way of Marlin Avenue to the northwest corner of said Lot 6;
thence northerly across Marlin Avenue to the southwest corner of Lot 5 of
“Palmer’s Acres Subdivision”; thence northerly along the west line of said Lot
5 and the west line of Lot 4 of “Palmer’s Acres Subdivision” and the east line
of Lots 18, 19 and 20 of “Palmer’s Resubdivision” to the northeast corner of
said Lot 20; thence westerly along the north line of said Lot 20 across Ball
Avenue and along the north line of Lots 37 and 42 of “Palmer’s Resubdivision”
to the northwest corner of said Lot 42; thence continuing westerly across
Corinne Avenue to the northeast corner of Lot 77 “Green Meadows Subdivision”;
thence westerly along the north line of said Lot 77 and the north line of Lot
170 of “Green Meadows Subdivision” to the northwest corner of said Lot 170;
thence southerly along the east right-of-way of Northern Avenue to the
southwest corner of Lot 167 of “Green Meadows Subdivision”; thence westerly
across Northern Avenue to the northeast corner of Lot 177 of “Green Meadows
Subdivision”; thence westerly along the north line of said Lot 177 and the
north line of Lot 262 of “Green Meadows Subdivision” to the northwest corner of
said Lot 262; thence continuing westerly across Oakview Avenue to the northeast
corner of Lot 273 of “Green Meadows Subdivision”; thence continuing westerly
along the north line of said Lot 273 to the northwest corner of said Lot 273;
thence northerly along the west line of Lots 272, 271, 270 and 269 to the
northwest corner of said Lot 269 of “Green Meadows Subdivision”; thence
westerly along the north line of Lot 363 of “Green Meadows Subdivision” to the
northwest corner of said Lot 363; thence westerly across Marlowe Avenue to the
northeast corner of Lot 366 of “Green Meadows Subdivision”; thence continuing
westerly along the north line of Lots 366 and 460 to the northwest corner of
said Lot 460 of “Green Meadows Subdivision”; thence westerly across Elmhurst
Avenue to the northeast corner of Lot 463; thence continuing westerly along the
north line of Lots 463 and 557 to the northwest corner of said Lot 557 of
“Green Meadows Subdivision”; thence westerly across Brookline Avenue to the
northeast corner of Lot 560; thence continuing westerly along the north line of
said lot to the northwest corner of said Lot 560; thence southerly along the
west line of Lots 560, 561, 562, 563, 564, 565, 566 and 567 of “Green Meadows
Subdivision” extended to the south right-of-way of Marlin Avenue; thence
westerly along the south right-of-way of Marlin Avenue, across Sheldon Road to
the west right-of-way of Sheldon Road; thence northerly along the west right-
of-way of Sheldon Road to the southeast corner of Parcel #78-58-99-0036-001;
thence westerly along the south line of said Parcel #78-58-99-0036-001 and the
south line of Parcel #78-58-99-0030-000 to the southwest corner of said Parcel
#78-58-99-0030-000; thence northerly and easterly along the west and north
lines of said Parcel #78-58-99-0030-000 to the southwest corner of Parcel #78-
58-99-0034-000; thence northerly along the west line of said Parcel #78-58-99-
0034-000 extended across Ann Arbor Road to the north right-of-way of Ann Arbor
Road; thence easterly along the north right-of-way of Ann Arbor Road to the
southwest corner of Parcel #78-57-99-0005-703; thence northerly along the west
line of said Parcel #78-57-99-0005-703 and the west line of Parcel #78-57-99-
0005-704 extended across Pinetree Drive to the north right-of-way of Pinetree
Drive; thence easterly along the north right-of-way of Pinetree Drive extended
to the north-south one quarter line of Section 34 and the east limits of the
Charter Township of Plymouth; thence southerly along said north-south one
quarter line and the east limits of the Charter Township of Plymouth and within
the Sheldon Road right-of-way to the center of said Section 34 and the Point of
Beginning.
(Prior Code, § III-1.03)
§ 150.05  BYLAWS AND RULES OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall adopt bylaws governing its procedures and rules
regarding the holding of its meetings, all in accordance with Public Act 57 of
2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq., and immediately shall forward a copy
thereof to the Township Board of Trustees in care of the Township Clerk. The
bylaws and rules shall be subject to the approval of the Township Board of
Trustees; provided, however, that if the Township Board of Trustees fails
either to approve or disapprove the Authority’s bylaws and rules within 30 days
after receipt of a copy thereof by the Township Clerk, the Authority’s bylaws
and rules shall be deemed to have been approved by the Township Board of
Trustees for all purposes.
(Prior Code, § III-1.04)
§ 150.06  DIRECTOR’S BOND.
   In the event the Authority Board employs a director as authorized by Public
Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq., the director, before
entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall post a bond in the penal
sum of $10,000, payable to the Authority for the use and benefit of the
Authority, approved by the Authority Board and filed with the Township Clerk.
The premium on the bond furnished by the director shall be deemed an operating
expense of the Authority, payable from funds available to it for expenses of
operation.
(Prior Code, § III-1.05)
§ 150.07  ORDINANCE FILED WITH SECRETARY OF STATE.
   Upon adoption, a certified copy of this subchapter shall be filed with the
Secretary of State of the State of Michigan in accordance with Public Act 57 of
2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § III-1.06)
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
§ 150.20  REVIEW AND DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   Following the recommendation of the Township Downtown Development Authority
(the “Authority”) from March 11, 2002, and having conducted a duly noticed
public hearing on the Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan
(Exhibit “A”) on April 9, 2002, the Township Board of Trustees, upon its
review, finds that these plans meet the following standards and criteria as set
forth in Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq.
   (A)   The Development Plan for the Authority’s development area meets the
requirements set forth in Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et
seq., in that it contains all of the following:
      (1)   The designation of boundaries of the development area in relation
to highways, streets, streams or otherwise;
      (2)   The location and extent of existing streets and other public
facilities within the development area, shall designate the location, character
and extent of the categories of public and private land uses then existing and
proposed for the development area, including residential, recreational,
commercial, industrial, educational and other uses, and shall include a legal
description of the development area;
      (3)   A description of existing improvements in the development area to
be demolished, repaired, or altered, a description of any repairs and
alterations, and an estimate of the time required for completion;
      (4)   The location, extent, character and estimated cost of the
improvements including rehabilitation contemplated for the development area and
an estimate of the time required for completion;
      (5)   A statement of the construction or stages of construction planned,
and the estimated time of completion of each stage;
      (6)   A description of any parts of the development area to be left as
open space and the use contemplated for the space;
      (7)   A description of any portions of the development area that the
authority desires to sell, donate, exchange or lease to or from the
municipality and the proposed terms;
      (8)   A description of desired zoning changes and changes in streets,
street levels, intersections or utilities;
      (9)   An estimate of the cost of the development, a statement of the
proposed method of financing the development, and the ability of the authority
to arrange the financing;
      (10)   Designation of the person or persons, natural or corporate, to
whom all or a portion of the development is to be leased, sold or conveyed in
any manner and for whose benefit the project is being undertaken if that
information is available to the authority;
      (11)   The procedures for bidding for the leasing, purchasing or
conveying in any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its
completion, if there is no express or implied agreement between the authority
and persons, natural or corporate, that all or a portion of the development
will be leased, sold or conveyed in any manner to those persons;
      (12)   Estimates of the number of persons residing in the development
area and the number of families and individuals to be displaced. If occupied
residences are designated for acquisition and clearance by the authority, a
development plan shall include a survey of the families and individuals to be
displaced, including their income and racial composition, a statistical
description of the housing supply in the community, including the number of
private and public units in existence or under construction, the condition of
those units in existence, the number of owner-occupied and renter-occupied
units, the annual rate of turnover of the various types of housing and the
range of rents and sale prices, an estimate of the total demand for housing in
the community, and the estimated capacity of private and public housing
available to displaced families and individuals;
      (13)   A plan for establishing priority for the relocation of persons
displaced by the development in any new housing in the development area;
      (14)   Provision for the costs of relocating persons displaced by the
development and financial assistance and reimbursement of expenses, including
litigation expenses and expenses incident to the transfer of title, in
accordance with the standards and provisions of the Federal Uniform Relocation,
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, being Public Law
91-646, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq.;
      (15)   A plan for compliance with Public Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 213.321 to 213.332; and
      (16)   Other material that the authority, local public agency, or
governing body considers pertinent.
   (B)   The tax increment financing plan for the development area meets the
requirements as set forth in Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101
et seq., as follows:
      (1)   A development plan including a detailed explanation of the tax
increment procedure, the maximum amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred,
and the duration of the program. The plan contains a statement of the estimated
impact of tax increments financing on the assessed values of all taxing
jurisdictions in which the development area is located. The plan includes the
portion intended to be used by the Authority. The plan sets forth the method
for excluding growth and property value resulting solely from inflation;
      (2)   The percentage of taxes levied for school operating purposes that
is proposed to be captured and used by the tax increment financing plan is not
greater than the plan’s percentage capture and use of taxes levied by a
municipality or the county for operating purposes. Approval of this tax
increment financing plan is pursuant to the notice, hearing and disclosure
provisions of Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq. The
township has provided a reasonable opportunity to the taxing jurisdictions
levying taxes subject to capture to meet with the township. The taxing
jurisdictions have been informed of the fiscal and economic implications of the
proposed development area. The township has entered into an intergovernmental
agreement with the county to facilitate the creation of the Downtown
Development Authority. The tax increment financing plan may be modified by the
Township Board upon notice and after public hearings and agreements as were
required for the approval of the original plan; and
      (3)   The Township Treasurer shall transmit to the Authority tax
increment revenues as provided in Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.4101 et seq. The Township Downtown Development Authority shall expend the
tax increment revenues received for the development program only pursuant to
the tax increment financing plan. Surplus funds shall revert proportionately to
the respective taxing bodies. These revenues shall not be used to circumvent
existing property tax limitations and in all other respects the Downtown
Development Authority shall comply with the requirements of Public Act 57 of
2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq., including annually reporting to the
Township Board and the State Tax Commission a report on the status of the tax
increment financing account. The report shall also be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the township including all of the information
required by Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq.
   (C)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and the
Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
   (D)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes
of Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq.
   (E)   The land within the development area designated by the plan to be
acquired is reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and of
Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et seq., in an efficient and
economically satisfactory manner.
   (F)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan for
the township.
   (G)   Public services such as fire and police protection and utilities are,
or will be, adequate to serve the project area.
   (H)   Proposed changes to zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities are reasonably necessary for the project and for the township.
   (I)   Through its deliberations toward the adoption of this subchapter, the
Board of Trustees of the township has found that there is a public interest to
be served in the adoption and implementation of the development plan and tax
increment financing plan for the Authority’s development area.
(Prior Code, § III-2.00)
§ 150.21  APPROVAL OF THE PLANS.
   (A)   Premised upon the determinations made in §
150.20 and upon further finding that the execution of the plans appears to be
in the best interest of the township, the development plan and the tax
increment financing plan for the Downtown Development Authority’s Ann Arbor
Road Development Area (Exhibit “A”) is hereby approved and adopted by reference
and a copy of the plan shall be made available at the Township Clerk’s office.
   (B)   No amendment to the plans shall be effective unless submitted to and
approved by the Board of Trustees of the township in accordance with the
procedures established in Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 et
seq.
(Prior Code, § III-2.01)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any
other legal entity who violates the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § III-1.07)
CHAPTER 151:  VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Scope
   
151.04   Evidence of vacant property
   
151.05   Registry of vacant properties
   
151.06   Vacant properties to be registered
   
151.07   Owner’s registration form; content
   
151.08   Registration fee
   
151.09   Requirement to keep information current
   
151.10   Maintenance and security requirements
   
151.11   Monitoring of property; fee
   
151.12   Open property; securing fee
   
151.13   Exemption; property damaged by natural or human-made disaster; repair
requirements
   
151.14   Unpaid fees; assessment
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq. as amended, Public Act 167 of 1917, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq. as
amended
§ 151.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to help protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens by preventing blight, protecting property values and
neighborhood integrity, avoiding the creation and maintenance of nuisances and
ensuring the safe and sanitary maintenance of dwellings, commercial and
industrial buildings. Due to economic conditions, mortgage foreclosures and
increased bankruptcies, many homes and buildings have become vacant and
unsupervised. This has caused properties to become attractive nuisances for
minors and criminal activity. Vacant properties have a negative impact on
surrounding properties and neighborhoods. Potential buyers are deferred by the
presence of nearby vacant abandoned buildings. There is an increased instance
of unsecured or open doors and windows, broken water pipes, flooded basements,
theft of metals and other materials, overgrowth of grass, weeds, shrubs and
bushes, illegal dumping, and rat and vermin activity at vacant structures. The
neglect devalues properties and causes deterioration in neighborhoods and
industrial and commercial areas. The township also needs to be able to contact
owners for utility shutoff, fire safety and police reasons.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.00)
§ 151.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. As defined under the State of Michigan
Construction Code Act.
   HARBORAGE. A shelter, harbor.
   OWNER. One who has the right to possess, use and convey something, such as,
the owner, occupant or successor to title by foreclosure, sheriff’s sale or by
court order.
   RODENT. Any of an order (Rodentia) of relatively gnawing mammals (as a
mouse, a squirrel or a beaver) that have in the upper jaw a single pair of
incisors with a chisel-shaped edge; also: a small mammal (as a rabbit or a
shrew).
   VACANT PROPERTY. A lot, building or structure that is not legally or
currently occupied. VACANT PROPERTY does not mean property that is temporarily
unoccupied while the residents are away on vacation, personal matters or
business, or is not intended by the owner to be left vacant.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.01)
§ 151.03  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing residential,
commercial and industrial structures and all vacant land.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.02)
§ 151.04  EVIDENCE OF VACANT PROPERTY.
   Evidence of vacancy shall include any condition that on its own, or combined
with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the property is vacant. The conditions include, but are not limited to:
overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers
and/or mail; past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities;
accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; boarded up windows; abandoned
vehicles, auto parts or materials; the absence of or continually drawn window
coverings such as curtains, blinds and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings
and/or personal items consistent with habitation or occupancy; statements by
neighbors, passersby, delivery agents or utility agents, including Department
of Public Service and/or Police/Fire Department employees, that the property is
vacant.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.03)
§ 151.05  REGISTRY OF VACANT PROPERTIES.
   There is hereby created in the Township Building Department office a
registry of vacant properties.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.04)
§ 151.06  VACANT PROPERTIES TO BE REGISTERED.
   Owners of real property are required to register all vacant properties
within 30 days of the vacancy. Structures that are vacant at the time of the
enactment of this chapter must register within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.05)
§ 151.07  OWNER’S REGISTRATION FORM; CONTENT.
   Owners who are required to register their properties pursuant to this
chapter shall submit a completed vacant property registration form, as provided
by the Township Building Department, containing the following information:
   (A)   The name of the owner of the property;
   (B)   A mailing address where mail may be sent that will be acknowledged as
received by the owner. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent to
the address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed”, or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then the
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the owner has failed to comply with
this requirement;
   (C)   The name of an individual responsible for the care and control of the
property. The individual may be the owner, if the owner is an individual, or
may be someone other than the owner with whom he or she has contracted; and
   (D)   A current address, phone number, fax and email address (if fax and
email addresses are available) where communications may be sent that will be
acknowledged as received by the owner or individual responsible for the care
and control of the property. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent
to the address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed”, or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then the
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the owner has failed to comply with
this requirement.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.06)
§ 151.08  REGISTRATION FEE.
   The registration fee shall be set by resolution of the Township Board to
offset the cost of processing the form. In addition, in the case where the
owner has failed to register, there shall be assessed the added cost of the
township’s expense in having to determine ownership, which may include, but is
not limited to, title search.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.07)
§ 151.09  REQUIREMENT TO KEEP INFORMATION CURRENT.
   If at any time the information contained in the registration form is no
longer valid, the property owner shall within ten days file a new registration
form containing current information. There shall be no fee to update the
current owner’s information.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.08)
§ 151.10  MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be kept free of weeds, grass
more than eight inches high, vegetation growth between sidewalk and/or driveway
flags or from cracks in the pavement, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk,
debris, building materials, rodent harborage, any accumulation of newspapers,
circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by federal, state or local
law, discarded items including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing, large
and small appliances, printed material, signage, containers, equipment,
construction materials, or any illegal outside storage of vehicles. Property
subject to this chapter must comply with the minimum security fencing, barrier
and maintenance requirements of the state’s Building, Construction and Property
Maintenance Codes.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior structure.
   (C)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be landscaped and properly
maintained. Landscaping includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark designed
and maintained in an appropriate manner. Landscaping does not include weeds,
gravel, broken concrete, asphalt, decomposed materials, plastic sheeting,
indoor-outdoor carpet, or any similar material. Maintenance includes, but is
not limited to, regular watering, irrigation, cutting, pruning and mowing of
landscaping and removal of all trimmings.
   (D)   Pools, spas and other water features shall be kept in working order or
winterized to ensure that the water remains clear and free of pollutants and
debris, or drained and kept dry and free of debris, and must comply with the
minimum security fencing, barrier and maintenance requirements of the state’s
Building, Construction and Property Maintenance Codes.
   (E)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons. Secure manner
includes, but is not limited to, the closure and locking of windows, doors
(walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening of such size
that it may allow a child to access the interior of the property and/or
structure(s). Broken windows and doors must be repaired or replaced within 14
days. Boarding up of windows and doors is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.09)
§ 151.11  MONITORING OF PROPERTY; FEE.
   Upon violation of this chapter by the owner, the Building Department is
hereby authorized to monitor the condition of any property required to be
registered under this chapter. A monthly monitoring fee as set by resolution of
the Township Board may be assessed against the property/owner to offset the
costs incurred by the township in responding to telephone calls, complaints,
inquiries, site visits, owner contacts and the monitoring of the site.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.10)
§ 151.12  OPEN PROPERTY; SECURING FEE.
   Property subject to this chapter that is left open and/or accessible shall
be subject to entry by the township in order to ensure that the property has
not become an attractive nuisance and to ensure that the property is locked
and/or secured. The owner of property subject to this chapter which property is
found open or unsecured shall be responsible for a securing fee as set by the
Township Board to offset the cost incurred by the township in contacting the
owner or management company to secure the property, or if the owner and/or
management company cannot be contacted or does not secure the property within a
reasonable time, not to exceed 24 hours, the cost incurred by the township in
securing the property.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.11)
§ 151.13  EXEMPTION; PROPERTY DAMAGED BY NATURAL OR HUMAN-MADE DISASTER; REPAIR
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A property which has been partially or completely destroyed by natural
or human-made disaster is exempt from the strict requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, NATURAL OR HUMAN-MADE DISASTER shall
mean fire, lightning, hurricane, tornado, toxic substances or high winds,
destruction by bomb, gas explosion, vehicle collision, fumes, act of war, riot,
civil disturbance or infestation by insects, rodents or disease bearing agents.
   (C)   Properties that have been damaged or destroyed by natural or human-
made disaster shall be registered with the township within five business days
of the disaster and an application for a permit to start reconstruction,
construction or demolition of the damaged property shall be made by the owner
within 90 days of the disaster. Failure to comply with this division (C) shall
remove the exemption provided herein and subject the property to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   At all times, property that has been damaged or destroyed by a natural
or human-made disaster shall be secured, maintained and monitored as lawfully
required and/or authorized by the Township Building Official and Code
Enforcement Officer under any federal, state, county and/or township laws,
rules or regulations, including if applicable, this chapter.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.12)
§ 151.14  UNPAID FEES; ASSESSMENT.
   All fees hereunder that remain unpaid after 14 days written notice to the
owner/management company shall be assessed against the property as a lien and
included on the tax roll.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.13)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, a violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor and a strict liability offense regardless of intent. Any person,
firm and/or corporation that violates any portion of this chapter shall be
subject to prosecution and penalty under §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Registration of property under this chapter
is in addition to, and not in lieu of, the requirements of Public Act 167 of
1917, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended, which allows for
demolition of vacant structures, or nuisance abatement by the township.
   (B)   Failure to file the required registration form, or failure to maintain
the registration form containing current information shall be a civil
infraction and subject to a $100 fine. Each day that a registration form is not
on file and each day that an owner and/or owner’s agent fails to maintain
current information in a registration form shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Failure to make required repairs, or a second offense of any other
requirement herein, shall be a misdemeanor subject to prosecution and penalties
under §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § XI-8.14)
CHAPTER 152:  CONSTRUCTION HOURS AND PERMITS
Section
   
152.01   Working hours
   
152.02   Exceptions
   
152.03   Owner defined
   
152.04   Appearance tickets
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 42.1 et seq.
§ 152.01  WORKING HOURS.
   No person shall cause, permit or engage in the erection, construction,
demolition, alteration or repair of any road, highway, utility line, building
or structure or the excavating or filling of land or the changing of the
topography of any premises in the township between sunset of one day and
sunrise of the next succeeding day; provided, however, that repairs to any
road, highway, utility line, building, structure or land reasonably necessary
to the same for the protection of the public health and safety against a clear
and present danger may be conducted or occur at any hours.
(Prior Code, § XII-1.00)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon application in the form and payment of the fee as the Township Board
may determine by resolution from time to time, a person may petition the
Township Board for an exception to the otherwise applicable restrictions of
this chapter. Upon review of the application, the Township Board may grant an
exception permit which shall specify the location of the work to be performed,
the nature of the permitted work and the hours and dates of the permitted work.
The Township Board shall grant the exception permit only after giving due
consideration to the location, nature of work and requested hours and days of
work in relationship to the surrounding land uses and occupations of land, so
as not to adversely affect by noise, light, vibration or smell such neighboring
property and the users thereof, and to the ability of the performance of the
work in a reasonable and orderly manner without such exception be granted.
(Prior Code, § XII-1.01)
§ 152.03  OWNER DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER OF PROPERTY. Prima facie evidence that the person, whether natural
person, firm, co-partnership, association, governmental entity or corporation,
set forth as the owner on the current tax rolls of the township, as certified
by the Township Treasurer. A person exercising actual control over the use of
any property, whether an owner, lessee, renter or possessor of property shall
be as liable as the OWNER and subject to prosecution under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § XII-1.02)
§ 152.04  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   A police officer, the Building Official of the township, or any inspector of
the Department of Buildings and Code Enforcement, or the Code Enforcement
Officer of the township, upon reasonable cause to believe an owner or a person
has committed an offense under this chapter may issue and serve an appearance
ticket upon such owner or person.
(Prior Code, § XII-1.04)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, co-partnership, corporation or other entity
who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be penalized as
provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § XII-1.03)
CHAPTER 153:  NATURAL PRESERVE
Section
   
153.01   Title of the chapter
   
153.02   Enforcement
   
153.03   Unlawful acts
   
153.04   Rules and regulations
   
153.05   Procedure for designation as natural preserve
   
153.06   Natural preserve areas
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et
seq., as amended, and  Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et
seq., as amended
§ 153.01  TITLE OF THE CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Natural Preserve Ordinance of the
Charter Township of Plymouth”.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.00)
§ 153.02  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department of the township shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter and shall enforce all rules and regulations relating to any natural
preserve within the township.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.01)
§ 153.03  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any duly adopted rule or
regulation governing conduct in an area designated a natural preserve within
the township.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.02)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply in all areas designated
natural preserves within the township.
   (A)   Property.
      (1)   Trees, shrubbery, lawns.
         (a)   No person shall willfully damage, cut, carve, transplant or
remove any tree or plant or injure the bark of any tree or plant, or attach any
rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant in an area designated a
natural preserve; and
         (b)   No person shall climb any tree, or walk, stand, or sit upon
railings, fences or upon any other property not designated or customarily used
for such purposes within an area designated a natural preserve.
      (2)   Wild animals, birds and the like.
         (a)   No person shall attempt to harm or injure, kill, shoot or throw
missiles at any animal, reptile or bird; no person shall remove or have in his
or her possession, give away, sell or offer to sell, or buy or offer to buy, or
accept as a gift, any animal, reptile or bird in an area designated a natural
preserve; and
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed, or attempt to feed
any animal or bird any known noxious substances in an area designated a natural
preserve.
   (B)   Sanitation.
      (1)   Pollution of waters. It shall be unlawful to throw, discharge or
otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters of any pond, lake, stream
or other body of water in or adjacent to any area designated a natural preserve
or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such waters, any
substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will result in the pollution
of the waters.
      (2)   Refuse and trash. No person shall throw or deposit litter, refuse
or trash in any area designated a natural preserve within the township except
in public receptacles and in a manner that the refuse and trash will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
natural preserve or upon any street or public place. Where public receptacles
are not provided, all litter, refuse and trash shall be carried away from the
natural preserve by the person responsible for its presence and properly
disposed of elsewhere in accordance with the laws of the township and the
state. No person shall dump, deposit or leave in any natural preserve any
bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage
or refuse or other trash.
   (C)   Behavior.
      (1)   Domestic animals. No person shall allow a dog, horse or any other
domestic animal to enter an area designated a natural preserve.
      (2)   Fires. Its shall be unlawful for any person to build or attempt to
build a fire in an area designated a natural preserve. No person shall drop,
throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars,
tobacco, paper or other flammable material within any area designated a natural
preserve.
      (3)   Vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or attempt to
enter an area designated a natural preserve with a bicycle, motorcycle, car or
any other vehicle.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.03)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05  PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATION AS NATURAL PRESERVE.
   The owner of property, the description of which falls within the definition
of “natural preserve”, as set forth herein, may apply for natural preserve
status in the following manner:
   (A)   (1)   The property owner must impose building and use restrictions,
reservations, covenants, obligations or conditions upon the land, specifying
that they shall run with the land and be a burden on and benefit to the land in
perpetuity.
      (2)   These building and use restrictions, reservations, covenants,
obligations or conditions must be recorded with the Register of Deeds and be in
a manner consistent with the natural preserve as set forth herein.
      (3)   The property owner must then submit a request to the township for
approval by the Township Board of Trustees as a natural preserve.
      (4)   The Township Board of Trustees shall approve any request for a
natural preserve designation if the subject property and building and use
restrictions meet the requirements of this chapter. Any denial of a request may
be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   NATURAL PRESERVE shall be defined as an area that:
      (1)   Generally appears to be affected primarily by the forces of nature,
with human imprint substantially unnoticeable;
      (2)   Is substantially without human habitation; and
      (3)   Contains features of ecological, geographical, scientific,
educational, scenic or historical value.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.04)
§ 153.06  NATURAL PRESERVE AREAS.
   The following areas within the township have been accepted by the township
as a natural preserve area: Miller Woods; the legal description is as follows:
Part of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 29, T. 1 S., R. 8 E., Plymouth Township,
Wayne County, Michigan described as:
Commencing at the Southwest corner of said Section 29 running thence along the
South line of said Section also being the centerline of Powell Road S. 89
degrees 58' 30" E. 556.16 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING; thence N. 01 degrees
29' 36" E. 559.29 feet; thence S. 89 degrees 36' 43" E. 749.36 feet; thence 00
degrees 16' 00" W. 593.68 feet; and thence N. 89 degrees 58' 30" W. 762.20 feet
along the South line of said Section 29 to the POINT OF BEGINNING. Containing
10.3 acres, more or less. Subject to the rights of the public in the Southerly
60 feet in Powell Road and subject to an easement over the Southerly 80 feet
for the Michigan Bell Telephone Company.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.05)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § XII-3.06)
CHAPTER 154:  PRIVATE ROAD CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definition
   
154.03   Construction standards; pavement, drainage and easement requirements
   
154.04   Testing
   
154.05   Maintenance standards; maintenance agreement
   
154.06   Maintenance obligation; maintenance by township; costs and expenses
   
154.07   Site plan required
   
154.08   Time of construction
   
154.09   Street signs
   
154.10   Scope
 
   
154.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, as amended, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1
through 257.923, as amended
§ 154.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to set minimum standards for the
construction and maintenance of private roads in the township which are not
intended, now or in the future, to be dedicated to the public; and to provide
penalties for the violation hereof.
   (B)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to those vehicular
accessways which, by definition of this chapter, may be classified as private
roads and may be required to obtain site plan approval under the township’s
zoning ordinance such as multiple family projects, cluster housing projects and
the like, as well as private roads which may be created as a result of the
division of lots and/or parcels.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.00)
§ 154.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE ROAD. For the purpose of this chapter only, shall mean a privately
owned and maintained roadway providing access to more than one residence upon
which persons other then the owners thereof may also travel and whereby public
and private vehicles may be requested from time to time by the owners, to use
the roadway to provide services such as fire protection, waste collection,
common carrier delivery services and other public and private services which
utilize heavy trucks.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.01)
§ 154.03  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; PAVEMENT, DRAINAGE AND EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All private roads shall be constructed in accordance with the latest
edition of the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) standards
specifications for construction.
   (B)   Pavement, drainage and easement requirements are as follows.
      (1)   If the private road services two to four residences one of the
following minimum construction standards must be utilized.
         (a)   An asphalt roadway of minimum width of 20 feet, with a minimum
surface thickness of one and one-half-inch MDOT Mixture 36A and one and one-
half-inch MDOT Mixture 13A, and laid on an eight-inch minimum thick base
course, placed in two compacted four-inch layers of MDOT specification 22A or
equivalent, as approved by the Township Engineer. Road drainage shall be
obtained as described in division (B)(1)(e) below.
         (b)   A concrete roadway, consisting of portland cement concrete, of
minimum width of 20 feet, with six-inch plain concrete MDOT Grade P1 placed on
prepared subgrade. Pavement jointing shall be according to the Portland Cement
Association’s recommendations.
         (c)   Full depth asphalt roadway, of minimum width of 20 feet,
consisting of two inches MDOT Mixture 36A wearing course placed over two
courses of three and one-half inches each, MDOT Mixture 13A placed over a
prepared subgrade.
         (d)   Access roads with a fire hydrant must provide a minimum width of
26 feet along the entire length of the road for a distance of 20 feet on either
side of the hydrant unless otherwise approved by the Township Board.
         (e)   Notwithstanding the above construction standards, with the
approval of the Township Board, the asphalt or concrete roadway may be a
minimum of 16 feet with two foot load-bearing shoulders. Asphalt and concrete
surfaces shall meet the above specifications (division (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)
(c) above), and shoulders shall be constructed of gravel or an equivalent
material capable of supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus weighing at
least 75,000 pounds.
         (f)   Drainage for the above sections shall be provided by concrete
curb and gutter, or shoulder and open ditch.
            1.   Concrete curb and gutter shall be MDOT detail C-4 with
concrete mixture MDOT Grade P1.
            2.   Minimum grade shall be 0.50%, maximum grade 6.00%. Crown for
all roads shall be 2.00%.
            3.   Shoulders shall be three feet wide by a minimum four inches
thick MDOT 23A aggregate, on each side of road. Ditch section shall be seven
feet wide with centerline of ditch no more than 20 inches below centerline of
road. Two foot load-bearing shoulders provided under the 16-foot pavement
option (43.030.B.1.d) may be included as part of the above-required three foot
shoulders for drainage.
         (g)   The above minimum specifications shall not be construed as a
substitute for sufficient pavement thickness where traffic conditions and/or
soil conditions require more substantial pavement designs. Design shall be
according to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) standards. Regardless of the material chosen, the design
engineer shall furnish a complete design analysis of the pavement section
chosen to confirm the adequacy of the design and to demonstrate that the design
meets or exceeds the minimum requirements specified.
         (h)   The applicant must provide a layout plan of sufficient detail to
show how each parcel shall be serviced by utilities:
            1.   The private easement for the roadway shall be a minimum of 60
feet wide in order to provide space for surface drainage, construction and
maintenance of public utilities, including but not limited to, water and sewer.
However, easements shall be wider than 60 feet if necessary to comply with
standards of the most recently adopted version of the International Fire Code
and its Appendices; and
            2.   If public utilities are not required to occupy the easement, a
minimum easement width of 30 feet is required; however, easements shall be
wider than 30 feet if necessary to comply with standards of the most recently
adopted version of the International Fire Code and its Appendices.
      (2)   If the private road services five or more residences, then the
following minimum construction standards must be utilized.
         (a)   An asphalt roadway of minimum width of 26 feet, with a minimum
surface thickness of one and one-half-inch MDOT Mixture 36A and one and one-
half-inch MDOT Mixture 13A and laid on an eight inch minimum thick base course,
placed in two compacted four inch layers of MDOT specification 22A or
equivalent, as approved by the Township Engineer. Road drainage shall be
obtained as described in division (B)(2)(e) below.
         (b)   A concrete roadway, consisting of portland cement concrete, of
minimum width of 26 feet, with six-inch plain concrete MDOT Grade P1 placed on
prepared subgrade. Pavement jointing shall be according to the Portland Cement
Association’s recommendations.
         (c)   Full depth asphalt roadway, of minimum width of 26 feet,
consisting of two inches MDOT Mixture 36A wearing course placed over two
courses of three and one-half inches each, MDOT Mixture 13A placed over a
prepared subgrade.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the above construction standards, with the
approval of the Township Board, an asphalt or concrete roadway may be a minimum
of 22 feet with two foot load-bearing shoulders. Asphalt and concrete surfaces
shall meet the above specifications (divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(c)
above), and shoulders shall be constructed of gravel or an equivalent material
capable of supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus weighing at least
75,000 pounds.
         (e)   Drainage for the above sections shall be provided by concrete
curb and gutter, or shoulder and open ditch.
            1.   Concrete curb and gutter shall be MDOT detail C-4 with
concrete mixture MDOT Grade P1.
            2.   Minimum grade shall be 0.50%, maximum grade 6%. Crown for all
roads shall be 2%.
            3.   Shoulders shall be three feet wide by a minimum four inches
thick MDOT 23A aggregate, on each side of road. Ditch section shall be seven
feet wide with centerline of ditch no more than 20 inches below centerline of
road. Two foot load-bearing shoulders provided with the 22-foot pavement option
(division (B)(2)(d) above) may be included as part of the required three foot
shoulders for drainage.
         (f)   These minimum standards are not to be construed as substitutes
for good engineering design for private roads where traffic loads, horizontal
alignment, vertical alignment, soil conditions, intersections and other site
features warrant the use of roadway standards for state or county roads. The
designs shall be prepared by a licensed engineer analyzing the conditions as
listed above, but not limited to those above, to determine adequate pavement
thickness, width and alignment. Regardless of the material chosen, the design
engineer shall furnish a complete design analysis of the pavement section
chosen to confirm the adequacy of the design and to demonstrate that the design
meets or exceeds the minimum requirements specified.
         (g)   The private easement for the roadway shall be a minimum of 60
feet wide in order to provide space for construction and maintenance of public
utilities, including, but not limited to, sewer and water. However, easements
shall be wider than 60 feet, if necessary to comply with the standards of the
most recently adopted version of the International Fire Code and Appendices.
         (h)   In case of multiple-family, cluster housing and the like, a
separate easement for private roadways may not be required. This aspect will be
reviewed by the Township Engineer or consultant, as well as the Township Fire
Chief, during the site plan review process and recommendations will be made to
the Planning Commission. In all cases, access shall be provided as required by
the most recently adopted version of the International Fire Code and
Appendices.
      (3)   Site drainage: all pavement and adjacent properties shall be
drained in a manner that conforms to the grading, drainage and surface
standards of the township. Further, the drainage methods used shall be
consistent with the county storm water management ordinance.
      (4)   Vertical clearance: the vertical clearance above all access roads
shall be a minimum height of 13 feet and six inches and maintained as such.
      (5)   Design requirements: including the standards above, all access
roads shall meet the following requirements to be in compliance with the
Township Fire Code:
 
Length        Min. Pavement Width            Turnaround Required
0—150 feet  20 feet                        None
                                             Turnaround required from the
              20 feet unless a hydrant is    following:
151—500 feetpresent, the width shall be 26 1. 120 feet hammerhead;
              feet for a distance of 20 feet 2. Y turn; or
              on either side of the hydrant  3. 96 feet pavement diameter cul-
                                             de-sac
                                             Turnaround required from the
                                             following:
501—750 feet26 feet                        1. 120 feet hammerhead;
                                             2. Y turn; or
                                             3. 96 feet pavement diameter cul-
                                             de-sac
Over 750 feet Special approval required
 
(Prior Code, § XII-4.02)
§ 154.04  TESTING.
   (A)   The project owner/developer shall secure the services of an
independent testing laboratory for the quality control testing for all backfill
and earth work compaction density control and all sampling and testing of
concrete, asphalt and aggregate.
   (B)   Before a certificate of occupancy (temporary or final) is issued for a
project, owner/developer of the property must submit certified copies of all
test results, plus a certification from a registered civil engineer certifying
the following.
      (1)   All subgrades have proper compaction and have been established at
proper design grade.
      (2)   All utilities within the road proper and/or within close proximity
of the pavement area have been compacted to the specifications set forth by the
project designer and also in accordance with township standards.
      (3)   All aggregate base courses are of specified materials, depth and
compaction.
      (4)   All asphalt base courses have been installed at proper temperature,
thickness and compaction.
      (5)   All asphalt surface courses have been applied at proper
temperature, thickness and compaction.
      (6)   All concrete paving areas have been installed to proper thickness
and all standard tests, such as slump and strength tests, have been run and are
acceptable.
      (7)   All control joints and expansion joints, necessary and required,
have been properly installed.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.03)
§ 154.05  MAINTENANCE STANDARDS; MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Maintenance of private roads including, but not limited to, filling
chuck holes, regrading, repaving, resurfacing and the removal of snow shall be
the sole responsibility of abutting property owners.
   (B)   Owners or developers of property to be serviced by a private road
shall execute an agreement to provide for the continued maintenance of the road
which document shall be binding upon future owners of the property and shall be
deemed an obligation running with the land. The document shall be provided
prior to the land split forwarded to the county for recording. The obligation
to provide the document shall be a condition of any land split approval.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.04)
§ 154.06  MAINTENANCE OBLIGATION; MAINTENANCE BY TOWNSHIP; COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Each owner of property to be serviced by a private road shall
participate equally in the cost of maintenance.
   (B)   If the owners fail to properly maintain the road, the township has the
right, but not the duty, to do so and may charge the owners for all costs and
expenses incurred.
   (C)   Payment of the charges shall be due upon written demand by the
township to the owners at the address set forth on the tax rolls.
   (D)   In addition to other methods of collection, the township shall have
the right to place the assessment on the township tax roll and to collect the
assessment in the same manner as any property tax or assessment.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.05)
§ 154.07  SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   If a private road will be required to service one or more parcels which are
to be created by the division of land for building purposes, a site plan shall
be required to be submitted in conjunction with the land split application. The
site plan shall show, as a minimum, existing grades, proposed road grades,
proposed house grades, yard setback lines, road location, road design
(vertical, horizontal and cross-section), soil conditions and any other data
the township or its representative deems necessary to evaluate the proposal. No
split or land division shall be approved until the above-referenced site plan
is approved by the township or its representative.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.06)
§ 154.08  TIME OF CONSTRUCTION.
   No certificate of occupancy (temporary or final) shall be issued to any
parcel which is served by a private road until the full road intended to
service all parcels has been installed and approved.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.07)
§ 154.09  STREET SIGNS.
   The abutting property owners served by the private road shall be responsible
for installing and maintaining a street sign properly identifying the name of
the private road and the fact that the road is private. All street signs shall
be in accordance with the latest standards of the county for size, type,
materials, location and construction. All private street names shall be
approved by the Township Fire Chief and Township Police Chief prior to
installation of the sign.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.08)
§ 154.10  SCOPE.
   The chapter shall be deemed to include and apply to all projects that have
not received final approval as of the date of adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.09)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § XII-4.10)
CHAPTER 155:  STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE ADMINISTRATION
AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
155.01   State Construction Code
   
155.02   Administration and enforcement of State Construction Code
   
155.03   Enforcing agency designation; State Construction Code
   
155.04   Township Attorney; State Construction Code
   
155.05   Code Enforcement Officer; State Construction Code
   
155.06   Retention of fines; State Construction Code
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, as amended
§ 155.01  STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Charter Township of Plymouth State
Construction Code Administration and Enforcement Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.00)
§ 155.02  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   Pursuant to § 8b (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b) of the State Construction Code, the
Board of Trustees of the township does hereby assume responsibility for
administration and enforcement of the State Construction Code within the
township.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.01)
§ 155.03  ENFORCING AGENCY DESIGNATION; STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   Pursuant to § 8b(6) (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6)) of the State Construction
Code, the Building Official of the township is hereby designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under the
State Construction Code.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.02)
§ 155.04  TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY; STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   Pursuant to § 8b(2) (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(2)) of the State Construction
Code, the Township Attorney, as the chief legal officer for the township, may
issue complaints and warrants and prosecute for violations of the State
Construction Code with the same power and authority as for prosecuting local
ordinance violations.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.03)
§ 155.05  CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   Pursuant to § 8b(11) (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(11)) of the State Construction
Code, the Township Enforcement Officer, whose authorities and duties are
established by
Chapter 30, is hereby authorized to investigate violations of the State
Construction Code, serve notices of violation of the State Construction Code;
serve appearance tickets or uniform law citations as authorized by state
statute; appear in court or other judicial proceedings to assist in the
prosecution of any code violations; prepare cases for prosecution for
violations of the State Construction Code and other State Construction Code
enforcement duties as may be delegated by the above described enforcement
agency/building official.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.04)
§ 155.06  RETENTION OF FINES; STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   The township elects to retain any fines imposed upon conviction for
violation(s) of the State Construction Code upon prosecution of persons under
this chapter and § 23(3) (M.C.L.A. § 125.1523(3)) of the State Construction
Code.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.05)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any other
legal entity who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than
90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § XII-5.06)
CHAPTER 156:  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
156.01   Agency designated
   
156.02   Code appendix enforced
   
156.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01  AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6)) of Public Act 230 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended, the Building Official of the
township is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibility of the township under Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended. The
township assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the
Act throughout the corporate limits of the community adopting this chapter.
(Prior Code, § XII-7.00)
§ 156.02  CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) (M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6)) or Public Act 230 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended, Appendix G of the State
Building Code shall be enforced by the enforcing agency within the township.
(Prior Code, § XII-7.01)
§ 156.03  DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled Wayne County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions) Flood Insurance Study and
dated February 2, 2012 and the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel number
(s) of 26163C0020E, 26163C0038E, 26163C0039E, 26163C0045E, 26163C0185E,
26163C0201E, 26163C0202E and 26163C0210E, and dated February 2, 2012 are
adopted by reference for the purposes of administration of the State
Construction Code, and declared to be a part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan
Building Code, and to provide the content of the “Flood Hazards” section of
Table R301.2(1) of the State Residential Code.
(Prior Code, § XII-7.02)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person, corporation, partnership or any other
legal entity who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than
90 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § XII-7.03)
CHAPTER 157:  HISTORIC DISTRICT
Section
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Scope, purpose and intent
   
157.03   Definitions
   
157.04   Establishing, modifying or eliminating historic districts
   
157.05   Historic District Commission
   
157.06   Commission meetings, record keeping and procedure
   
157.07   Historic District Study Committee and Study Committee report
   
157.08   Procedure to creation of historic districts
   
157.09   Permit applications
   
157.10   Ordinary maintenance
   
157.11   Review by the Commission
   
157.12   Appeal of a Commission decision
   
157.13   Work without a permit
   
157.14   Demolition by neglect
   
157.15   Emergency moratorium
   
157.16   Acceptance of gifts or grants
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Historic District Ordinance of the
Charter Township of Plymouth”.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.02  SCOPE, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to foster the preservation of historic
structures and places within the township by enabling owners to voluntarily
seek the creation of historic districts for their properties under applicable
laws of the state. The purpose is also to safeguard property rights by
requiring approval of a proposed historic district from each of the property
owners within the proposed historic district.
   (B)   Historic preservation is hereby declared to be a public purpose and
the Board of Trustees of the township may hereby regulate, in compliance with
this chapter the construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation
and demolition of resources in historic districts within the township limits.
   (C)   The intent of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the township by preserving districts
which reflect elements of its history, architecture, archaeology, engineering
or culture;
      (2)   Stabilize and improve property values in each district and the
surrounding areas;
      (3)   Foster civic beauty;
      (4)   Strengthen the local economy; and
      (5)   Promote the use of historic districts for the education, pleasure
and welfare of the citizens of the township and of the state.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance establish one or more historic
districts. All historic districts shall be administered by the Historic
District Commission pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Work that changes the detail of a resource but does not change
its basic size or shape.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The written approval of a permit application
for work that is appropriate and does not adversely affect a resource.
   COMMISSION. The Historic District Commission of the Charter Township of
Plymouth.
   COMMITTEE. The Commission acting as a historic district study committee
under this chapter.
   DEMOLITION. The razing or destruction, whether entirely or in part, of a
resource and includes, but is not limited to, demolition by neglect.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT. Neglect in maintaining, repairing or securing a
resource that results in deterioration of an exterior feature of the resource
or the loss of structural integrity of the resource.
   DENIAL. The written rejection of a permit application for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system designed to detect and annunciate the presence
of fire or by-products of fire. FIRE ALARM SYSTEM includes smoke alarms.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, or group of areas, not necessarily having
contiguous boundaries, that contains one resource or a group of resources that
are related by history, architecture, archaeology, engineering or culture.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The identification, evaluation, establishment and
protection of resources significant in history, architecture, archaeology,
engineering or culture.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. A publicly or privately owned building, structure, site,
object, feature or open space that is significant in the history, architecture,
archaeology, engineering or culture of the Charter Township of Plymouth, State
of Michigan or the United States.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED. The written permission to issue a permit for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource, pursuant to a finding
under M.C.L.A. § 399.205(6).
   OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land, a naturally landscaped area, or a formal or
human-made landscaped area that provides a connective link or buffer between
other resources.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Keeping a resource unimpaired and in good condition
through ongoing minor intervention, undertaken from time to time, in its
exterior condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not change the external
appearance of the resource except through the elimination of the usual and
expected effects of weathering. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not constitute work
for the purposes of this chapter.
   PROPOSED HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, or group of areas not necessarily
having contiguous boundaries, that has delineated boundaries and that is under
review by the Historic District Study Committee for the purpose of making a
recommendation as to whether it should be established as a historic district or
added to an established historic district.
   REPAIR. To restore a decayed or damaged resource to good or sound condition
by any process. A repair that changes the external appearance of a resource
constitutes work for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESOURCE. One or more publicly or privately owned historic or non-historic
buildings, structures, sites, objects, features or open spaces located within a
historic district.
   SMOKE ALARM. A single-station or multiple-station alarm responsive to smoke
and not connected to a system.
      (1)   MULTIPLE-STATION ALARM. Two or more single-station alarms that are
capable of interconnection such that actuation of one alarm causes all
integrated separate audible alarms to operate.
      (2)   SINGLE-STATION ALARM. An assembly incorporating a detector, the
control equipment and the alarm sounding device into a single unit, operated
from a power supply either in the unit or obtained at the point of
installation.
   WORK. Construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation or
demolition.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.04  ESTABLISHING, MODIFYING OR ELIMINATING HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may at any time, upon recommendation of the
Commission, establish by ordinance a historic district, including a proposed
district previously considered and rejected, may modify boundaries of an
existing historic district, or may eliminate an existing historic district.
Before establishing, modifying or eliminating a historic district, the
Commission shall act as a Historic District Study Committee and shall follow
the procedures as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   In considering elimination of a historic district, the Commission
shall follow the procedures set forth in § 399.203(1) through (3) of Public Act
169 of 1970, as amended, for the issuance of a preliminary report, holding a
public hearing, and issuing a final report but with the intent of showing one
or more of the following.
      (1)   The historic district has lost those physical characteristics that
enabled the establishment of the district.
      (2)   The historic district was not significant in the way previously
defined.
      (3)   The historic district was established pursuant to defective
procedures.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.05  HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission of the township is hereby
established. Each member of the Commission shall reside within the township
limits. The Commission shall consist of seven members. Each member shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees. A majority of the members shall have a
clearly demonstrated interest in or knowledge of historic preservation. Initial
members shall be appointed within six months after the ordinance establishing
the Commission is enacted. Members shall be appointed for a term of three
years, except the initial appointments of three members for a term of two years
and two members for a term of one year. Subsequent appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members shall be eligible for reappointment. In the event of
a vacancy on the Commission, interim appointments shall be made by the Board of
Trustees within 60 calendar days to complete the unexpired term of such
position. Two members shall be appointed from a list submitted by duly
organized local historic preservation organizations. If such a person is
available for appointment, one member shall be an architect who has two years
of architectural experience or who is duly registered in the state.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may by resolution prescribe powers and duties of
the Commission, in addition to but not in violation of those prescribed in this
chapter, that foster historic preservation activities, projects and programs in
the township. The Board of Trustees may provide procedures for terminating an
appointment due to the acts or omissions of the member.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.06  COMMISSION MEETINGS, RECORD KEEPING AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet at least quarterly, if there is business to
be considered, or more frequently at the call of the Chairperson of the
Commission.
   (B)   The business that the Commission may perform shall be conducted at a
public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of
1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, as amended. Public notice of the
date, time and place of the meeting shall be given in the manner required by
Public Act 267. A meeting agenda shall be part of the notice and shall include
a listing of each permit application to be reviewed or considered by the
Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall keep a record of its proceedings and actions. A
writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or retained by the
Commission in the performance of an official function shall be made available
to the public in compliance with the Freedom of Information, Public Act 442 of
1976,  being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq., as amended.
   (D)   The Commission shall adopt design review standards and guidelines to
carry out its duties under this Act.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.07  HISTORIC DISTRICT STUDY COMMITTEE AND STUDY COMMITTEE REPORT.
   (A)   The Commission shall act as the Historic District Study Committee for
purposes of this chapter and the laws of the state.
   (B)   The Study Committee shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Conduct a photographic inventory of resources within each proposed
historic district following procedures established by the State Historic
Preservation Office of the Michigan Historical Center;
      (2)   Conduct basic research of each proposed historic district and
historic resources located within that district;
      (3)   Determine the total number of historic and non-historic resources
within a proposed historic district and the percentage of historic resources of
that total. In evaluating the significance of historic resources, the Committee
shall be guided by the selection criteria for evaluation issued by the United
States Secretary of the Interior for inclusion of resources in the National
Register of Historic Places, as set forth in 36 C.F.R. part 60, and criteria
established or approved by the State Historic Preservation Office;
      (4)   Prepare a preliminary Historic District Study Committee report that
addresses at a minimum all of the following:
         (a)   The charge of the Committee;
         (b)   The composition of Committee membership;
         (c)   The historic district(s) studied;
         (d)   The boundaries of each proposed historic district in writing and
on maps;
         (e)   The history of each proposed historic district; and
         (f)   The significance of each district as a whole, as well as a
sufficient number of its individual resources to fully represent the variety of
resources found within the district, relative to the evaluation criteria.
      (5)   The Committee shall transmit copies of the preliminary report for
review and recommendations to the Planning Commission, the State Historic
Preservation Office, the Michigan Historical Commission and the State Historic
Preservation Review Board;
      (6)   The Committee shall make copies of the preliminary report available
to the public pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 399.203(4);
      (7)   Not less than 60 calendar days after the transmittal of the
preliminary report, the Committee shall hold a public hearing in compliance
with Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, as
amended. Public notice of the time, date and place of the hearing shall be
given in the manner required by Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended. Written
notice shall be mailed by first-class mail not less than 14 calendar days prior
to the hearing to the owners of properties within the proposed historic
district, as listed on the most current tax rolls. The report shall be made
available to the public in compliance with the State Freedom of Information
Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, as amended; and
      (8)   After the date of the public hearing, the Committee and the Board
of Trustees shall have not more than one year, unless otherwise authorized by
the Board of Trustees, to take the following actions.
         (a)   The Committee shall prepare and submit a final report with its
recommendations and the recommendations, if any, to the Planning Commission,
the State Historic Preservation Office, the State Historical Commission, the
State Historic Preservation Review Board and the Board of Trustees as to the
establishment of a historic district. If the recommendation is to establish a
historic district, the final report shall include a draft of the proposed
ordinance.
         (b)   After receiving a final report that recommends the establishment
of a historic district, the Board of Trustees, at its discretion, may introduce
and approve or reject an ordinance. If the Board of Trustees approves an
ordinance establishing one or more historic districts, the Clerk of the
township shall file a copy of the ordinance, including a legal description of
the property or properties located within each historic district, with the
Register of Deeds. The Board of Trustees shall not pass an ordinance
establishing a contiguous historic district less than 60 days after a majority
of the property owners within the proposed historic district, as listed on the
tax rolls of the local unit, have approved the establishment of the historic
district pursuant to a written petition.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.08  PROCEDURE TO CREATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   The procedure for the creation of a historic district in the township shall
be only as follows. The owner, or owners, of a property, structure or place
shall submit a written application to the Building Department of the township
for creation of a historic district. The application shall be forwarded to the
Committee within two business days of its submission. The Committee shall,
within 90 days, meet to consider the application. In considering the
application, the Committee shall follow the procedures set forth in §
157.07.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.09  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before any work affecting the exterior
appearance of a resource is performed within a historic district. The person,
individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization, institution or agency
of government proposing to do that work shall file an application for a permit
with the Building Department of the township.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Building Department shall
immediately refer the application, along with all required supporting materials
that make the application complete, to the Commission.
   (C)   A permit shall not be issued and proposed work shall not proceed until
the Commission has acted on the application by issuing a certificate of
appropriateness or a notice to proceed as prescribed in this chapter. The
Commission shall not issue a certificate of appropriateness unless the
applicant certifies in the application that the property where work will be
undertaken has, or will have before the proposed project completion date, a
fire alarm system or a smoke alarm complying with the requirements of the
Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act, Public Act 230 of
1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.
   (D)   The Commission shall file certificates of appropriateness, notices to
proceed and denials of applications for permits with the Building Department. A
permit shall not be issued until the Commission has acted as prescribed by this
chapter.
   (E)   If an application is for work that will adversely affect the exterior
of a resource, and the Commission determines that the alteration or loss of
that resource will adversely affect the public interest of the township, the
state or the nation, the Commission shall attempt to establish with the owner
of the resource an economically feasible plan for the preservation of the
resource.
   (F)   The failure of the Commission to act on an application within 60
calendar days after the date a complete application is filed, unless an
extension is agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Commission shall
be considered to constitute approval.
   (G)   The Commission may charge a reasonable fee to process a permit
application.
   (H)   If a permit application is denied, the decision shall be binding on
the Building Department and the township. A denial shall be accompanied by a
written explanation by the Commission of the reasons for denial and, if
appropriate, a notice that an application may be re-submitted for Commission
review when the suggested changes have been made. The denial shall also include
the notification of the applicant’s right to appeal to the State Historic
Preservation Review Board and thereafter, to the circuit court.
   (I)   Work within a historic district shall be permitted through the
issuance of a notice to proceed by the Commission if any of the following
conditions prevail and if the proposed work can be demonstrated by a finding of
the Commission to be necessary to substantially improve or correct any of the
following conditions.
      (1)   The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to
the structure’s occupants.
      (2)   The resource is a deterrent to a major improvement program that
will be of substantial benefit to the community and the applicant proposing the
work has obtained all necessary planning and zoning approvals, financing and
environmental clearances.
      (3)   Retaining the resource will cause undue financial hardship to the
owner when a governmental action, an act of God or other events beyond the
owner’s control created the hardship, and all feasible alternatives to
eliminate the financial hardship, which may include offering the resource for
sale at its fair market value or moving the resource to a vacant site within
the historic district, have been attempted and exhausted by the owner.
      (4)   Retaining the resource is not in the interest of the majority of
the community.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.10  ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance
or repair of a resource within a historic district or to prevent work on any
resource under a permit issued by the Building Department or other duly
delegated authority before the chapter was enacted.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.11  REVIEW BY THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall review and act upon only exterior features of a
resource and shall not review and act upon interior arrangements unless
specifically requested to do so by the owner of the resource or unless interior
work will cause visible change to the exterior of the resource.
   (B)   The Commission shall not disapprove an application due to
considerations not prescribed in M.C.L.A. § 399.205(3).
   (C)   In reviewing plans, the Commission shall follow the U.S. Secretary of
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and guidelines for rehabilitating
historic buildings as set forth in 36 C.F.R. part 67. Design review standards
and guidelines that address special design characteristics of historic
districts administered by the Commission may be followed if they are equivalent
in guidance to the Secretary of Interior’s Standards and guidelines and are
established or approved by the State Historic Preservation Office.
   (D)   In reviewing plans, the Commission shall also consider all of the
following:
      (1)   The historic or architectural value and significance of the
resource and its relationship to the historic value of the surrounding area;
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of the resource to
the rest of the resource and to the surrounding area;
      (3)   The general compatibility of the design, arrangement, texture and
materials proposed to be used;
      (4)   Other factors, such as aesthetic value, that the Commission finds
relevant; and
      (5)   Whether the applicant has certified in the application that the
property where the work will be undertaken has, or will have before the
proposed project completion date, a fire alarm system or a smoke alarm
complying with the requirements of the Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State
Construction Code Act, Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to
125.1531.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.12  APPEAL OF A COMMISSION DECISION.
   An applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Commission concerning a permit
application may file an appeal with the State Historic Preservation Review
Board. The appeal shall be filed within 60 calendar days after the decision is
furnished to the applicant. The permit applicant may submit all or part of the
permit applicant’s evidence and arguments in written form. The State Historic
Preservation Review Board shall consider an appeal at its first regularly
scheduled meeting after receiving the appeal. A permit applicant aggrieved by
the decision of the State Historic Preservation Review Board may appeal the
decision to the circuit court for the county.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.13  WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   When work has been done upon a resource without a permit, and the Commission
finds that the work does not qualify for a certificate of appropriateness, the
Commission may require an owner to restore the resource to the condition that
the resource was in before the inappropriate work or to modify the work so that
it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the owner does not comply
with the restoration or modification requirement within a reasonable time, the
Commission may seek an order from the circuit court for the county to require
the owner to restore the resource to its former condition or to modify the work
so that it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the owner does
not comply or cannot comply with the order of the court, the Commission may
direct the Building Department to enter the property and conduct work necessary
to restore the resource to its former condition or modify the work so that it
qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness in accordance with the court’s
order. The costs of the work done shall be charged to the owner, and may be
levied as a special assessment against the property. When acting pursuant to an
order of the circuit court, the Building Department may enter a property for
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.14  DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   (A)   Upon a finding by the Commission that a resource within a historic
district is threatened with demolition by neglect, the Commission may do either
of the following:
      (1)   Require the owner of the resource to repair all conditions
contributing to demolition by neglect; or
      (2)   If the owner does not make repairs within a reasonable time, the
Commission may authorize the Building Department to enter the property and make
such repairs as necessary to prevent demolition by neglect.
   (B)   The costs of the work shall be charged to the owner, and may be levied
as a special assessment against the property. The Building Department may enter
the property for purposes of this section upon obtaining an order from the
circuit court for the county.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.15  EMERGENCY MORATORIUM.
   If the Board of Trustees determines that pending work will cause irreparable
harm to resources located within a historic district, the Board of Trustees may
by resolution declare an emergency moratorium on all such work for a period not
to exceed six months. The Board of Trustees may extend the emergency moratorium
for an additional period not to exceed six months, upon finding that the threat
of irreparable harm to a resource or resources is still present. Any pending
permit application concerning a resource subject to an emergency moratorium may
be summarily denied.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.16  ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS OR GRANTS.
   The Board of Trustees may accept state or federal grants for historic
preservation purposes, may participate in state and federal programs that
benefit historic preservation and may accept public or private gifts for
historic preservation purposes. The Board of Trustees may by resolution
delegate to the Commission the administration of grants, gifts and program
responsibilities.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
§ 157.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution or agency of government that violates this chapter is responsible
for a civil violation and may be fined not more than $5,000.
   (B)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution or agency of government that violates this chapter may be ordered
by the circuit court for the county to pay the costs to restore or replicate a
resource unlawfully constructed, added to, altered, repaired, moved, excavated
or demolished.
(Ord. 1016, Amendment 23, passed 4-23-2019)
CHAPTER 158:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Short title
   
158.002   Purpose
   
158.003   Legal basis
   
158.004   Scope
   
158.005   Administration
   
158.006   Schedule of fees
Definitions
   
158.020   Definitions
Procedure for the Preparation of Filing of Plats
   
158.035   Pre-preliminary procedure
   
158.036   Tentative preliminary plat procedure
   
158.037   Tentative preliminary plat requirements
   
158.038   Procedure
   
158.039   Approval of the tentative preliminary plat
   
158.040   Requirements for final preliminary plat approval
   
158.041   Distribution to authorities
   
158.042   Approval or denial by authorities
   
158.043   Approval of the final preliminary plat
   
158.044   Final plat procedure
Subdivision Design Standards
   
158.055   Streets and roads
   
158.056   General
   
158.057   Location
   
158.058   Specifications
   
158.059   Intersections
   
158.060   Pedestrian crosswalks
   
158.061   Easements
   
158.062   Monuments
   
158.063   Blocks
   
158.064   Lots
   
158.065   Planting strips
   
158.066   Reserve strips
   
158.067   Public sites and open spaces
   
158.068   Large scale developments
Subdivision Improvements
   
158.080   Purpose
   
158.081   Responsibility for plans
   
158.082   Procedure
   
158.083   Required public improvements
   
158.084   Optional public improvements
   
158.085   Guarantee of completion of improvements required by the township
   
158.086   Condition of township approval of final plat financial guarantees
   
158.087   Special agreements
   
158.088   Inspection of public improvements under construction
Division of Land in Recorded Plats
   
158.100   Basis for control
   
158.101   Partitioning permitted
   
158.102   Partitioning into two or more lots
Enforcement
   
158.115   Submission to and approval by the Board required
   
158.116   Plat approval deemed amendment
   
158.117   Metes and bounds platting
   
158.118   Sales contrary to requirements
   
158.119   Public water and sewer service
   
158.120   Fees
Variances
   
158.135   Permitted variances
   
158.136   Planned unit development variance
   
158.137   Application for variance
   
158.138   Variances subject to conditions
Amendments
   
158.150   Procedures
 
   
158.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, as amended (The Subdivision Control Act)
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq., as amended
   Similar provisions, see Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501
et seq., as amended
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Township Subdivision
Regulations”.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.00)
§ 158.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the subdivision
of land within the township in order to promote the safety, public health and
general welfare of the community.
   (B)   These regulations are specifically designed to:
      (1)   Provide for orderly growth and harmonious development of the
community, consistent with orderly growth policies;
      (2)   Secure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated street
systems with proper relation to major thoroughfares adjoining subdivisions and
public facilities;
      (3)   Achieve individual property lots of maximum utility and livability;
      (4)   Assure adequate provisions for water, drainage and sanitary sewer
facilities and other health requirements; and
      (5)   Plan for the provision of adequate recreational areas, school sites
and other public facilities.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.01)
§ 158.003  LEGAL BASIS.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority granted by the
Land Division Act, Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293,
as amended.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.02)
§ 158.004  SCOPE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision in the process of approval for which tentative approval of the
preliminary plat has been granted by the township prior to February 15, 1970,
provided that the final plat is approved by the Township Board on or before
January 1, 1971, except for the further dividing of lots. Nor is it intended by
this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with
existing provisions of other laws, ordinances or regulations or with private
restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreements
or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the township is a
party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon land than is
imposed or required by such existing provisions or any other ordinance of this
township, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.03)
§ 158.005  ADMINISTRATION.
   The approval provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the
Township Board in accordance with the Land Division Act, Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.04)
§ 158.006  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees for review of plats shall be established by resolution
of the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.05)
DEFINITIONS
§ 158.020  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare or service right-of-way not more than 30 feet
wide and not less than 20 feet wide at the rear or side lines of property and
affording only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
   BLOCK.
      (1)   Includes the property having frontage on the one side of a street
and lying between the two nearest intersecting streets or between the nearest
street and railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream or
between any of the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of
development.
      (2)   In case of a cul-de-sac street, a BLOCK shall include the property
on one side of the street lying between the one intercepting street and the
extension of the centerline of the cul-de-sac street through the property
facing the turn-around at the closed end of the street.
   BOARD. The Township Board of the Charter Township of Plymouth.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a street right-of-way
line, shore of a lake, edge of a stream or river bank established on a parcel
of land or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building
between the line and a right-of-way, other public area or the shore of a lake
or the edge of a stream or river bank.
   CLERK. The Township Clerk of the Charter Township of Plymouth.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Charter Township of Plymouth.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan shall mean the
Comprehensive Plan for the Charter Township of Plymouth as adopted by the
Township Planning Commission.
   CROSS-WALKWAY (PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY). Right-of-way dedicated to public use
which crosses a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and
properties.
   EASEMENT. A specific area of land over which liberty, privilege or advantage
is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation or some other particular
person or part of the public for specific uses and purposes and which shall be
designated as a “public” or “private” easement, depending on the nature of the
user.
   FLOODPLAIN. The area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other similar body of water which will be inundated by a
flood which can reasonably be expected for that region.
   GREENBELTS. A strip or parcel of land, privately restricted or publicly
dedicated as open space located between incompatible uses for the purpose of
protecting and enhancing the residential environment.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any structure incident to servicing or furnishing facilities
for a subdivision such as grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters,
driveway approaches, sidewalks, crosswalks, watermains and lines, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, culverts, bridges, utilities, lagoons, slips, waterways,
lakes, bays, canals and other appropriate items with appurtenant construction.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned industrial area designed specifically for
industrial use providing screened buffers, wider streets and turning movement
and safety lane roadway improvements, where necessary.
   LAND DIVISION ACT OF SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land which is described and
fixed in a recorded plat.
      (1)   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines, measured along the median between the side lot lines.
      (2)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured on a line perpendicular to the lot depth line and passing through the
intersection of the lot depth line and the building setback line.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Open space or recreational use set aside for the use of
the owners of lots participating in a unit development of residential lots; the
space may include private recreational facilities such as golf courses or
swimming pools, historic building sites, parks, parkway areas, ornamental
parks, extensive areas with tree cover, low land along streams or areas of
rough terrain which have natural features worthy of scenic preservation.
   OUTLOT. When included within the boundary of a recorded plat means a lot set
aside for purposes other than building site, park or other land dedicated to
public use or reserved to private use.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Control Act.
   PARKING SPACE. An area surfaced by use of either bituminous, oil aggregate,
stabilized gravel or equivalent, enclosed or unenclosed, not less than ten feet
wide by 20 feet long for each auto or motor vehicle together with a surfaced
driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting
ingress and egress of a motor vehicle.
   PLANNING COMMISSION ACT. Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3811
et seq., as amended, which is made a part hereof by this reference.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A plan designed to guide the
development of housing subdivisions which incorporate privately owned, open,
common areas and provide for the creation of means of maintaining the common
properties.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or a part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the final preliminary plat of the subdivision
prepared in conformance with the requirements of the Subdivision Control Act
and this chapter and made up in final form ready for approval and recording by
the County Register of Deeds.
      (2)   FINAL PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a
proposed subdivision of land submitted to an approving authority for purposes
of preliminary consideration.
      (3)   TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT. An informal map or sketch drawn to
scale indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision showing the existing
features of the site and its surroundings.
   PROPRIETOR, SUBDIVIDER or DEVELOPER. A natural person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation or combination of any of them which may hold any
recorded or unrecorded ownership interest in land. The PROPRIETOR is also
commonly referred to as the owner.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for public
use and made available for public use and acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, board
or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing to the public under
federal, state or municipal regulations electricity, gas, steam,
communications, telegraph, transportation or water.
   REPLAT. The process of changing of the map or plat which changes the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof. The legal dividing
of an outlot within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the exterior
boundaries of the outlot is not a REPLAT.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land reserved, used or to be used for a street, alley, walkway
or other public purposes.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, expressway, freeway, road, avenue, boulevard,
land, place or however otherwise designated. A STREET includes the land between
the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavements,
shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. Those streets of considerable continuity which are
used or may be used primarily for fast or heavy traffic.
      (2)   CONNECTOR STREET. Those streets used to carry traffic from minor
streets to arterial streets, including principal entrance streets to large
residential developments.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street of short length having one end
terminated by a vehicular turnaround and not extended into adjoining property.
      (4)   FREEWAY. Those streets designed for high speed, high volume through
traffic, with completely controlled access, no grade crossings and no private
driveway connections.
      (5)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street which is parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic and not carrying through traffic.
      (6)   MINOR STREET. A street which is intended primarily for access to
abutting properties.
      (7)   PARKWAY. A street designed for noncommercial, pleasure oriented
traffic moving at moderate speeds between and through scenic areas and parks.
      (8)   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating
the right-of-way of streets.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of
sale or lease for more than one year or of building development where the act
of division creates five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or
less in area or five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or less
in area are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT or LAND DIVISION ACT. Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance of the Charter Township of Plymouth.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.06)
PROCEDURE FOR THE PREPARATION OF FILING OF PLATS
§ 158.035  PRE-PRELIMINARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a
preliminary plat, the proprietor may meet informally with the Commission in
order that he or she may become familiar with these regulations and with the
proposals of the comprehensive development plan as they affect the area in
which his or her proposed subdivision is located. The proprietor shall
investigate and become aware of the following:
      (1)   The zoning of the area;
      (2)   Adequacy of existing schools and public open space;
      (3)   Relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing streets and
thoroughfares and any proposed street widenings;
      (4)   Availability of utilities; and
      (5)   Diversification in relationship of various buildings, structures
and open space under a residential unit development plan.
   (B)   Requirements. The proprietor may then submit to the Commission pre-
preliminary plans and data to include the following:
      (1)   General subdivision information; and
      (2)   Sketch plan showing the proposed layout of streets, lots and other
features in relation to existing conditions. The sketch may be made directly on
a print of the survey or on the topographic survey.
   (C)   Review. The Commission may review the pre-preliminary plans and
related data and offer any information which will aid the proprietor in
preparing a tentative preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.07)
§ 158.036  TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application. An application, in writing, shall be submitted to the
Clerk at least 15 days prior to the regular Planning Commission meeting along
with 15 copies of the tentative preliminary plat at a scale of not more than
100 feet to an inch and other related data.
   (B)   Fees. At the time of filing, the proprietor shall deposit with the
Clerk such sums of money as shall be required for engineering services in
relation to all preliminary plat work in accordance with the schedule of fees
and charges as established by resolution of the Township Board as required
under §
158.006.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.08)
§ 158.037  TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The plat shall show the subdivision’s entire development scheme, including
the area for immediate development and including the following:
   (A)   General layout of streets, blocks and lots;
   (B)   Existing conditions, location of all sound eight inch or greater trees
other than elms and characteristics and zoning of the land on and adjacent to
and on land within 200 feet of the proposed plat;
   (C)   Any general area set aside for schools, parks and other community
facilities;
   (D)   A letter from the surveyor concerning the general feasibility of the
land for subdividing; and
   (E)   Proof of ownership of the land proposed to be subdivided as may be
required by the Board of Commission.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.09)
§ 158.038  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Submittal. The proprietor shall submit the 15 copies of the tentative
preliminary plat to the Clerk 15 days before the next meeting of the Commission
and the Clerk shall place the tentative plat on the agenda of the next regular
meeting of the Commission for review.
   (B)   Plat review. The Commission or Subdivision Committee of the Commission
shall review the plat in reference to the comprehensive development plan, the
zoning ordinance and the standards of this ordinance and the most appropriate
use of the land.
   (C)   Technical review. The Commission shall transmit copies of the
tentative plat to the Township Engineer and Planning Consultant for their
technical review and to the Township Department and the School Board for review
and recommendations.
   (D)   Hearing. Any plat submitted to the Commission shall contain the name
and address of the applicant or his or her authorized representative to whom
notice of a public hearing shall be sent and no plat shall be acted on by the
Commission without affording a hearing thereon, as provided in § 71 of Public
Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., as amended. On request of
the Commission, the Clerk shall send notice by registered or certified mail to
the proprietor and to owners of land immediately adjoining the property to be
platted of the time and place the plat will be considered by the Commission.
The notice shall be sent not less than five days before the date fixed for the
hearing.
   (E)   Action on the plat. Following review of the tentative preliminary plat
and other material submitted for conformity thereof to these regulations and
negotiations with the proprietor on changes deemed advisable and the kind and
extent of improvements to be made by him or her, the Commission shall within 45
days act thereon as submitted or modified.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.10)
§ 158.039  APPROVAL OF THE TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Requirements. Before recommending approval of a tentative preliminary
plat of a proposed subdivision, the Commission shall find that the land covered
by the proposed subdivision is suitable both for development and the type of
development proposed in that:
      (1)   It can be safely used for building purposes without danger from
flood or from any other menace to health or safety, as determined by the
Township Engineers; and
      (2)   It can be served economically with public facilities and services
as in the opinion of the Commission or other particular agencies concerned
(such as, Township Engineer, County Health Department, Superintendent of
Schools, Water and Sewer Departments or districts having jurisdiction and the
like) are required by the type of development (residential, commercial or
industrial) and the circumstances of the particular case.
   (B)   Disapproval. If the tentative preliminary plat is disapproved by the
Commission, it shall make recommendations to the Board and record the reasons
in the minutes of the meeting. A copy of the minutes and a copy of the
tentative preliminary plat shall be forwarded to the Board and the proprietor.
   (C)   Conditional approval. If the Commission recommendation is a
conditional approval, the tentative preliminary plat shall not be forwarded to
the Board until such conditions are satisfied by the proprietor and the minutes
shall so state the conditions and its reasons therefore and so notify the
proprietor in writing.
   (D)   Approval. If the tentative preliminary plat meets the approval of the
Commission, it shall then be submitted to the Board for its approval. Plans
approved by the Commission and Board shall bear the signature of the
Chairperson of the Commission and the Clerk and one copy shall be filed in the
office of the Township Engineer, one copy in the file of the Commission and one
copy returned to the proprietor.
   (E)   Board approval. The Board, within 90 days from the date of filing,
shall approve and note its approval on the copy of the tentative preliminary
plat to be returned to the proprietor or set forth in writing its reasons for
rejection and requirements for approval.
   (F)   Approval confers right to proceed with final preliminary plat. Should
the Board approve the tentative preliminary plat, it shall be deemed to confer
upon the proprietor the right to proceed with the preparation of the final
preliminary plat.
   (G)   Approval is not approval of final preliminary plat. The approval of
the tentative preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final
preliminary plat. It shall be deemed as approval of the layout of the tentative
preliminary plat, which will act as a guide in the preparation of the final
preliminary plat.
   (H)   Time effective. Tentative approval of the Board shall be effective for
a period of one year. The final preliminary plat shall be submitted within one
year after approval of the tentative preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval
shall become null and void unless an extension of time is applied for, in
writing, and granted by the Board.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.11)
§ 158.040  REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Submittal. The proprietor shall submit 15 copies of the final
preliminary plat on a topographic map to the Clerk at least 15 days before a
meeting of the Commission. The proprietor shall also submit a written
application for approval of the final preliminary plat.
   (B)   Size and scale. The final preliminary plat may be on paper and shall
not be less than 24 inches by 36 inches at a scale of not less than one inch to
100 feet.
   (C)   Information required. The following shall be shown on the final
preliminary plat or submitted with it:
      (1)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the subdivider and the
surveyor preparing the plat;
      (3)   Location of the subdivision, giving the number of section, township
and range, and the name of the township and county;
      (4)   The names of abutting subdivisions;
      (5)   Statement of intended use of the proposed plat, such as:
residential, single-family, two-family and multiple housing; commercial;
industrial; recreational; or agricultural. Also, proposed sites, if any, for
multi-family dwellings, shopping centers, churches, industry and other non-
public uses exclusive of single-family dwellings. Also, any sites proposed for
parks, playgrounds, schools or other public uses;
      (6)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development, if the proposed
plat is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent development;
      (7)   A location map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area;
      (8)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent tracts;
      (9)   Streets, street names, right-of-way and roadway widths;
      (10)   Lot lines, lot numbers and the total number of lots;
      (11)   Contours shall be shown on the final preliminary plat at five-foot
intervals where slope is greater than 10% and two-foot intervals where slope is
10% or less;
      (12)   All sound trees, other than elms, eight-inch caliper or greater;
      (13)   Proposed and existing storm and sanitary sewers, watermains and
their respective profiles or indicate alternative methods;
      (14)   Fifteen copies of proposed protective covenants and deed
restrictions; and
      (15)   Right-of-way easements, showing location and purpose and, where
underground utilities are installed or required, it shall be the proprietor’s
responsibility to provide easements acceptable to utilities for water,
sanitary, storm, gas, electric, telephone and street lighting service. These
easements shall be recorded on the plat as private easements for public
utilities or easements provided by separate instrument.
   (D)   Preliminary engineering plans. The subdivider shall submit three sets
of preliminary engineering plans for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and
other required public improvements. The engineering plans shall contain enough
information and detail to enable the Planning Commission to make preliminary
determination as to conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable
township regulations and standards.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.12)
§ 158.041  DISTRIBUTION TO AUTHORITIES.
   The proprietor shall submit copies of the final preliminary plat to the
following authorities which may be concurrent or consecutive at the option of
the proprietor and before, after or concurrent with approval by the Board:
   (A)   Three copies to the Engineer or Chairperson of the County Road
Commission;
   (B)   Three copies to the County Drain Commission;
   (C)   Three copies to the Department of State Highways, if any of the
proposed subdivision includes or abuts a state trunk line highway or includes
streets or roads that connect with or lie within the right-of-way of state
trunk line highways;
   (D)   Two copies to the Conservation Department for information purposes, if
the land proposed to be subdivided abuts a lake or stream or abuts an existing
or proposed channel or lagoon affording access to a lake or stream where public
rights may be affected;
   (E)   Copies of the cover letters mailed with the above final preliminary
plats shall be sent to the State Treasurer;
   (F)   Two copies to the Water Resources Commission of the Department of
Conservation, if any of the subdivision lies wholly or in part within the
floodplain of a river, stream, creek or lake;
   (G)   Two copies to the Health Department having jurisdiction, if public
water and public sewers are not available and accessible to the land proposed
to be subdivided;
   (H)   Two copies to the County Plat Board;
   (I)   Two copies to the public utilities serving the area; and
   (J)   Two copies to the School Board for informational purposes.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.13)
§ 158.042  APPROVAL OR DENIAL BY AUTHORITIES.
   The various authorities shall, within 30 days of receipt of the final
preliminary plat, approve or reject the plat as provided for in §§ 111 to 119,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.111 through 560.119 of the Land Division Act, Public Act
288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.14)
§ 158.043  APPROVAL OF THE FINAL PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   General procedure. The proprietor shall submit to the Clerk a
certified list showing all authorities to whom a copy of the final preliminary
plat was submitted as required by Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293.
      (1)   The proprietor shall submit all approved copies of the final
preliminary plat to the Clerk after all necessary approvals have been secured
from the various authorities.
      (2)   The Clerk shall notify the Commission when all plats and
information regarding the final preliminary plat is complete.
      (3)   The Commission shall consider and review the final preliminary plat
its next meeting or within 15 days from the date of submission and recommend
approval or rejection to the Board and, if rejected, state the reasons.
      (4)   Board action: the Board, at its next meeting or within 20 days from
the date of submission, shall consider and approve it if the proprietor has met
all conditions laid down for approval of the final preliminary plat.
      (5) The Clerk shall promptly notify the proprietor of approval or
rejection in writing and, if rejected, to give the reasons. The Clerk shall
note all proceedings in the minutes of the meeting, which minutes shall be open
for inspection.
      (6)   Final preliminary plats thus approved by the Board permits the
proprietor to proceed to make an accurate survey of the property and prepare
the final plat.
   (B)   Approval not acceptance of subdivision. The approval of the final
preliminary plat shall not constitute an acceptance of the subdivision.
   (C)   Time effective. Approval of final preliminary plat under this section
shall confer upon the proprietor for a period of two years from date of
approval the conditional right that the general terms and conditions under
which approval was granted will not be changed. The two-year period may be
extended if applied for by the proprietor and granted by the Board in writing.
Written notice of the extension shall be sent by the Board to the other
approving authorities.
   (D)   Construction commencement. No installation or construction of
improvements shall be commenced before the final preliminary plat has received
final approval nor before the engineering plans have been approved by the
township and other governmental agencies having jurisdiction; provided,
however, where the Board finds that an undue hardship would otherwise result,
it may, by resolution, grant permission to the proprietor to proceed with
installation or construction of certain improvements in accordance with
approved engineering plans for off-site improvements when the improvements are
contained in easements granted to the township.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.15)
§ 158.044  FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE.
   When the final plat has been approved by the Drain Commissioner and the
County Road Commissioners, the proprietor shall submit to the Clerk one true
copy on polyester film of the plat and 12 additional paper prints of the plat
together with the filing and recording fee of $20.
   (A)   Conformity to final preliminary plat. The final plat shall conform
substantially to the final preliminary plat as approved and shall be prepared
and presented in accordance with the provisions of the Land Division Act,
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended,
or succeeding Acts and show the following.
      (1)   The plat shall make reference to any private restrictions which
shall accompany the plat and shall contain proper acknowledgment of proprietor
and mortgagees and land contract purchasers accepting the platting restrictions
and which shall be in proper form for recording. These restrictions shall
include a section requiring that rear and side yard drainage be maintained in
accordance with the grades established on the approved development plan.
      (2)   In addition to the above, the Commission will require a statement
from the proprietor indicating:
         (a)   Ownership of the property proposed to be subdivided as evidenced
by an abstract of title certified to date or, at the option of the proprietor,
a policy of title insurance;
         (b)   The private restrictions to be imposed upon the property after
subdividing in form for recording; and
         (c)   The proprietor of a plat shall furnish with the engineering
drawings a plan for electric lighting and telephone, including overhead and
underground services. The easements for the services shall be provided in the
plat and approved by the utilities.
   (B)   Planning Commission action. The Commission shall examine the final
plat for compliance with the final preliminary plat and required changes
thereof and shall approve or disapprove the plat at the next regular meeting or
within 20 days after submission thereof to it, provided the proprietor for the
Commission’s approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of
such period.
      (1)   Should the Commission find that the final plat does not conform
substantially to the previously approved final preliminary plat, or that it is
not acceptable, the Commission shall recommend to the Board that the final plat
be disapproved and returned to the proprietor with a letter expressing its
disapproval and its reasons therefor.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission’s recommendation is not received within
the time period referred to herein, the Board shall consider the plat approved
by the Commission and shall take action thereon.
   (C)   Board action on final plat. The Board shall review the plat and shall
approve or disapprove the plat at the next regular meeting or within 20 days of
the submission, unless this time requirement is waived in writing by the
proprietor.
      (1)   As a condition to approval of the final plat, the Board shall
require a cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or
surety bond running to the township for the full cost to insure the performance
of any contract relative to development of open space and any required
improvements within the time limit specified in the contract after approval of
the plat; provided, that the township shall rebate to the proprietor as work
progresses amounts of any cash deposits equal to the ratio of the work
completed to the entire project. In addition, the Board shall have received a
certificate from the County Road Commission that the proprietor has complied
with one of the following alternatives:
         (a)   All improvements have been installed in accordance with
requirements of the County Road Commission; and
         (b)   A security deposit has been filed with the Board of County Road
Commission to guarantee the improvements after the approval of the plat.
      (2)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the Board, the subsequent
approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Subdivision Control Act,
being Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. Two prints of
the final plat shall be presented to the Clerk, one copy to the Township
Engineer, one copy to the Planning Consultant, one copy to the Assessors office
and one copy to the Department of Buildings and Safety. The five polyester film
copies shall be forwarded to the Clerk of the County Plat Board along with the
filing fee.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.16)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 158.055  STREETS AND ROADS.
   All subdivisions shall be in harmony with the township comprehensive plan
and the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.17)
§ 158.056  GENERAL.
   The standards set forth in this chapter shall be minimum standards for
streets, roads and intersections. All streets shall be dedicated to public use.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.18)
§ 158.057  LOCATION.
   (A)   Street location and arrangements. When a major street plan has been
adopted, subdivision streets shall be required to conform to the plan.
   (B)   Local or minor streets. The streets shall be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
   (C)   Street continuation and extension. The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of existing streets from adjoining areas into new
subdivisions, unless otherwise approved by the Commission and the Board.
   (D)   Stub streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall be extended to the boundary
lines of the tract to make provision for the future projection of streets into
adjacent areas.
   (E)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets and reasonable
gradients.
   (F)   Alleys. Alleys shall not be permitted to areas of detached single or
two-family residences.
   (G)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
arterial street, the township may require:
      (1)   Marginal access streets approximately parallel to each side of the
right-of-way, not less than 35 feet in width; and
      (2)   Such other treatment as it deems necessary for the adequate
protection of residential properties and to afford separation of through and
local traffic.
   (H)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sacs shall not be more than 600 feet in
length. Special consideration shall be given to longer cul-de-sacs under
certain topographic conditions or other unusual situations. Cul-de-sacs shall
terminate with an adequate turn-around with a minimum radius of 60 feet for
right-of-way.
   (I)   Half streets. Half streets shall generally be prohibited except where
unusual circumstances make it essential to the reasonable development of a
tract in conformance with these regulations and where satisfactory assurance
for dedication of the remaining part of the street is provided. Whenever a
tract to be subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other
part of the street shall be dedicated within the tract.
   (J)   Private streets. Private streets and roads shall be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.19)
§ 158.058  SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Street rights-of-way roadway widths. Street and road rights-of-way and
roadway widths shall conform to the adopted major street plan and the rules of
the County Road Commission and the State Department of Highways.
Street Types R.O.W. Widths
Street Types            R.O.W. Widths
Alley                   24 feet
Boulevards              86 feet
Cul-de-sac streets      60 feet
                        Terminated with a 120 foot diameter turn-around
Loop streets            110 feet
                        Terminated with a 120 foot diameter turn-around
Major thoroughfares     120 feet
Marginal access streets 35 feet
Minor streets           60 feet
Secondary thoroughfares 86 feet
 
   (B)   Grades, curves and sight distance. Standards for maximum and minimum
grades, vertical and horizontal street curves and sight distances shall comply
with the standards of the County Road Commission.
   (C)   Street alignment.
      (1)   Horizontal alignment. When street lines deflect from each other by
more than ten degrees in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by a
curve with a minimum radius of 500 feet for arterial streets, 300 feet for
collector streets and 150 feet for local or minor streets. Between reverse
curves on minor streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of 100 feet
and on collector and arterial streets 200 feet.
      (2)   Vertical alignment. Minimum sight distances shall be 200 feet for
minor streets and 300 feet for collector streets.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.20)
§ 158.059  INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Angle of intersection. Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or
closely thereto and in no case at less than 80 degrees.
   (B)   Sign triangles. Minimum clear sight distance at all minor street
intersections shall permit vehicles to be visible to the driver of another
vehicle when each is 125 feet from the center of the intersection.
   (C)   Number of streets. No more than two streets shall cross at any one
intersection.
   (D)   “T” intersections. Except on arterials and certain collectors, “T”
type intersections shall be used where practical.
   (E)   Centerline offsets. Slight jogs at intersections shall be avoided.
Where jogs are unavoidable, street centerlines shall be offset by a distance of
125 feet or more.
   (F)   Vertical alignment of intersection. A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be carried back 50 to 100 feet each way from the intersection. An
allowance of 2% maximum intersection grade in rolling and 4% in hilly terrain
will be permitted.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.21)
§ 158.060  PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Crosswalks. Right-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks, not less than 12
feet wide in the middle of long blocks shall be required where necessary to
obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks or shopping areas.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   In subdivisions located in R-1, R-2 and R-1-S Zoning Districts,
sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all streets, including side
streets.
      (2)   In subdivisions located in R-1-E and R-1-H Zoning Districts,
sidewalks are required along the lots in the subdivision abutting upon arterial
and collector streets.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.22)
§ 158.061  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Rear and side lot easements. Easement across lots or centered on rear
or side lot lines shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be
at least 12 feet wide, usually six feet dedicated from each lot or parcel,
except side lot easements three feet wide granted for street lighting dropouts.
These easements should be direct and continuous from block to block.
   (B)   Street lighting easements. Underground lines for the street lighting
system within a subdivision shall be installed in easements which shall be
provided in the plat and approved by the utility.
   (C)   Drainageway easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a
watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm
water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines
of the watercourse and the further width for construction on both as will be
adequate for the purpose and as shall be approved by the County Drain
Commission and/or Township Engineer. (The drainage easement or land within a
public easement for major power transmission lines shall not be considered a
part of the minimum required lot area but shall be considered in computing
density under the unit development plan.) Parallel streets or parkways may be
required in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.23)
§ 158.062  MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall conform to and shall be placed as required by the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended. The township shall, in addition, require a surveyor’s
certificate guaranteeing the rechecking and replacement of monuments and
bringing them to grade after sidewalks are in place.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.24)
§ 158.063  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential blocks. Residential blocks shall not be less than 240 feet
wide, they shall not be less than 660 feet long nor more than 1,400 feet long.
Where lots are one-half acre or more in size, blocks up to 1,800 feet long may
be approved.
   (B)   Commercial blocks. Business and commercial blocks shall not be less
than 300 feet wide or less than 400 feet long.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.25)
§ 158.064  LOTS.
   (A)   Conform to zoning. The lot width, depth and area shall not be less
than the particular district requirements of the zoning ordinance, except where
outlots are provided for some permitted purpose.
   (B)   Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight streets and radial to curved streets.
   (C)   Width related to length. Narrow deep lots shall be avoided. The depth
of a lot generally shall not exceed one and one-half times the width as
measured at the building line.
   (D)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least 15 feet wider than
the minimum width permitted by the zoning ordinance to permit appropriate
building setback from both streets or orientation to both streets. Lots
abutting a pedestrian mid-block crosswalk shall be treated as corner lots.
   (E)   Uninhabitable areas. Lands subject to flooding or otherwise deemed by
the Planning Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential purpose or for uses that may in the judgment of the Planning
Commission increase the danger to health, life or property or increase the
flood hazard. The land within a subdivision shall be set aside for other uses,
such as parks or other open space.
   (F)   Back-up-lots. Lots shall back into such features as freeways, arterial
streets, shopping centers or industrial properties, except where there is a
marginal access street provided. The lots shall contain a landscaped easement
along the rear at least 20 feet wide in addition to the utility easement to
restrict access to the arterial street, to minimize noise and to protect
outdoor living areas. Lots extending through a block and having frontage on two
local streets shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Lot frontage. All lots shall front upon a publicly dedicated street.
Variances may be permitted for approved planned community unit developments.
   (H)   Lot division. The division of a lot in a recorded plat is prohibited,
unless the division complies with the requirements of §§
158.100 through
158.102.
   (I)   Division of unplatted parcels.
      (1)   The division of an unplatted parcel of land into two, three or four
lots shall require recommendation by the Commission and the approval of the
Board prior to taking such action. All applications shall be made in writing
and shall be accompanied by a drawing of the proposed division.
      (2)   No building or occupancy permit shall be issued in such cases until
the Board has approved the division of the land.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.26)
§ 158.065  PLANTING STRIPS.
   (A)   Planting strips may be required to be placed next to incompatible
features such as highways, railroads, commercial or industrial uses or
industrial parks to screen the view from residential properties. The screens
shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide, shall comply with the zoning ordinance
requirements for plating distances and type of trees and shrubs and shall not
be a part of the normal roadway right-of-way or utility easement.
   (B)   Where marginal access streets are provided, an eight foot greenbelt,
meeting the requirements of the zoning ordinance, shall be required in the area
between the access street and the arterial street and shall be approved by the
Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.27)
§ 158.066  RESERVE STRIPS.
   (A)   Reserve strips-private. Privately-held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Reserve strips-public. A one-foot reserve strip may be placed at the
end of the “stub” of “dead-end” streets which terminate at subdivision
boundaries and between half-streets. These reserves shall be deeded in fee
simple to the township for future street purposes.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.28)
§ 158.067  PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Public uses. Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public
use shown on the comprehensive development plan is located in whole or in part
within a subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose may be dedicated to the
public or reserved for public purchase.
   (B)   Natural features. Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved, insofar as possible, in the design of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.29)
§ 158.068  LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Modification. This chapter may be modified in accordance with §
158.150 in the case of a subdivision large enough to constitute a complete
community or neighborhood, consistent with the comprehensive development
program which provides and dedicates adequate public open space and
improvements of the circulation, recreation, education, light, air and service
needs of the tract when fully developed and populated.
   (B)   Neighborhood characteristics. A community or neighborhood under this
provision shall generally be consistent with the comprehensive plan and contain
or be bounded by major streets or natural physical barriers as necessary and
shall contain reserved areas of sufficient size to serve its population for
schools, playgrounds, parks and other public facilities. The reserves may be
dedicated.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.30)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 158.080  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the proprietor as
conditions for final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the proprietor and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning design, construction and
financing of public facilities, and to further establish procedures for
assuring compliance with these requirements.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.31)
§ 158.081  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer a complete set of
construction plans (except telephone, electric and television utility plans and
specifications and improvements), including profiles, cross-sections,
specifications and other supporting data for the hereinafter required public
streets, utilities and other facilities. The construction plans shall be based
on preliminary plans which have been approved with the final preliminary plat
and shall be prepared in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans
are subject to approval by the responsible public agencies shown. All
construction plans shall be prepared in accordance with their standards or
specifications.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.32)
§ 158.082  PROCEDURE.
   When construction has been completed at the time of filing the final plat,
one complete copy of as-built engineering plans of each required public
improvement shall be filed with the Clerk coincident with the filing of the
final plat. Other requirements and procedures in the submittal of final plat
shall be as provided in §
158.044.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.33)
§ 158.083  REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every proprietor shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Subdivision
Control Act, being Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
and the rules of the State Department of Treasury.
   (B)   Streets and alleys. All streets and alleys shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the County Road
Commission.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters shall be required on all
neighborhood access streets and minor streets and shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the County Road
Commission.
   (D)   Installation of utilities. Utilities (except electric, telephone and
gas) shall be located in accordance with the rules adopted by the Board.
Sanitary sewer house connections shall be brought to the property line.
   (E)   Driveways. All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
County Road Commission or the Department of State Highways.
   (F)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   An adequate storm drainage system, including necessary storm
sewers, drain inlets, manholes, culverts, bridges and other appurtenances,
shall be required in all subdivisions. The requirements for each particular
subdivision shall be established by the Township Engineer or County Drain
Commissioner.
      (2)   Construction shall follow the specifications and procedures
established by the County Drain Commission. All proposed storm drainage
construction plans for proposed plats shall be approved by the Township
Engineer.
      (3)   Road drainage shall meet the requirements of the County Road
Commission.
   (G)   Water supply system.
      (1)   When a proposed subdivision is to be served by a public water
supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system appurtenances
shall be provided by the proprietor.
      (2)   If there is no existing or accessible public water supply system,
the subdivider may be required to install a water supply system for the common
use of the lots within the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of
Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq. The system provided
shall be turned over to the township for operation and maintenance.
      (3)   Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the
requirements of the County Health Department.
   (H)   Sanitary sewer system.
      (1)   When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a public sanitary
sewerage system, sanitary sewers and other required appurtenances thereto shall
be provided by the proprietor. Sewer systems shall comply with the requirements
of Public Act 451 of 1994.
      (2)   If there is no existing or accessible public sewer system, a sewer
system for the common use of the lot owners may be required to be provided by
the proprietor if feasible in the judgment of the Planning Commission with the
advice of the Township Engineer and County Health Department and shall comply
with the requirements of Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended. The system
provided shall be turned over to the township for operation and maintenance.
      (3)   Where it is determined, in the judgment of the Commission with the
advice of the Township Engineer and the County Health Department, that a
subdivision cannot be economically connected with an existing public sewer
system or that a public sewer system cannot be provided for the subdivision
itself, then approved individual septic tanks shall comply with the
requirements of the County Health Department.
      (4)   However, where studies by the Commission or the Township Engineer
indicate that construction or extension of sanitary trunk sewers to serve the
property being subdivided appears probable within a reasonably short time (up
to three years), sanitary sewer mains and house connections shall be installed
and tapped.
   (I)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be installed in the
appropriate locations at each street intersection in accordance with the
requirements of the County Road Commission.
   (J)   Sidewalk and crosswalk.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street.
      (2)   Sidewalks and crosswalks shall be constructed in accordance with
the township engineering requirements.
   (K)   Street trees. Street trees of a variety and size in accordance with
the standards adopted by the County Road Commission shall be planted between
the street curb and sidewalk. The location of street trees shall be approved by
the County Road Commission.
   (L)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all distribution lines for telephone, electric, television and
other similar services distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground
entirely throughout the residential subdivided area, except for major
thoroughfare right-of-way and except for main supply lines, perimeter feed
lines and necessary surface facilities. The conduits or cables shall be placed
within private easements provided to such service companies by the proprietor
or within dedicated public ways, provided only that overhead lines may also be
permitted upon written recommendation of the Township Engineer and Planning
Commission and the approval where it is determined that overhead lines will not
constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general welfare, design and
character of the subdivision. All facilities placed in dedicated public ways
shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground utilities. All
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of construction
approved by the State Public Service Commission. All drainage and underground
utility installations which traverse privately owned property shall be
protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (M)   Yard grading and drainage. All subdivisions shall be graded in such a
manner as will avoid, as far as possible, the ponding of storm water in the
rear yards of a subdivision. The plans for grading and drainage shall meet the
requirements of the township regulations and shall be approved by the Township
Engineer.
   (N)   Greenbelts. A 20-foot greenbelt conforming to the requirements of the
zoning ordinance shall be required.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.34)
§ 158.084  OPTIONAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Recreational. Where a school site, neighborhood park, recreation area
or public access to water frontage as previously delineated or specified by
official action of the Planning Commission, is located in whole or part in the
proposed subdivision, the township may request the reservation of the open
space for school, park and recreation or public access purposes.
   (B)   Requirements for street lighting. Street lighting service by
underground conductors may be provided throughout the residential subdivision
in conformity with engineering standards and construction practices prescribed
by the utility furnishing such service and the State Public Service Commission.
   (C)   Street lighting. Street lights may be required to be installed at
intersections only throughout the subdivision. In these cases, a subdivider
shall conform to the requirements of the township and the public utility
providing the lighting.
   (D)   Parks and open space. Parks and open spaces may be dedicated to the
township subject to the approval of the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.35)
§ 158.085  GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED BY THE TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   Financial guarantee arrangements; exceptions. In lieu of the actual
installation of required public improvements, the Board, on recommendation of
the Commission, may permit the proprietor to provide a financial guarantee of
performance in one or a combination of the following arrangements for those
requirements which are over and beyond the requirements of the County Road
Commission, County Drain Commissioner or any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable public improvement.
The Commission may recommend and the Board may waive financial guarantees of
performance under this chapter for sidewalks, street lights or street trees. In
case these improvements are specified, completion shall be required prior to
the issuance of occupancy permits.
   (B)   Performance or surety bond.
      (1)   Accrual. The bond shall accrue to the township, covering
construction, operation and maintenance of the specific public improvement.
      (2)   Amount. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total estimated
cost for completing construction of the specific public improvement, including
contingencies as estimated by the Board.
      (3)   Term length. The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the Board for the specific public improvement.
      (4)   Bonding or surety company. The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the Board.
      (5)   Escrow agreement. The escrow agreement shall be drawn and furnished
by the Board.
   (C)   Cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank
letter of credit.
      (1)   Treasurer, escrow agent or trust company.
         (a)   A cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond or an
irrevocable bank letter of credit, such surety acceptable by the Board, shall
accrue to the township.
         (b)   These deposits shall be made with the Township Treasurer or
deposited with a responsible escrow agent or trust company, subject to the
approval of the Board.
      (2)   Dollar value. The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal
to the total estimated cost of construction of the specific public improvement,
including contingencies as estimated by the Board.
      (3)   Escrow time. The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check,
negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a period to
be specified by the Board.
      (4)   Progressive payment. In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the Board and the subdivider may provide for
progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit to the extent of
the cost of the completed portion of the public improvement, in accordance with
a previously entered into agreement.
   (D)   Transfer of subdivision ownership. When the proprietorship of a
subdivision changes through the sale of property before all improvements have
been completed and accepted by the County Road Commission and the township, the
original proprietor shall be held liable for completion of the improvements and
any damage that may be incurred by contractors, unless the original proprietor
in his or her contract of sale shall specifically transfer the obligation for
completion of improvements, cleanup, and damages incurred to the new proprietor
of the subdivision. The original proprietor shall notify the Township Board in
writing within ten days of the transfer that the original bonds have been
transferred to the new proprietor.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.36)
§ 158.086  CONDITION OF TOWNSHIP APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   With respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following:
   (A)   Improvements completed. The construction of improvements required by
this chapter shall have been completed by the proprietor and approved by the
Board; or
   (B)   Acceptable surety. Surety acceptable to the Board shall have been
filed in the form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond,
irrevocable bank letter of credit or surety bond.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.37)
§ 158.087  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   A special agreement shall be entered into between the proprietor and the
Board when street trees and street lights have been required by the Board.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.38)
§ 158.088  INSPECTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   Before approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for
public improvements, an agreement between the proprietor and the Board shall be
made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity
to the submitted plans.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.39)
DIVISION OF LAND IN RECORDED PLATS
§ 158.100  BASIS FOR CONTROL.
   Subject to the provisions of § 263 of the Land Division Act, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. § 560.263, the following provisions shall control the
partitioning or dividing of lots, outlots or other parcels of land in a
recorded plat.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.41)
§ 158.101  PARTITIONING PERMITTED.
   Land may be unconnected from one lot, outlot or parcel and added to another
lot, outlot or parcel upon application to and approval of the Township
Supervisor after review by the Planning Director. The fact of the division
shall be noted upon the township assessment roll and thereafter the enlarged
lot, outlot or parcel shall be considered to be a single lot, outlot or parcel
for the assessment and all other purposes. No division shall be permitted
unless the remainder of the lot, outlot or parcel from which the part was taken
meets the minimum requirements of the township zoning ordinance, including
requirements as to width, area and open space.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.42)
§ 158.102  PARTITIONING INTO TWO OR MORE LOTS.
   (A)   The lot, outlot or parcel may be divided into two or more lots but not
more than four separate lots out lots or parcels upon application to and
approval by the Township Supervisor after review by the Planning Director. A
survey showing the proposed division prepared by a registered civil engineer or
land surveyor and including a proper legal description of each separate lot,
outlot or parcel proposed shall be forwarded to the Planning Director for
review. The Township Supervisor may thereafter approve the partitioning and
shall notify the Township Assessor of the fact of a division, which shall be
noted upon the Township Assessment roll and thereafter the divided portions of
the lot, outlot or parcel shall be considered to be separate lots, outlots or
parcels for the assessments and all other purposes.
   (B)   No division shall be permitted unless each of the parts into which
lot, outlot or parcel is to be divided meets the minimum requirements of the
township zoning ordinance including requirements as to width, area and open
spaces. In these cases where water, sewers or other services have been
installed within the plat by special assessment and the lot proposed to be
divided has been assessed therefor, no division shall be permitted unless the
applicant agrees in writing to pay into the special assessment district an
additional amount to be determined by the Board representing the increased
share of the cost of the special assessment district which shall be borne by
the divided lot, outlot or parcel due to increased benefits received by the
lot, outlot or parcel when divided into two, three or four lots, outlots or
parcels.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.43)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 158.115  SUBMISSION TO AND APPROVAL BY THE BOARD REQUIRED.
   No plat shall be transmitted to any county or state-approving authority for
official action as required by the state platting procedure until the plat
shall have, in the first instance, been approved by the Board in accordance
with the regulations of this subchapter and § 148 of the Land Division Act,
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.44)
§ 158.116  PLAT APPROVAL DEEMED AMENDMENT.
   Every plat approved by the Commission shall, by virtue of the approval, be
deemed to be an amendment of, an addition to or a detail of the comprehensive
plan and a part thereof.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.45)
§ 158.117  METES AND BOUNDS PLATTING.
   The description of any lot or parcel in a plat of a subdivision, filed
hereinafter, by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
document used in the process of selling or transfer is a violation of these
regulations.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.46)  Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.118  SALES CONTRARY TO REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall sell or convey any lot in any plat by reference
thereto until the plat has been duly recorded in the office of the County
Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Any sale of lands subdivided in violation of the provisions of the
Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended, shall be voidable at the option of the purchaser thereof
and shall subject the seller thereof to the forfeiture of any and all
consideration received or pledged therefor together with any damages sustained
by the purchaser thereof, recoverable in an action of law.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.47)
§ 158.119  PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   Public sewer or water service shall not be provided for any dwelling or
other structure located on a plat subdivided or sold in violation of these
regulations, excepting that the service may be installed in any structure when
deemed necessary by the Health Department for the protection of the public
health.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.48)
§ 158.120  FEES.
   The proprietor shall pay a fee to the Township Treasurer at the time a
tentative preliminary plat is filed with the Township Clerk. The fee shall be
established by resolution of the Township Board and shall cover the cost for
the examination and inspection of the plat and the land proposed to be
subdivided, engineering and the other applicable development charges. This fee
does not include the fee for filing and recording fee as required in §
158.044.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.49)
VARIANCES
§ 158.135  PERMITTED VARIANCES.
   (A)   When the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary hardship may
result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may vary the
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured provided, that the variation will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of the comprehensive plan or these regulations.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this ordinance would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which the property
is situated; and
      (4)   The variance will not violate the provisions of the State
Subdivision Control Act, being Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.50)
§ 158.136  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT VARIANCE.
   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified by the
Planning Commission in the case of a plan and program for a complete community
or a neighborhood unit which, in the judgment of the Planning Commission,
provides adequate public spaces and improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated and which also provide covenant or other legal provisions as will
assure conformity to and achievement of the plan.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.51)
§ 158.137  APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   Application for any variance shall be submitted in writing by the proprietor
at the time when the tentative preliminary plat is filed for the consideration
of the Commission, stating fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the
petitioner, and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data
which may aid the Planning Commission in the analysis of the proposed project.
The plans for the development shall include covenants, restrictions or other
legal provisions necessary to guarantee the full achievement of the plan.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.52)
§ 158.138  VARIANCES SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS.
   In granting variances and modifications, the Planning Commission may require
such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.53)
AMENDMENTS
§ 158.150  PROCEDURES.
   The Township Board may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter in the manner prescribed by Public
Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3831 et seq., as amended. A proposed
amendment, supplement or repeal may be originated by the Township Board,
Planning Commission or by petition. All proposals not originating with the
Planning Commission shall be referred to it for a report thereon before any
action is taken on the proposal by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.55)
§ 158.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   In the event the proprietor shall, in any case, fail to complete the
work within the period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee
for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of
the Board to proceed to have the work completed. In order to accomplish this,
the Board shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by
appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a
surety bond or may take the steps as may be necessary to require performance by
the bonding or surety company and as included in a written agreement between
the Board and the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.40)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of
this chapter shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that the violation continues after
due notice has been served in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense. The land owners, tenant, proprietor,
builder, public official or any other person who commits, participates in,
assists in or maintains the violation may each be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Board or any other public official or private citizen from
taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation
of this chapter or of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293.
(Prior Code, § XII-6.54)
CHAPTER 159:  ZONING
Section
   
159.01   Adoption by reference
§ 159.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The township’s zoning ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 99, passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.           Date Passed     Description
                                   Granting Consumers Energy Company the right,
                                   power and authority to lay, maintain and
                                   operate gas mains, pipes and services on,
1016, Amendment 13 Eff. 12-21-2015 along, across and under the highways,
                                   streets, alleys, bridges, waterways and
                                   other public places and to do a local gas
                                   business in the township for a period of 30
                                   years.
 
Prior Code, §§ VI-1.01 through VI-1.11
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites               Code Section
15.181 et seq.               33.062
                             31.027,
15.231 et seq.               54.023,
                             157.06
                             Charter,
15.231 to 15.246             Sec. 7,
                             31.054
                             31.027,
15.261 et seq.               31.054,
                             35.06
                             Charter,
                             Sec. 6a, Charter,
15.261 through 15.275        Sec. 7,
                             157.06,
                             157.07
15.321 et seq.               33.063
15.321 to 15.330             33.064
15.341 et seq.               33.070
15.342                       33.063
15.361 et seq.               33.070
15.401 et seq.               33.065
15.406                       33.065
                             Ch. 50,
24.201 et seq.               50.12,
                             Ch. 70,
                             70.01
28.451                       94.02
28.467a                      94.02
28.601 et seq.               32.20
28.609                       32.24
30.401 et seq.               Ch. 35
35.441 et seq.               113.23
41.1 to 41.103               Charter,
                             Sec. 2
41.1a to 41.110c             Charter,
                             Sec. 1
                             32.28,
41.110b                      Ch. 33,
                             33.001,
                             33.016
41.181 et seq.               31.065
                             Ch. 97,
41.271 et seq.               97.01,
                             97.04,
                             97.05
                             Ch. 32,
41.82                        32.20,
                             32.21
41.721 to 41.738             Charter,
                             Sec. 31
41.806a                      Ch. 35,
                             35.26
                             Ch. 34,
                             Ch. 52,
                             Ch. 70,
                             Ch. 90,
                             Ch. 91,
                             Ch. 92,
                             Ch. 94,
                             Ch. 97,
                             97.01,
42.1 et seq.                 Ch. 98,
                             Ch. 110,
                             Ch. 113,
                             Ch. 114,
                             Ch. 116,
                             Ch. 130,
                             Ch. 131,
                             Ch. 151,
                             Ch. 152,
                             Ch. 153
42.12                        Ch. 31,
                             31.065
42.15                        Ch. 31,
                             31.065
42.23                        130.01
46.171 through 46.185        Ch. 53,
                             53.047
117.6                        Charter,
                             Sec. 1
117.9                        Charter,
                             Sec. 34
123.161 et seq.              53.037
123.161 through 123.167      Ch. 53
123.165                      53.037
123.731 through 123.786      Ch. 53,
                             53.047
                             31.020,
125.131 et seq.              31.021,
                             31.029
125.321 et seq.              Ch. 31
125.401 et seq.              Ch. 151,
                             151.99
125.1351                     90.02
125.1501 et seq.             51.03
125.1501 to 125.1531         157.09,
                             157.11
                             Ch. 51,
125.1501 through 125.1531    Ch. 155,
                             156.01,
                             156.02
125.1508b                    155.02
125.1508b(2)                 155.04
125.1508b(6)                 156.01—
                             155.03
125.1508b(11)                155.05
125.1523(3)                  155.06
125.3101 et seq.             31.020,
                             31.030
                             Ch. 31,
                             31.020,
125.3801 et seq.             31.021,
                             31.029,
                             Ch. 158,
                             158.038
125.3811 et seq.             158.020
125.3831 et seq.             158.150
                             Ch. 150,
                             150.02,
                             150.03,
125.4101 et seq.             150.05 –
                             150.07,
                             150.20,
                             150.21
141.1101 to 141.1118         Charter,
                             Sec. 1a
141.2101 to 141.2821         Charter,
                             Sec. 14a
                             Charter,
                             Sec. 2a, Charter,
168.1 to 168.992             Sec. 4, Charter,
                             Sec. 5, Charter,
                             Sec. 34
168.488                      Charter,
                             Sec. 2a
168.639                      Charter,
                             Sec. 34
169.201 et seq.              33.065
211.1 to 211.157             Charter,
                             Sec. 27
213.321 to 213.332           150.20
247.61 et seq.               Ch. 95
247.183                      115.20
                             70.02,
257.1 et seq.                Ch. 96,
                             113.19
257.1 through 257.82         70.02
                             Charter,
                             Sec. 21, Charter,
257.1 to 257.923             Sec. 21a,
                             32.26,
                             96.22
                             Charter,
257.1 through 257.923        Sec. 21,
                             70.99,
                             Ch. 154
257.42                       Ch. 31
257.223                      70.02
257.225                      70.02
257.226b                     70.02
257.228                      70.02
257.243                      70.02
257.244                      70.02
257.252a through 257.252g    70.02
257.255                      70.02
257.256                      70.02
257.310e                     70.02
257.311                      70.02
257.312                      70.02
257.312a                     70.02
257.312e                     70.02
257.315                      70.02
257.319d                     70.02
257.324                      70.02
257.325                      70.02
257.326                      70.02
257.328                      70.02
257.601 through 257.601b     70.02
257.602 through 257.606      70.02
257.610                      70.02
257.611 through 257.616a     70.02
257.617a through 257.622     70.02
257.624a and 257.624b        70.02
257.625                      70.02
257.625(1)(c)                70.99
257.625a                     70.02
257.625c                     70.02
257.625m                     70.02
257.626 through 257.626b     70.02
257.627 through 257.675a     70.02
257.628                      70.02
257.629b                     70.02
257.631 and 257.632          70.02
257.634 through 257.645      70.02
257.647 through 257.655      70.02
257.656                      70.02
257.656 through 257.662      70.02
257.667 through 257.675d     70.02
257.675a                     70.02
257.676 through 257.682b     70.02
257.683 through 257.710e     70.02
257.716 through 257.724      70.02
257.726                      70.02
257.726a                     70.02
257.726b                     70.02
257.741                      31.007
257.742                      31.001
257.742(6)                   70.07
257.742(7)                   70.07
257.742(8)                   70.07
257.904 through 257.904a     70.02
257.904e                     70.02
257.905                      70.02
257.941 to 257.943           Charter,
                             Sec. 21
257.951 to 257.954           Charter,
                             Sec. 21
259.1 to 259.208             Charter,
                             Sec. 21
                             Ch. 70,
270.211 through 270.227      70.05,
                             70.99
287.261 et seq.              Ch. 90,
                             Ch. 111
                             50.12,
                             50.13,
                             54.001,
324.101 et seq.              Ch. 95,
                             95.03,
                             Ch. 96,
                             Ch. 131
324.1601 et seq.             50.05
                             Ch. 50,
                             50.06,
                             50.12,
324.11501 et seq.            54.002,
                             Ch. 70,
                             Ch. 153,
                             Ch. 158,
                             158.083
324.80101 to 324.80199       Charter,
                             Sec. 21
324.80124 et seq.            96.22
324.81101 to 324.81150       Charter,
                             Sec. 21
324.81101 through 324.81147  70.03
324.82101 to 324.82160       Charter,
                             Sec. 21
324.821101 through 324.82158 70.03
325.1001 et seq.             51.03
325.1001 through 325.1023    Ch. 51
333.1101 et seq.             Ch. 51
333.1201 et seq.             51.03
333.27951 et seq.            117.02,
                             117.03
333.7101 et seq.             131.07
333.7101 to 333.7545         Charter,
                             Sec. 21
333.7104                     131.09
333.7109(3)(a)               131.07
333.7109(3)(b)               131.07
333.7212                     131.07
333.7214                     131.07
333.7216                     131.07
333.7218                     131.07
333.7220                     131.07
333.7336                     131.07
333.7404                     130.01
333.7451                     131.07
333.17766a                   Charter,
                             Sec. 21
339.5101 et seq.             Ch. 51,
                             51.03
393.351                      90.02
338.3511 et seq.             Ch. 51,
                             51.03
399.203(4)                   157.07
399.205(3)                   157.11
399.205(6)                   157.03
                             Ch. 112,
436.1101 et seq.             112.04,
                             112.99
436.1101 to 436.2303         Charter,
                             Sec. 21
436.1105 et seq.             131.09
445.451 et seq.              111.04
445.501 et seq.              Ch. 114,
                             114.04
460.721 et seq.              115.28
462.351 to 462.365           Charter,
                             Sec. 21
480.11 through 480.22        Ch. 70,
                             70.04
                             Ch. 115,
484.2101 et seq.             115.20,
                             115.22,
                             115.21
484.3101 et seq.             115.20
484.3106(4)                  115.24
                             Ch. 115,
484.3301 et seq.             115.04,
                             115.05,
                             115.06
                             31.031,
                             158.020,
560.101 et seq.              158.044,
                             158.083,
                             158.135
560.111 through 560.119      158.042
                             Ch. 154,
                             Ch. 158,
                             158.003,
                             158.005,
560.101 through 560.293      158.042—
                             158.044,
                             158.062,
                             158.115,
                             158.118,
                             158.999
560.263                      158.100
                             Ch. 70,
600.101 et seq.              70.99,
                             Ch. 95
600.8301 to 600.8395         32.21,
                             32.24
600.8379                     Charter,
                             Sec. 21
600.8395                     Ch. 31,
                             31.001
600.8701 et seq.             95.99,
                             116.99
722.751 et seq.              132.01
722.641 et seq.              132.02
750.1 to 750.568             Charter,
                             Sec. 21
750.15                       130.01
750.27                       130.01
750.28                       130.01
750.33(a)                    130.01
750.38                       130.01
750.40                       130.01
750.49                       130.01
750.50                       130.01
750.50a                      130.01
750.51                       130.01
750.57                       130.01
750.66                       130.01
750.77                       130.01
750.81                       130.01
750.95a                      130.01
750.103                      130.01
750.108                      130.01
750.109a                     130.01
750.115                      130.01
750.120a                     130.01
750.120b                     130.01
750.131                      130.01
750.135a                     130.01
750.136b(l) and (8-10)       130.01
750.137                      130.01
750.141 through 750.145      130.01
750.145a through 750.145f    130.01
750.157s                     130.01
750.157w                     130.01
750.168(1)                   130.01
750.169                      130.01
750.170                      130.01
750.174(1-2)                 130.01
750.174a(2)                  130.01
750.181(1-2)                 130.01
750.184                      130.01
750.197a                     130.01
750.199                      130.01
750.204b                     130.01
750.204c                     130.01
750.214                      130.01
750.215                      130.01
750.216                      130.01
750.216a                     130.01
750.216b                     130.01
750.217a                     130.01
750.217g                     130.01
750.217h                     130.01
750.218(2)                   130.01
750.219a(2)(a)               130.01
750.221                      130.01
750.223(1)                   130.01
750.227d                     130.01
750.229                      130.01
750.231c                     130.01
750.232a(1)                  130.01
750.233                      130.01
750.234                      130.01
750.234d                     130.01
750.234e                     130.01
750.234f                     130.01
750.235                      130.01
750.235a                     130.01
750.237(1-2)                 130.01
750.240                      130.01
750.241                      130.01
750.282                      130.01
750.291                      130.01
750.292                      130.01
750.335                      130.01
750.352                      130.01
750.355                      130.01
750.356                      130.01
750.356d                     130.01
750.364                      130.01
750.368(1-3)                 130.01
750.369                      130.01
750.370                      130.01
750.377a(1)(d)               130.01
750.380(5)                   130.01
750.381                      130.01
750.382                      130.01
750.383                      130.01
750.384                      130.01
750.385                      130.01
750.387                      130.01
750.388                      130.01
750.390                      130.01
750.391                      130.01
750.394 through 750.396      130.01
750.398                      130.01
750.400                      130.01
750.411a                     130.01
750.411d                     130.01
750.411g                     130.01
750.411h                     130.01
750.414a                     130.01
750.415                      130.01
750.416                      130.01
750.419                      130.01
750.421b                     130.01
750.421c                     130.01
750.448                      130.01
750.449a through 750.451     130.01
750.462                      130.01
750.463                      130.01
750.464a                     130.01
750.465                      130.01
750.467                      130.01
750.468                      130.01
750.469                      130.01
750.471                      130.01
750.473                      130.01
750.477a                     130.01
750.479c                     130.01
750.481                      130.01
750.483                      130.01
750.485                      130.01
750.487                      130.01
750.489                      130.01
750.490a                     130.01
750.491                      33.058
750.492a(1)(d)               130.01
750.493                      130.01
750.493a                     130.01
750.493b                     130.01
750.493c                     130.01
750.493d                     130.01
750.493e                     130.01
750.495                      130.01
750.495a(1)                  130.01
750.497                      130.01
750.498                      130.01
750.498b(1)                  130.01
750.502c                     130.01
750.507                      130.01
750.507b                     130.01
750.510                      130.01
750.518                      130.01
750.533                      130.01
750.534                      130.01
750.535(1) and (5)           130.01
750.536a                     130.01
750.539b                     130.01
750.540a                     130.01
750.540b                     130.01
750.540e                     130.01
750.540f(1)                  130.01
750.540g(1)(a)               130.01
750.552                      130.01
750.552a                     130.01
750.556                      130.01
750.562                      130.01
750.563                      130.01
750.564                      130.01
750.565                      130.01
750.566                      130.01
752.61                       90.02
752.791                      130.01
752.794                      130.01
752.797(1)(a)                130.01
752.861                      130.01
752.862                      130.01
752.863a                     130.01
764.1 et seq.                Ch. 30
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section      2021 Code Section
1.010                   10.01
1.030                   10.03
1.040                   10.04
1.050                   10.05
1.060                   10.06
1.070                   10.07
1.080                   10.08
1.090                   10.09
1.100                   10.10
1.110                   10.11
1.130                   10.13
1.140                   10.14
II-3.00                 32.20
II-3.01                 32.21
II-3.02                 32.22
II-3.03                 32.23
II-3.04                 32.24
II-3.05                 32.25
II-3.06                 32.26
II-3.07                 32.27
II-3.08                 32.28
II-4.00                 33.001
II-4.01                 33.002
II-4.02                 33.003
II-5.00                 35.01
II-5.01                 35.02
II-5.02                 35.03
II-5.03                 35.04
II-5.04                 35.05
II-5.05                 35.06
II-5.06                 35.07
II-5.07                 35.08
II-5.08                 35.09
II-5.09                 35.10
II-5.10                 35.11
II-5.11                 35.12
II-5.12                 35.13
II-6.00                 35.25
II-6.01                 35.26
II-6.02                 35.27
II-6.03                 35.28
II-6.04                 35.29
II-7.00                 33.015
II-7.01                 33.016
II-7.02                 33.017
II-7.03                 33.018
II-7.04                 33.019
II-7.05                 33.020
II-7.06                 33.021
II-7.07                 33.022
II-7.08                 33.023
II-7.09                 33.024
II-8.00                 33.035
II-8.01                 33.036
II-8.02                 33.037
II-8.03                 33.038
II-8.04                 33.039
II-8.05                 33.040
II-8.06                 33.041
II-9.00                 30.01
II-9.01                 30.02
II-9.02                 30.03
II-10.00                31.001
II-10.01                31.002
II-10.02                31.003
II-10.03                31.004
II-10.04                31.005
II-10.05                31.006
II-10.06                31.007
II-10.07                31.008
II-11.00                31.020
II-11.01                31.021
II-11.02                31.022
II-11.03                31.023
II-11.04                31.024
II-11.05                31.025
II-11.06                31.026
II-11.07                31.027
II-11.08                31.028
II-11.09                31.029
II-11.10                31.030
II-11.11                31.031
II-11.12                31.999
II-11.13                31.032
II-11.14                31.033
II-11.15                31.034
II-11.16                31.035
II-11.17                31.036
II-12.00                31.065
II-12.01                31.066
II-12.02                31.067
II-12.03                31.068
II-12.04                31.069
II-12.05                31.070
II-12.06                31.071
II-13.00                32.01
II-13.01                32.02
II-13.02                32.03
II-13.03                32.04
II-13.04                32.05
II-13.05                32.06
II-14.00                34.01
II-14.01                34.02
II-14.02                34.99
II-16.00                93.01
II-16.01                93.02
II-16.02                93.03
II-16.03                93.04
II-16.04                93.99
III-1.00                150.01
III-1.01                150.02
III-1.02                150.03
III-1.03                150.04
III-1.04                150.05
III-1.05                150.06
III-1.06                150.07
III-1.07                150.99
III-2.00                150.20
III-2.01                150.21
IV-1.00                 110.01
IV-1.01                 110.02
IV-1.02                 110.03
IV-1.03                 110.04
IV-1.04                 110.05
IV-1.05                 110.06
IV-1.06                 110.07
IV-1.07                 110.08
IV-1.08                 110.09
IV-1.09                 110.99
IV-2.00                 90.01
IV-2.01                 90.02
IV-2.02                 90.03
IV-2.03                 90.04
IV-2.04                 90.05
IV-2.05                 90.06
IV-2.06                 90.07
IV-2.07                 90.08
IV-2.08                 90.09
IV-2.09                 90.10
IV-2.10                 90.11
IV-2.11                 90.12
IV-2.12                 90.13
IV-2.13                 90.14
IV-2.14                 90.15
IV-2.15                 90.16
IV-2.16                 90.17
IV-2.17                 90.18
IV-2.18                 90.19
IV-2.19                 90.20
IV-2.20                 90.21
IV-2.21                 90.22
IV-2.22                 90.23,
                        90.99
IV-3.00                 111.01
IV-3.01                 111.02
IV-3.02                 111.03
IV-3.03                 111.04
IV-3.04                 111.99
IV-4.00                 112.01
IV-4.01                 112.02
IV-4.02                 112.03
IV-4.03                 112.04
IV-4.04                 112.99
IV-5.00                 113.01
IV-5.01                 113.02
IV-5.02                 113.15
IV-5.03                 113.16
IV-5.04                 113.17
IV-5.05                 113.18
IV-5.06                 113.19
IV-5.07                 113.20
IV-5.08                 113.21
IV-5.09                 113.22
IV-5.10                 113.23
IV-5.11                 113.24
IV-5.12                 113.25
IV-5.13                 113.40
IV-5.14                 113.41
IV-5.15                 113.42
IV-5.16                 113.43
IV-5.17                 113.44
IV-5.18                 113.45
IV-5.19                 113.46
IV-5.20                 113.47
IV-5.21                 113.48
IV-5.22                 113.99
IV-6.00                 114.01
IV-6.01                 114.02
IV-6.02                 114.03
IV-6.03                 114.04
IV-6.04                 114.99
V-1.00                  115.01
V-1.01                  115.02
V-1.02                  115.03
V-1.03                  115.04
V-1.04                  115.05
V-1.05                  115.06
V-2.00                  115.20
V-2.01                  115.21
V-2.02                  115.22
V-2.03                  115.23
V-2.04                  115.24
V-2.05                  115.25
V-2.06                  115.26
V-2.07                  115.27
V-2.08                  115.28
V-2.09                  115.29
V-2.10                  115.30
V-2.11                  115.31
V-2.12                  115.32
V-2.13                  115.33
V-2.14                  115.34
V-2.15                  115.35
V-2.16                  115.99
Chapter V, App. A       Chapter 115, App. A
Chapter V, App. A-1     Chapter 115, App. A-1
VI-1.01 through VI-1.11 TSO I
VII-1.00                91.01
VII-1.01                91.02
VII-1.02                91.03
VII-1.03                91.04
VII-1.04                91.99
VII-2.00                130.01
VII-2.01                132.01
VII-2.02                130.02
VII-2.03                131.01
VII-2.04                131.02
VII-2.05                131.03
VII-2.06                131.04
VII-2.07                131.05
VII-2.08                131.99,
                        132.99
VII-3.00                116.01
VII-3.01                116.02
VII-3.02                116.03
VII-3.03                116.04
VII-3.04                116.05
VII-3.05                116.06
VII-3.06                116.99
VII-4.00                131.06
VII-4.01                131.99
VII-5.00                92.01
VII-5.01                92.02
VII-5.02                92.03
VII-5.03                92.04
VII-5.04                92.05
VII-5.05                92.06
VII-5.06                92.07
VII-5.07                92.08
VII-5.09                92.09
VII-5.10                92.99
VII-6.00                90.35
VII-6.01                90.36
VII-6.02                90.37
VII-6.03                90.99
VII-7.00                93.01
VII-7.01                93.02
VII-7.02                93.03
VII-7.03                93.04
VII-7.04                93.99
VII-8.00                132.02
VII-8.01                132.99
VII-10.00               94.02
VII-10.02               94.03
VII-10.03               94.04
VII-10.04               94.05
VII-10.05               94.06
VII-10.06               94.07
VII-10.07               94.08
VIII-1.00               70.01
VIII-1.01               70.02
VIII-1.02               70.03
VIII-1.03               70.04
VIII-1.04               70.05
VIII-1.05               70.06
VIII-1.06               70.99
VIII-1.07               70.99
VIII-1.08               70.99
VIII-1.09               70.99
IX-1.00                 50.01
IX-1.01                 50.02
IX-1.02                 50.03
IX-1.03                 50.04
IX-1.04                 50.05
IX-1.05                 50.06
IX-1.06                 50.07
IX-1.07                 50.08
IX-1.08                 50.09
IX-1.09                 50.10
IX-1.10                 50.11
IX-1.11                 50.12
IX-1.12                 50.13
IX-1.13                 50.14
IX-1.14                 50.99
X-1.00                  51.01
X-1.01                  51.02
X-1.02                  51.03
X-1.03                  51.04
X-1.04                  51.05
X-1.05                  51.06
X-1.06                  51.07
X-1.07                  51.08
X-1.08                  51.09
X-1.09                  51.10
X-1.10                  51.11
X-1.11                  51.12
X-1.12                  51.99
X-2.00                  52.01
X-2.01                  52.02
X-2.02                  52.03
X-2.03                  52.04
X-2.04                  52.99
X-3.01                  53.001
X-3.02                  53.002
X-3.03                  53.003
X-3.04                  53.015
X-3.050                 53.016
X-3.055                 53.017
X-3.056                 53.018
X-3.060                 53.019
X-3.061                 53.020
X-3.062                 53.021
X-3.063                 53.035
X-3.064                 53.036
X-3.065                 53.037
X-3.066                 53.038
X-3.067                 53.039
X-3.068                 53.040
X-3.069                 53.041
X-3.069-1               53.042
X-3.069-2               53.043
X-3.069-3               53.044
X-3.069-4               53.045
X-3.069-5               53.046
X-3.069-6               53.047
X-3.069-7               53.048
X-3.070                 53.049
X-3.26                  53.061
X-3.39                  54.001
X-3.40                  54.002
X-3.41                  54.003
X-3.42                  54.004
X-3.43                  54.015
X-3.44                  54.016
X-3.45                  54.017
X-3.46                  54.018
X-3.47                  54.019
X-3.48                  54.020
X-3.49                  54.021
X-3.50                  54.022
X-3.51                  54.023
X-3.52                  54.024
X-3.53                  54.025
X-3.54                  54.026
X-3.55                  54.027
X-3.56                  54.028
X-3.57                  54.029
X-3.58                  54.030
X-3.59                  54.031
X-3.60                  54.032
X-3.61                  54.999
X-3.62                  54.033
X-3.65                  54.045
X-3.66                  54.046
X-3.67                  54.047
X-3.68                  54.048
X-3.69                  54.049
X-3.70                  54.050
X-3.71                  54.051
X-3.72                  54.052
X-3.73                  54.053
X-3.74                  54.054
X-3.75                  54.055
X-3.76                  54.070
X-3.77                  54.071
X-3.78                  54.072
X-3.79                  54.073
X-3.80                  54.074
X-3.81                  54.075
X-3.82                  54.076
X-3.83                  54.077
X-3.84                  54.078
X-3.85                  54.079
X-3.86                  54.080
X-3.87                  54.081
X-3.88                  54.082
X-3.89                  54.083
X-3.90                  54.084
X-3.91                  54.085
X-3.92                  54.100
X-3.93                  54.101
X-3.94                  54.102
X-3.95                  54.103
X-3.96                  54.104
X-3.97                  54.105
X-3.98                  54.106
XI-1.00                 95.01
XI-1.01                 95.02
XI-1.03                 95.03
XI-1.04                 95.04
XI-2.00                 96.01
XI-2.01                 96.02
XI-2.02                 96.03
XI-2.03                 96.04
XI-2.04                 96.05
XI-2.05                 96.06
XI-2.06                 96.07
XI-2.07                 96.08
XI-2.08                 96.09
XI-2.09                 96.10
XI-2.10                 96.11
XI-2.11                 96.12
XI-2.12                 96.13
XI-2.13                 96.14
XI-2.14                 96.15
XI-2.15                 96.16
XI-2.16                 96.17
XI-2.17                 96.18
XI-2.18                 96.19
XI-2.19                 96.20
XI-2.20                 96.21
XI-2.21                 96.99
XI-2.22                 96.22
XI-3.00                 96.35
XI-3.01                 96.36
XI-3.02                 96.37
XI-3.03                 96.38
XI-3.04                 96.39
XI-3.05                 96.40
XI-3.06                 96.41
XI-3.07                 96.42
XI-4.00                 95.15
XI-4.01                 95.99
XI-4.02                 95.16
XI-4.03                 95.17
XI-4.04                 95.18
XI-4.05                 95.19
XI-4.06                 95.20
XI-5.00                 97.20
XI-5.01                 97.21
XI-5.02                 97.99
XI-6.00                 97.01
XI-6.01                 97.02
XI-6.02                 97.03
XI-6.03                 97.04
XI-6.04                 97.05
XI-6.05                 97.06
XI-6.06                 97.07
XI-6.07                 97.99
XI-8.00                 151.01
XI-8.01                 151.02
XI-8.02                 151.03
XI-8.03                 151.04
XI-8.04                 151.05
XI-8.05                 151.06
XI-8.06                 151.07
XI-8.07                 151.08
XI-8.08                 151.09
XI-8.09                 151.10
XI-8.10                 151.11
XI-8.11                 151.12
XI-8.12                 151.13
XI-8.13                 151.14
XI-8.14                 151.99
XII-1.00                152.01
XII-1.01                152.02
XII-1.02                152.03
XII-1.03                152.99
XII-1.04                152.04
XII-2.00                94.20
XII-2.01                94.21
XII-2.02                94.22
XII-3.00                153.01
XII-3.01                153.02
XII-3.02                153.03
XII-3.03                153.04
XII-3.04                153.05
XII-3.05                153.06
XII-3.06                153.99
XII-4.00                154.01
XII-4.01                154.02
XII-4.02                154.03
XII-4.03                154.04
XII-4.04                154.05
XII-4.05                154.06
XII-4.06                154.07
XII-4.07                154.08
XII-4.08                154.09
XII-4.09                154.10
XII-4.10                154.99
XII-5.00                155.01
XII-5.01                155.02
XII-5.02                155.03
XII-5.03                155.04
XII-5.04                155.05
XII-5.05                155.06
XII-5.06                155.99
XII-6.00                158.001
XII-6.01                158.002
XII-6.02                158.003
XII-6.03                158.004
XII-6.04                158.005
XII-6.05                158.006
XII-6.06                158.020
XII-6.07                158.035
XII-6.08                158.036
XII-6.09                158.037
XII-6.10                158.038
XII-6.11                158.039
XII-6.12                158.040
XII-6.13                158.041
XII-6.14                158.042
XII-6.15                158.043
XII-6.16                158.044
XII-6.17                158.055
XII-6.18                158.056
XII-6.19                158.057
XII-6.20                158.058
XII-6.21                158.059
XII-6.22                158.060
XII-6.23                158.061
XII-6.24                158.062
XII-6.25                158.063
XII-6.26                158.064
XII-6.27                158.065
XII-6.28                158.066
XII-6.29                158.067
XII-6.30                158.068
XII-6.31                158.080
XII-6.32                158.081
XII-6.33                158.082
XII-6.34                158.083
XII-6.35                158.084
XII-6.36                158.085
XII-6.37                158.086
XII-6.38                158.087
XII-6.39                158.088
XII-6.40                158.999
XII-6.41                158.100
XII-6.42                158.101
XII-6.43                158.102
XII-6.44                158.115
XII-6.45                158.116
XII-6.46                158.117
XII-6.47                158.118
XII-6.48                158.119
XII-6.49                158.120
XII-6.50                158.135
XII-6.51                158.136
XII-6.52                158.137
XII-6.53                158.138
XII-6.54                158.999
XII-6.55                158.150
XII-7.00                156.01
XII-7.01                156.02
XII-7.02                156.03
XII-7.03                156.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Code Section
Ord. No.            Passed/Effective Code Section
99                  - -              159.01,
                                     53.999
-                   9-22-2020        53.060
1016, Amendment 9   eff. 11-30-2014  94.02—
                                     94.08
1016, Amendment 12  eff. 11-30-2014  94.20—
                                     94.22
1016, Amendment 13  eff. 12-21-2015  TSO I
                                     93.01—
1016, Amendment 18  eff. 6-23-2016   93.04,
                                     93.99
1016, Amendment 19  2-28-2017        33.055—
                                     33.070
1016, Amendment 20a 9-12-2017        70.07
                                     31.050—
1016, Amendment 23  - -2019          31.054,
                                     31.999
                                     117.01—
1016, Amendment 21  1-22-2019        117.04,
                                     117.99
                                     130.01,
                                     131.07—
1016, Amendment 22  1-22-2019        131.14,
                                     131.99,
                                     132.03,
                                     132.99
                                     157.01—
1016, Amendment 23  4-23-2019        157.16,
                                     157.99
                                     94.01—
1016, Amendment 24  5-7-2019         94.09,
                                     94.99
1016, Amendment 26  3-9-2021         53.037
                                     98.01—
                                     98.08,
1016, Amendment 25  7-27-2021        98.20—
                                     98.23,
                                     98.35—
                                     98.39
                                    
 
