CITY OF READING, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2015 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-11-14
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
PREAMBLE
CHAPTER I.  CONTINUATION OF EXISTING CORPORATION: BOUNDARIES
   
Section 1.1   Continuation of Existing Corporation
   
Section 1.2   Alteration of Boundaries
CHAPTER II.  GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
   
Section 2.1   General Municipal Powers
   
Section 2.2   Additional Powers of the City
   
Section 2.3   Exercise of Power
   
Section 2.4   Succession to Properties of Present City
   
Section 2.5   Liability and Obligations of Present City
CHAPTER III.  PLAN OF GOVERNMENT
   
Section 3.1   Council-Manager Government
   
Section 3.2   The City Council
   
Section 3.3   Establishing City Boards
   
Section 3.4   Collection of City Charges
   
Section 3.5   Compensation of Councilors and Mayor
   
Section 3.6   Responsibilities and Duties of the Mayor
   
Section 3.7   Mayor Pro-Tempore
   
Section 3.8   City Officers
   
Section 3.9   City Manager: Appointment
   
Section 3.10   Responsibilities and Duties of the City Manager
   
Section 3.11   Acting City Manager
   
Section 3.12   Relationship of Council to Administrative Service
   
Section 3.13   City Clerk - Treasurer: Appointment
   
Section 3.14   City Clerk - Treasurer: Responsibilities and Duties as Clerk
   
Section 3.15   City Clerk - Treasurer: Responsibilities and Duties as Treasurer
   
Section 3.16   City Attorney: Appointment
   
Section 3.17   Responsibilities and Duties of the City Attorney
   
Section 3.18   City Assessor: Appointment
   
Section 3.19   City Assessor: Responsibilities and Duties
   
Section 3.20   Official Performance; Deputies and Subordinates
   
Section 3.21   Other Administrative Officers: Appointment
   
Section 3.22   Responsibilities and Duties of Other Administrative Officers
CHAPTER IV.  ELECTIONS
   
Section 4.1   Qualifications of Electors
   
Section 4.2   Election Procedure
   
Section 4.3   Terms of Office of Elective Officials
   
Section 4.4   At Large Election
   
Section 4.5   Election Date
   
Section 4.6   Special Elections
   
Section 4.7   Notice of Election
   
Section 4.8   Voting Hours
   
Section 4.9   Election Commission
   
Section 4.10   Nominating Petitions
   
Section 4.11   Approval of Petitions
   
Section 4.12   Withdrawal of Nominating Petitions
   
Section 4.13   Form of Ballots
   
Section 4.14   Canvass of Votes
   
Section 4.15   Recount
   
Section 4.16   Recall
CHAPTER V.  GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL OF THE CITY
   
Section 5.1   Qualifications of Mayor and Councilors
   
Section 5.2   Vacancies in Office
   
Section 5.3   Resignation of Elected Officers
   
Section 5.4   Filling Vacancies in Elective Offices
   
Section 5.5   Change in Term of Office or Compensation
   
Section 5.6   Oath of Office and Bonds
   
Section 5.7   Surety Bonds
   
Section 5.8   Personal Financial Interests.
   
Section 5.9   Appointments, Removals, and Promotions
CHAPTER VI.  PROCEDURES OF THE CITY COUNCIL
   
Section 6.1   Council Meetings
   
Section 6.2   Special Meetings
   
Section 6.3   Business at Special Meetings
   
Section 6.4   Meetings to be Public
   
Section 6.5   Quorum
   
Section 6.6   Voting and Publication of Minutes
   
Section 6.7   Compulsory Attendance at Meetings
   
Section 6.8   Committees
   
Section 6.9   Investigations
CHAPTER VII.  CITY LEGISLATION
   
Section 7.1   Public Health and Safety
   
Section 7.2   Validity of Ordinances
   
Section 7.3   Compilations, Codification, and Publication of Charter and
Ordinances
   
Section 7.4   Form of Ordinances
   
Section 7.5   Enactment, Amendment, and Repeal of Ordinances
   
Section 7.6   Effective Date of Ordinances
   
Section 7.7   Publication of Ordinances
   
Section 7.8   Penalties and Bureau of Civil Violations
   
Section 7.9   Licenses
   
Section 7.10   Streets and Alleys
   
Section 7.11   Initiative and Referendum
   
Section 7.12   Council Procedure on Petitions
   
Section 7.13   Submission to Electors
   
Section 7.14   Ordinance Suspended
   
Section 7.15   Conflicting Ordinances
   
Section 7.16   Continuation of Existing Ordinances
CHAPTER VIII.  GENERAL FINANCE, BUDGET AUDIT, PURCHASING
   
Section 8.1   Fiscal Year
   
Section 8.2   Budget Procedure
   
Section 8.3   Budget Document
   
Section 8.4   Budget Hearings
   
Section 8.5   Adoption of Budget and Tax Levy
   
Section 8.6   Transfer of Appropriations
   
Section 8.7   Budget Control
   
Section 8.8   Receiving, Depositing, and Investing City Funds
   
Section 8.9   Independent Audit and Manager’s Report
   
Section 8.10   Purchasing Procedure: Bids, Contracts, Regulations
   
Section 8.11   Expenditure of Funds for Dispute Resolution
CHAPTER IX.  TAXATION
   
Section 9.1   Power to Provide Funds
   
Section 9.2   Subject of Taxation
   
Section 9.3   Board of Review
   
Section 9.4   Meeting of the Board of Review
   
Section 9.5   Notice of Meetings
   
Section 9.6   Duties of Board of Review
   
Section 9.7   Clerk-Treasurer to Certify Tax Levy
   
Section 9.8   City Tax Roll
   
Section 9.9   Tax Roll Certified for Collection
   
Section 9.10   Taxes Lien on Property
   
Section 9.11   Collection Fees and Interest
   
Section 9.12   County and School Taxes
   
Section 9.13   Failure or Refusal to Pay Taxes
   
Section 9.14   Tax Roll to County Treasurer
CHAPTER X.  BORROWING POWER
   
Section 10.1   General Borrowing Power
   
Section 10.2   Special Assessment Bonds
   
Section 10.3   Other Bonds
   
Section 10.4   Preparation and Record of Bonds
   
Section 10.5   Unissued Bonds
   
Section 10.6   Limitation on Indebtedness
CHAPTER XI.  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   
Section 11.1   Council Resolution
   
Section 11.2   Procedure Set by Ordinance
CHAPTER XII.  MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
   
Section 12.1   General Powers
   
Section 12.2   Rates
   
Section 12.3   Utility Charges: Collection
   
Section 12.4   Accounts
   
Section 12.5   Disposal of Utility Plants and Property
CHAPTER XIII.  CONTRACTS, FRANCHISES, PERMITS 
   
Section 13.1   City May Perform Public Works 
   
Section 13.2   Plans and Specifications
   
Section 13.3   Contracts
   
Section 13.4   Limitation on Leasing of City Property
   
Section 13.5   Franchises
   
Section 13.6   Leases, Licenses and Franchises Remain in Effect
   
Section 13.7   Control and Revocation of Franchise
   
Section 13.8   Conditions of Public Utility Franchise
   
Section 13.9   Regulations of Rates
   
Section 13.10   Use of Street by Utility
CHAPTER XIV.  CITY PLANNING BOARD
   
Section 14.1   Planning Board Organization
   
Section 14.2   Term of Office
   
Section 14.3   Organization and Officers
   
Section 14.4   Responsibilities and Duties
   
Section 14.5   Meetings
   
Section 14.6   Removal from Office
CHAPTER XV.  CEMETERY BOARD
   
Section 15.1   City Cemetery
   
Section 15.2   Cemetery Lands
   
Section 15.3   Board of Cemetery Trustees
   
Section 15.4   Appropriation for Cemetery
   
Section 15.5   Term of Office
   
Section 15.6   Removal from Office
   
Section 15.7   Organization and Officers
   
Section 15.8   Cemetery Management
   
Section 15.9   Perpetual Care Funds
   
Section 15.10   Cemetery Ordinance Enforcement
   
Section 15.11   Cemetery Moneys to be Paid to City Treasurer
   
Section 15.12   Financial Self-sustainability
   
Section 15.13   Meetings
CHAPTER XVI.  MISCELLANEOUS
   
Section 16.1   No Estoppel by Presentation
   
Section 16.2   Records to be Public
   
Section 16.3   Compliance with the Open Meetings Act
   
Section 16.4   Tense
   
Section 16.5   Headings
   
Section 16.6   Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter
   
Section 16.7   Weekends and Holidays
CHAPTER XVII.  SCHEDULE
   
Section 17.1   Election to Adopt this Charter
   
Section 17.2   Form of Ballot
   
Section 17.3   Effective Date of this Charter
   
Section 17.4   Continuation in Office
   
Section 17.5   First Election Under this Charter
   
Section 17.6   Statute of Schedule Chapter
   Resolution of Adoption by the Charter Commission of the City of Reading,
Michigan
PREAMBLE
We the people of the City of Reading, Hillsdale County, Michigan, by authority
of the Constitution of Michigan and Act 279 of 1909 [M.C.L. 117.1 et seq., MSA
5.2071 et seq.] hereby ordain and establish this home rule charter for the City
of Reading.
CHAPTER I.  CONTINUATION OF EXISTING CORPORATION: BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1  Continuation of Existing Corporation
   The municipal corporation known as the City of Reading, in the County of
Hillsdale and State of Michigan, as its limits now are or hereafter may be
established, shall continue as a body politic and corporate under the same
name.
Section 1.2  Alteration of Boundaries
   Territory may be attached to or detached from the City in the manner
provided by State law.
CHAPTER II.  GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section 2.1  General Municipal Powers
   The City of Reading and its officers, unless otherwise provided or limited
by this Charter, shall be vested with any and all powers, privileges, and
immunities, expressed and implied, that the Constitution and laws of the State
of Michigan including Public Act 279 of 1909 [M.C.L. 117.1 et seq., MSA 5.2071
et seq.] now or in the future, may provide.  No enumeration of particular
powers, privileges, or immunities in this Charter shall be held to be
exclusive.
Section 2.2  Additional Powers of the City
   The City and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal powers
in managing and controlling municipal property and in administering the
municipal government, whether such powers are expressly enumerated or not; to
do any act to advance the interests of the City, the good government and
prosperity of the municipality and its residents, and through its regularly
constituted authority, to pass and enforce all ordinances and resolutions
relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the constitution and general
laws of the State and the provisions of this Charter.
Section 2.3  Exercise of Power
   When no procedure is set forth in this Charter for the exercise of any power
granted to or possessed by the City and its officers, the City may employ any
procedure permitted by any statute of the State of Michigan.  If different
statutes provide alternate procedures, the Council shall select the procedure
it considers to be most expeditious and advantageous to the City and its
residents.  Where no procedure for the exercise of any power of the City is set
forth, either in this Charter or in any statute of the State of Michigan, the
Council may prescribe by ordinance a procedure for the exercise thereof.
Section 2.4  Succession to Properties of Present City
   The City shall succeed to, own, possess, and control all the records and
documents, all other property, whether located inside or outside the boundaries
of the City, and all privileges, grants, franchises, powers, and immunities
possessed by the existing City of Reading.
Section 2.5  Liability and Obligations of Present City
   The City shall be subject to and liable for all debts, liabilities, and
obligations of the present City in existence, and those that may be incurred in
the future.  The City shall make suitable provisions for the liquidation and
payment of these debts, liabilities, and obligations.
CHAPTER III.  PLAN OF GOVERNMENT
Section 3.1  Council-Manager Government
   This Charter establishes a Council-Manager form of government.
Section 3.2  The City Council
   The electors of the City shall elect a Council consisting of a Mayor and
four Councilors.  The Council shall be the legislative and governing body of
the City.  Except as is otherwise provided in this charter, the Council shall
have the power and authority to exercise all powers conferred upon or possessed
by the City, and the power and authority to adopt ordinances and resolutions as
it considers proper.  Wherever the word “Council” is used in this Charter, it
shall be synonymous with any other term used in any state or federal law in
referring to municipal legislative or governing bodies.
Section 3.3  Establishing City Boards
   The Council may establish such boards, as the Council considers necessary
for the best interests of the City.  The Council shall define the duties of
such boards and take such other action relating to them as is required by this
Charter or by statute.  The term of members appointed to such boards shall not
exceed three years.  Such boards shall be established for a not longer than six
years but thereafter, by the vote of the Council, they may be extended for
additional periods not exceeding six years.  The Mayor and Council shall remove
from office any member of boards and commissions of the City who is absent from
three consecutive meetings, unless the respective Board excuses an absence and
enters the reasons for absences in the Board’s official minutes.
Section 3.4  Collection of City Charges
   The Council shall provide by ordinances for the collection of all charges
for city-owned public utilities and other services provided by the City as
permitted by state law.  Such ordinances may provide that any amounts due the
city for utility and other services remaining unpaid shall be charged against
the real property on which the service was rendered unless deposits cover such
bills.  The amount of such unpaid bills shall be spread on the next regular
city tax roll after the date on which such charge became due and payable and
shall become a lien of the same character and effect as the lien created by
state and county taxes.
Section 3.5  Compensation of Councilors and Mayor
   Members of the Council and the Mayor shall be entitled to financial
compensation from the City while they hold such offices.  The amounts shall be
payable in 12 equal monthly installments. The Council may change the annual
rate of compensation with the affirmative vote of not less than four members of
the Council at a regularly called meeting held prior any General Municipal
election.  No change in the annual rate of compensation shall take effect until
the January 1 immediately following a General Municipal Election.  The rate of
annual compensation paid to the Councilors and the Mayor at the time this
charter becomes effective shall be continued until the Council changes the
annual compensation under the provisions of this charter. An ordinance or
resolution adopted by the Council prior to the effective date of this Charter
establishing an Officers Compensation Commission is repealed.
    The Council may provide for further payment to members of the Council as
reimbursement for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred while conducting
the business of the City.
Section 3.6  Responsibilities and Duties of the Mayor
   The responsibilities and duties of the Mayor are to:
   (a)   Serve as the legal and ceremonial head and chief executive officer of
the City.  The Mayor, by right, shall be permitted to speak on and vote on all
proceedings of the Council, but shall have no veto power.  The Mayor shall be
the presiding officer of the Council.
   (b)   Authenticate by signing such instruments as the Council, this Charter,
or the laws of the State and the United States require.
   (c)   Exercise only such powers as State law, this Charter, or the Council
shall specifically confer upon or require of the office.
   (d)   Be a member ex-officio of such other boards as the Council requires or
permits by ordinance or laws of this State.
   (e)   The Mayor shall nominate persons to fill vacancies on boards and
councils in not more than 45 days after the date a vacancy first occurs.  The
Mayor shall notify the Council of each nomination at least 15 days prior to the
meeting at which the Council is to consider a nomination.  Any such nomination
shall become effective only upon approval of the Council.  If the Council does
not approve or reject the nomination at its first meeting following the 15-day
notification period, the nominee shall be considered as having been approved. 
By majority vote the Council may waive the 15-day notification requirement of
this subsection.
Section 3.7  Mayor Pro-Tempore
   The City Council shall designate one of its members as Mayor Pro-Tempore to
perform the duties of the Mayor when the Mayor is temporarily unable to perform
the duties of the office.  Whenever three Councilors are present at a regular
meeting of the Council, and both the Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tempore are absent,
the three Councilors present shall elect one of the members present to act as
Acting Mayor Pro-Tempore.  The Council, so constituted, shall be empowered to
conduct the regular business of the Council.
Section 3.8  City Officers
   The City Attorney and City Assessor shall be appointed officers of the
city.  If such officers are members of a private corporation or firm with whom
the City contracts for such services, the contracts shall designate individuals
to serve in the capacity of Officer on behalf of the City.  In the event such
person shall leave the employment of the contracting corporation or firm, the
corporation or firm may designate another person to serve in that capacity with
the consent of Council.
Section 3.9  City Manager: Appointment
   The Council shall select and appoint, on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to training and
experience, a person to the position of City Manager for an indefinite period,
and shall determine the compensation for this officer.  The City Manager shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council and shall be the chief administrative
officer of the City.  Any person who has been elected or appointed to the
Council shall not be eligible for appointment as City Manager until two years
have elapsed following the expiration of the term for which the person was
elected.
Section 3.10  Responsibilities and Duties of the City Manager
   The responsibilities and duties of the City Manager shall be to:
   (a)   Supervise the enforcement of all laws and ordinances.
   (b)   Appoint and remove the heads of the several city departments whose
appointments are not otherwise specified in this Charter.
   (c)   Manage and supervise all public improvements, works, and undertakings
of the City; have charge of the construction, repair, maintenance and cleaning
of streets, sidewalks, bridges, pavements, sewers, and all public buildings or
other property belonging to the City, except as otherwise provided in this
Charter.
   (d)   Assure that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the City or
its residents in any public utility franchise, or in any contract, are
faithfully kept and performed.
   (e)   Prepare and recommend an annual budget to the Council and administer
the budget as finally adopted under policies formulated by the Council, and
keep the Council fully informed at all times as to the financial condition and
needs of the City.
   (f)   Recommend to the Council the adoption of such measures as are
necessary or expedient.
   (g)   Exercise the duties and responsibilities of personnel director of all
city employees, except as otherwise provided in this Charter, or delegate such
duties to another officer or employee of the City.  Such delegation shall not
relieve the City Manager of any responsibility for the proper conduct of such
duties.  As personnel director, the City Manager, in consultation with the
appropriate department head, shall hire all employees of the city except those
for which this charter provides for a different manner of appointment.
   (h)   Exercise and perform all administrative functions of the City that are
not imposed upon another official by this Charter or any City ordinance.
   (i)   Perform such other duties as are prescribed by this Charter or as may
be required by ordinance or by direction of the Council.
   (j)   Attend all meetings of the Council.
Section 3.11  Acting City Manager
   The Council shall appoint a person to serve as Acting City Manager during
the period of a vacancy in the office of City Manager or during the absence of
the City Manager from the City.  The Acting Manager shall have all the
responsibilities, duties, and authority of the City Manager while serving in
the capacity of City Manager.
Section 3.12  Relationship of Council to Administrative Service
   The City Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the administration
of all departments of the city government reporting to the City Manager. 
Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with
the administrative service solely through the City Manager, and neither the
Council nor any of its members shall give orders to any of the subordinates of
the City Manager.
Section 3.13  City Clerk - Treasurer: Appointment
   The Council shall select and appoint a person to serve in the dual capacity
of City Clerk and Treasurer for an indefinite term at the compensation
determined by the Council.  The Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council. The duties of City Clerk are specified in Section 3.14; of City
Treasurer in Section 3.15.
Section 3.14  City Clerk - Treasurer: Responsibilities and Duties as Clerk
   The responsibilities and duties of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be to:
   (a)   Serve as the Clerk of the Council, attend all meetings of the Council,
and maintain a permanent journal of its proceedings in the English language. 
The Clerk shall retain on file at least one copy of all ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations of the Council.
   (b)   Maintain custody of the city seal and affix it to all documents and
instruments requiring the seal, and attest the same.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall
maintain custody of all papers, documents, and records pertaining to the City
that are not properly retained in other departments.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall
give to the proper departments or officials ample notice of the expiration or
termination of any franchises, contracts, or agreements.
   (c)   Certify by signing all ordinances and resolutions enacted or passed by
the Council and perform any other duties required of the office by State law,
this Charter, or by the Council.
Section 3.15  City Clerk - Treasurer: Responsibilities and Duties as Treasurer
   The responsibilities and duties of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be to:
   (a)   Maintain custody of all money and evidences of value belonging to or
being held in trust by the City.
   (b)   Receive all money belonging to and receivable by the City, issue
receipts for all payments, and maintain an accurate record of such receipts.
   (c)   Deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only in such places as
the Council determines.
   (d)   Collect state, county, school district, city and other taxes and
payments as State law, this Charter, or the Council confers on the office.
   (e)   Perform other duties as are prescribed by this Charter or the Council.
   (f)   Maintain a system of accounts that complies with the uniform chart of
accounts required by State law and the Council.  All accounts of the City shall
be balanced at the end of each month and a report made by the Treasurer to the
Council and the City Manager.  At its discretion, the Council may assign the
responsibility of maintaining the accounts of the City to an officer or
department other than the City Treasurer.
Section 3.16  City Attorney: Appointment
   (a)   The Council shall select and contract with a person to serve as the
City Attorney for a specified term at the compensation determined by the
Council.  The Attorney shall serve in accordance with the terms of a contract
with the Council.
   (b)   The Council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matter to
which the City is a party, in which the City has an interest, or to assist and
counsel with the City Attorney.
Section 3.17  Responsibilities and Duties of the City Attorney
   The responsibilities and duties of the Attorney shall be to:
   (a)   Counsel and represent the Council on all matters relating to their
official duties; provide written opinions to any official or department of the
City when requested in writing by the Council or City Manager; and file a copy
of such opinions with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (b)   Conduct for the City all cases to which the City is a party before all
courts and other legally constituted tribunals.
   (c)   Prepare or officially review, when requested by Council, all
contracts, bonds, and other written instruments in which the City is concerned,
and certify before execution as to their legality and correctness of form.
   (d)   File in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, the original copy of all
franchises granted by the City, all agreements and contracts entered into by or
on behalf of the City, and all papers constituting a part of the proceedings in
all courts or legally constituted tribunals to which the City is a party,
together with the pertinent date and information concerning the same.
   (e)   Call to the attention of the Council and the City Manager all matters
of law and changes or developments in the law that affect the City.
   (f)   Perform such other duties as are prescribed by this Charter or the
Council.
Section 3.18  City Assessor: Appointment
   The Council shall select and contract with a person to serve as the City
Assessor for a specified term at the compensation determined by the Council.
The Assessor shall serve in accordance with the terms of contract with the
Council.
Section 3.19  City Assessor: Responsibilities and Duties
   The Assessor shall possess all the powers vested in and all the duties
imposed upon assessing officers by the laws of the State.  The Assessor shall
make and prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in the manner
prescribed by this Charter and the laws of the State and perform such other
duties as are prescribed for the Assessor by this Charter, the Council, and the
City Manager.
Section 3.20  Official Performance; Deputies and Subordinates
   Whenever this Charter requires an officer to perform a specific act, a
deputy or another subordinate may perform that act at the official’s direction,
unless otherwise prohibited or required by law.
Section 3.21  Other Administrative Officers: Appointment
   The Council may designate additional administrative officers and direct the
City Manager to appoint persons to such positions.
Section 3.22  Responsibilities and Duties of Other Administrative Officers
   The responsibilities and duties of each city department and the officers and
employees of each department shall be established by this Charter, laws of the
State, and ordinances of the City.  The City Manager, by regulation, may
prescribe for departments, officers, and employees the duties and
responsibilities consistent with this Charter, City ordinances, and State law.
CHAPTER IV.  ELECTIONS
Section 4.1  Qualifications of Electors
   All persons having the qualifications of an elector in the State, or who
will have such qualifications at the time of the next regular or special
election, and are residents in the City shall be entitled to register as an
elector of the City.
Section 4.2  Election Procedure
   The general election laws of the State shall govern all procedures relating
to registration and the conduct of City elections, except as such laws relate
to political parties or partisan procedure or as is otherwise provided by this
Charter.  The election of Councilors and the Mayor shall be conducted on a
nonpartisan basis.
Section 4.3  Terms of Office of Elective Officials
   (a)   At each General Municipal Election, as defined in Section 4.5 of this
Charter, voters shall elect one person to be Mayor and two persons to the
office of City Councilor.  The candidate for Mayor receiving the highest number
of votes for the office of Mayor shall be elected to a term of two years.  The
two candidates for the City Council receiving the highest number of votes for
the office of City Councilor shall be elected to terms of four years.  The
terms of office, subject to the provisions of Section 17.5 of this Charter,
shall begin at 12:00 noon on January 1 following the General Municipal
Election.
   (b)   In the event an election to fill the remaining portion of an unexpired
term in the office of City Councilor is conducted, the candidate receiving the
highest number of votes for the vacant term shall be elected.  If more than one
City Councilor is to be elected to fill the remainder of unexpired terms, the
candidate or candidates for the unexpired terms receiving the next highest
number of votes shall also be elected.  Persons elected to serve remaining
portions of terms shall take the oath of office immediately following the
certification of the election by the board of canvassers.
Section 4.4  At Large Election
   For purposes of conducting elections, the city shall constitute a single
ward.
Section 4.5  Election Date
   A municipal election shall be held in the City on the first Tuesday after
the first Monday in November 2003 and every odd numbered year thereafter.  This
shall be known as the General Municipal Election.  All other municipal
elections called by the Council shall be known as Special Municipal Elections. 
The City shall not conduct a primary election prior to a General or Special
Municipal Election.
Section 4.6  Special Elections
   Special municipal elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
Council when required by this Charter or the laws of the State.  However, the
Council shall not call more than two special elections during a calendar year. 
The resolution calling for a special election shall state the purpose of such
election.  No franchise, grant or license shall be submitted to the electors at
a special election, unless the expense of holding that election, as determined
by the Council, is paid to the Treasurer in advance by the petitioner for the
franchise, grant or license.
Section 4.7  Notice of Election
   The Clerk - Treasurer shall notify the public of the time and place of
holding any City election, the officers to be elected, and the questions to be
voted upon.  Unless this Charter provides otherwise, the Clerk - Treasurer
shall comply with the requirements of State election laws as they relate to
giving public notice of elections.
Section 4.8  Voting Hours
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by State Law.
Section 4.9  Election Commission
   The Clerk - Treasurer, Mayor, and City Attorney, together, shall constitute
the Election Commission.  The Election Commission shall have charge of all
activities and duties required by State law, this Charter, and any City
ordinance relating to the conduct of municipal elections.  The City Council
shall determine the compensation of personnel employed on a temporary basis to
assist in conducting elections.  In any case where the appropriate election
procedure is in doubt, the Election Commission shall prescribe the procedure to
be followed.  The Clerk - Treasurer shall preside at all meetings of the
Election Commission.  Two members shall constitute a quorum.  Members of the
Election Commission shall be paid no compensation in addition to their annual
salary or contracted compensation.
Section 4.10  Nominating Petitions
   (a)   The Clerk - Treasurer shall inform the public by published notice of
the latest date and time for receiving nominating petitions.  This notice shall
appear not less than 10 days prior to the deadline for receiving nominating
petitions. 
   (b)   A person seeking to qualify a person as a candidate for any elective
office under this Charter shall file with the Clerk - Treasurer a properly
completed nominating petition on a form secured from the Office of the Clerk -
Treasurer.  The form of petition for nomination shall be substantially as that
required by State law for nonpartisan petitions.  The Clerk - Treasurer shall
maintain a supply of official petition forms and, upon request, furnish a
reasonable number of nominating petitions.
   (c)   A nominating petition shall include the signatures of at least 15 but
not more than 25 registered electors of the City.  Each petition shall contain
the name of only one candidate.  A person shall not sign more nominating
petitions for an office than there are persons to be elected to that office.
   (d)   Each candidate for elective office shall file with his or her petition
an affidavit of identity as provided by State law.  The affidavit shall include
the name, address, number of years the candidate has been a resident of the
State, County, and City and any other information required by State law.
Failure to file the affidavit with the nominating petition shall invalidate a
candidate’s petition.
Section 4.11  Approval of Petitions
   (a)   The Clerk - Treasurer shall accept for filing only such nominating
petitions for qualified candidates as are on forms that contain the required
number of signatures.
   (b)   Within five days after receiving any nominating petition, the Clerk -
Treasurer shall determine the sufficiency of the signatures on each petition. 
If any petition is found not to contain the required number of legal
signatures, the Clerk -Treasurer shall immediately notify the candidate, in
writing, of the insufficiency of the petition.  The candidate may then obtain
additional signatures from  registered electors and may present the additional
signatures to the Clerk - Treasurer.  In no case shall a petition or
supplemental signatures be filed and accepted after the latest date and time
for receiving petitions.  The Clerk - Treasurer shall proceed to examine the
amended petition and determine whether the petition can then be certified. 
   (c)   If either the original or the amended petition of nomination contains
the appropriate number of signatures, the Clerk - Treasurer shall mark the
petition as “approved,” indicate the date of the approval, and file the
petition.
Section 4.12  Withdrawal of Nominating Petitions
   (a)   After the filing of an affidavit of candidacy by or after the filing
of a nominating petition by or on behalf of a proposed candidate for the office
of Mayor or Councilor, the candidate shall not be permitted to withdraw unless
he or she provides a written notice of withdrawal to the clerk-treasurer or the
duly authorized agent not later than 4:00 p.m. on the third day after the last
day for filling petitions.  If the third day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the notice of withdrawal may be served up to 4:00 p.m. Eastern
Standard Time, on the next secular day.
   (b)   The latest time for filing nominating petitions in the office of the
Clerk - Treasurer for each General Municipal election shall be 4:00 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time, on the ninth Tuesday prior to the date of the General
Municipal Election.  Thereafter, the Clerk - Treasurer shall certify the names
qualified to be printed on the election ballot and publish the names so
certified, the offices for which they have filed petitions, and designations
whether the candidates are to be elected to a full or the remaining portion of
an unexpired term.  The Clerk - Treasurer shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City a notice calling the election.
Section 4.13  Form of Ballots
   The form, printing, and numbering of ballots and ballot labels used in each
General Municipal election shall conform to the requirements of State law for
nonpartisan elections.
Section 4.14  Canvass of Votes
   City elections shall be canvassed in accordance with State law and the
provisions of Section 4.3 of this Charter.
Section 4.15  Recount
   Any candidate for City office, or with respect to a proposition, any City
elector, may petition the County Clerk for a recount of the votes cast in any
City election.  The petition for recounting votes and the manner of conducting
the recount shall conform to the provision of State law.
Section 4.16  Recall
   An elected official may be recalled from office by the electors of the City
under the same provisions of State law as pertain to state and county
officers.  A vacancy created by the recall of any elected official shall be
filled by Council on a temporary basis in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.4 of this Charter.  Persons appointed to fill vacancies as a result
of recalls shall serve in office until the vacancy is filled by an election
scheduled in accordance with the provisions of State law.
CHAPTER V. GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL OF THE CITY
Section 5.1  Qualifications of Mayor and Councilors
   (a)   All members of the Council shall be registered electors of the City
and persons who have been residents of the City at least one year immediately
prior to the last day for filing petitions for such office or prior to the time
of his or her appointment to fill a vacancy.  Members of the Council shall
remain residents of the City during their entire term of office.  The Council
shall be the sole judge of the election and qualifications of its members
subject only to review by the court.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible for any elective or appointive City office
who is in default to the City.  Any officer who is in such default shall
automatically be removed from office if the default is not eliminated within 30
days after written notification by the Council, unless the person, in good
faith is contesting the liability for the default.
   (c)   To qualify for appointment to a City board or Council, a person must
be a registered elector in the City and a resident of the City for at least one
year prior to the day of his or her appointment.  Members of boards or councils
shall remain registered electors and residents of the City during their tenure
in office.
   (d)   Except as permitted in this charter or state law, elective officers
may not be appointed to any office or be employed by the City during the term
for which they have been elected, nor during the six months following the end
of the term.
Section 5.2  Vacancies in Office
   If any one or more of the following events occurs before the term of any
elected officer expires, the City office is declared vacant:
   (a)   A State law creating a vacancy takes effect with respect to the
officer of the city.
   (b)   The officer of the City is continuously absent from the City for more
than 30 days without the notification to and approval by the Council.
   (c)   The officer of the City is convicted of any act constituting
misconduct in office under the provision of this Charter, a City ordinance, or
State law.
   (d)   The Mayor or a member of the Council misses three consecutive regular
meetings of the Council or three meetings in any calendar year, unless the
Council excuses such absence and the absence is entered in the minutes of the
Council.
   (e)   The officer refuses to take the Oath of Office.
   (f)   The officer is recalled from office in an election.
   (g)   The officer files and does not withdraw a written statement
resignation with the Clerk-Treasurer before the Council accepts the
resignation.
Section 5.3  Resignation of Elected Officers
   In all cases, the Council shall vote on the question of accepting a written
statement of resignation filed with the Clerk-Treasurer at its next regular
meeting.
Section 5.4  Filling Vacancies in Elective Offices
   If a vacancy occurs in any elective office, the Council shall appoint a
person who possesses the qualifications to the vacant position to serve until a
successor is elected at the next general municipal election and is qualified. 
The Council shall make such appointment at the meeting next succeeding the
meeting at which the Council accepts a resignation from office or officially
declares the vacancy. If three or more vacancies of the Council exist
simultaneously, the remaining Councilor(s) shall appoint a sufficient number of
persons to constitute a quorum of the Council. When a quorum of the council is
established, the Council shall order the Clerk-Treasurer to call a special
election as soon as is legally possible for the purpose of filing the
vacancies. 
Section 5.5  Change in Term of Office or Compensation
   The Council shall not shorten or lengthen the term of any elected officer,
except that elected officers of the City shall continue to hold office until
their successors are elected and have qualified.  The Council shall not grant
or authorize extra compensation to any officer, employee, agent, or contractor
after the service has been rendered or the contract entered into.
Section 5.6  Oath of Office and Bonds
   Every City officer shall take the oath of office prescribed by the
Constitution of the State and shall file the same with the Clerk - Treasurer,
together with any bond this Charter or the Council may require.  Officers who
refuse to comply with the provisions of this section within ten days after the
beginning of a term of office or date of appointment shall be considered to
have declined the office.  The office shall then become vacant unless the
Council extends the time in which the officer may qualify as required in this
section.
Section 5.7  Surety Bonds
   The Council, on its own action or upon recommendation of the City Manager,
shall determine whether an officer or employee must give a bond to the City
and, if so, the amount of the bond.  The bond must be secured from a surety
company licensed to do business under the laws of Michigan.  The City shall pay
the premiums on such bonds.  It is the duty of the Council to procure such
bonds.  All bonds of all officers and employees shall be filed with the Clerk -
Treasurer except that the bond of the Clerk - Treasurer shall be filed with the
City Manager.
Section 5.8  Personal Financial Interests.
   Except as permitted by state law, no City officer or employee shall be a
party, directly or indirectly, to any contract between himself or herself and
the City.
Section 5.9  Appointments, Removals, and Promotions
   Appointments, removals, and promotions of officers and employees of the City
shall be based upon their qualifications and performance of duties, without any
reference to their political or religious preferences or ethnic origins.
CHAPTER VI.  PROCEDURES OF THE CITY COUNCIL
Section 6.1  Council Meetings
   The city hall shall be the regular meeting place for the Council. However,
upon giving public notice of at least 18 hours, the Council may hold meetings
in other locations in the City.  The Council, except in instances when the
Council is meeting in closed session as permitted by law, shall always meet at
locations where the public has opportunity to observe Council deliberations. 
At its first meeting in January, the Council, by resolution or ordinance, shall
adopt a schedule of its regular meeting day and time.  At that or the next
meeting the Council shall adopt its rules of procedure. This section shall not
be interpreted to mean that Council is prohibited from meeting in locations
outside the city for purposes of educational or long-term planning purposes.
Section 6.2  Special Meetings
   The Clerk - Treasurer shall notify members of the Council of special
meetings upon the written request of the Mayor, the City Manager, or any two
Councilors.  Notice of special meetings shall be delivered to Councilors
personally or left at their usual places of residence at least 18 hours prior
to the time of the meeting.  At the same time, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give
notice of special meetings in accordance with the provisions of the State Open
Meetings Law.  Any special meeting at which four Council members are present or
have waived notice thereof in writing, shall be a legal meeting for all
purposes if the public and the media firms have received notice as provided in
this section.  The Council may hold an emergency meeting upon the call of the
Mayor, City Manager, or two Council members without giving notice as required
in this section if delay would threaten severe and imminent danger to the
health, safety, and welfare of the public, and four Councilor members at the
meeting vote to approve proceeding under emergency conditions. 
Section 6.3  Business at Special Meetings
   The business to be transacted at any special meeting of the Council shall
have been stated in the notice of the meeting.  However, if four members are
present, the Council may conduct in a special meeting any business that may
come before a regular meeting of the Council.  The Council shall determine in
its rules and procedures the manner of proceeding in special meetings.
Section 6.4  Meetings to be Public
   All meetings of the Council shall be open to the public and shall comply
with the provisions of the State Open Meetings Act.  The Council may meet in
sessions closed to the general public for the purposes and in the manner
provided by State law.  In its rules of procedure, the Council shall provide
residents and other members of the public a reasonable opportunity to address
the Council.
Section 6.5  Quorum
   Three members of the Council shall constitute a quorum for transacting the
business of the Council.  If a quorum is not present, two members may adjourn
the meeting to a later day and time.
Section 6.6  Voting and Publication of Minutes
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall call the name of each Councilor for his or
her vote on all ordinances and resolutions and record each vote in the
journal.  However, when the Mayor determines that the vote is unanimous and no
Councilor objects, the Mayor may direct the Clerk-Treasurer to record in the
journal a unanimous vote.  Each Councilor shall vote on all questions before
the Council unless he or she asserts a financial interest under the provisions
of Section 5.8.
   (b)   The Official Proceedings of the Council, or a synopsis thereof showing
the substance of each separate proceeding, shall be printed in one newspaper or
municipal newsletter of general circulation in the City within 15 days after
the meeting at which the Council approves the minutes. Copies of draft minutes
not approved by the Council shall be available in compliance with the
requirements of the State Open Meetings Act. If a synopsis is to be published,
it shall be prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer and approved by the Mayor.
Section 6.7  Compulsory Attendance at Meetings
   By vote of at least two members, the Council may compel the attendance of
its members and other City officers at its regular and special meetings.  Any
Councilor or other City officer, who, having been informed of the vote to
require attendance, refuses to attend such meeting may be charged with
misconduct in office.
Section 6.8  Committees
   The Council shall have no standing committees.  However, as the Council’s
rules of procedure permit, the Mayor may establish committees of the Council to
carry out specific responsibilities for limited periods.
Section 6.9  Investigations
   The Council, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire and investigate into the conduct of any department,
office, officer, or other matters pertaining to the City.  For these purposes
the Council or its designee may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and
compel the presentation of books, papers, and other evidence.  Failure on the
part of any officer of the City to comply with orders issued under the
provisions of this Section shall constitute misconduct in office.  Such failure
on the part of any City employee shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than $500, a sentence of not more than 90 days in the county
jail or both.
CHAPTER VII.  CITY LEGISLATION
Section 7.1  Public Health and Safety
   The Council shall provide for the public peace, health, and welfare of City
residents, for the safety of persons and property, and for the protection of
the natural environment of the City.  The Council may delegate its duties and
responsibilities to City officers, departments, and agencies.  However, the
Council shall oversee the execution of these fundamental purposes of the City.
Section 7.2  Validity of Ordinances
   Unless an ordinance expressly provides differently, any portion of an
ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance found to be
invalid by a court shall not affect the remaining portions of the ordinance if
they can be given effect without the invalid portion and they are not
determined by the court to be inoperable.
Section 7.3  Compilations, Codification, and Publication of Charter and
Ordinances
   Within one year after the adoption of this Charter and at least once in
every ten years, the Council shall provide for the compilation or codification
and publication of the Charter and all City ordinances then in force.  For
copies thereof, the Council may impose a charge that is consistent with the
provisions of the State Freedom of Information Act.
Section 7.4  Form of Ordinances
   (a)   All legislation of the City shall be by ordinance or by resolution. 
All laws of the Council imposing a penalty for violating the law shall be by
ordinance.  A number and a short title shall identify each ordinance.  Each
proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form.  The style
of all ordinances passed by the Council shall be “The City of Reading ordains.”
The Council may adopt an ordinance upon the affirmative vote of three or more
of its members.
   (b)   A resolution, as used in this Charter, shall be an official action of
the Council and shall be limited to matters pertaining to the internal policy
and affairs of the City government or to matters required or permitted to be
done by resolution by this Charter or by State or Federal law. The Council may
adopt a resolution upon the affirmative vote of three or more of its members.
Section 7.5  Enactment, Amendment, and Repeal of Ordinances
   The Council may enact, amend, or repeal ordinances by the affirmative vote
of three or more Council members.  The Council may create or abolish no office,
impose no tax assessment, close no street, alley or public ground, sell or
dispose of no real estate or any interest therein, take no private property for
public use, reconsider or rescind any vote of the Council except upon the
affirmative vote of at least four of its members.  When revising or amending an
ordinance, the Council shall enter the changes in each of the affected
sections.  The Council may repeal an ordinance by reference to the number and
title only.
Section 7.6  Effective Date of Ordinances
   (a)   Each ordinance shall include an effective date and take effect at that
time unless the ordinance imposes a penalty in which case the effective date of
the ordinance shall not be less than 10 days after the date of its
publication.  The Council may make any ordinance effective immediately if, upon
the vote of not less than four members, it declares the public safety, health,
and welfare to be at risk.
   (b)   An ordinance adopted by Council to address a condition declared by
Council to be an emergency may take effect upon the posting of notices in not
less than five public places in the City.
Section 7.7  Publication of Ordinances
   The Council shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer to publish in the municipal
newsletter, if one is published, or a newspaper circulated in the City the
title and summary of each ordinance enacted.  When the Council enacts revisions
in or amendments to an ordinance, the Council shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer
to publish in a newspaper or the municipal newsletter circulated in the City,
the title of the ordinance and the headings or titles of the sections revised
or amended.  The Council shall also direct the Clerk-Treasurer to post the
ordinance or the revised or amended sections of an ordinance in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer and in 2 other public places in the City and, upon request,
provide copies of such ordinances or amendments.
Section 7.8  Penalties and Bureau of Civil Violations
   The Council shall provide in its ordinances for the punishment of violations
of the ordinances of the City.  Such punishment may be by a fine not exceeding
$500 or by imprisonment of not to exceed 90 days, or both, in the discretion of
the court.  The Council shall also provide, on regulatory subjects not
forbidden by state law, for the imposition of civil penalties in those
instances where the person charged with violating an ordinance accepts
admission of responsibility for alleged acts.  Civil penalties for such
violations shall be specified in the respective ordinances and shall be
administered by the City Administration or by agents under contract with the
City.
Section 7.9  Licenses
   The Council, by ordinance, shall prescribe the terms and conditions upon
which licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked.  The City may require
payment of a reasonable fee for any license.  If the pertinent ordinance so
requires, the person applying for a license, before receiving the license,
shall execute a bond to the City as described by the ordinance.  The bond shall
be conditioned for the full observance of the ordinance under which the license
is granted.
Section 7.10  Streets and Alleys
   (a)   Except as limited by State law and this Charter, the Council is
authorized to establish, vacate, use, patrol, and regulate streets, alleys,
bridges and public places as well as the space above and beneath them.  Such
power shall include, but not be limited to, the proper policing and supervision
of public places; licensing, regulating or prohibiting the placement of signs,
awnings, awning posts, and other things which impede or make unsafe the use of
sidewalks or streets; licensing and regulating of construction and use of
openings of sidewalks and streets and of all vaults, structures, and
excavations under the same.
   (b)   When the Council proposes to vacate, discontinue, or abolish any
highway, street, lane, alley or public ground or any part thereof, it shall set
a time for a public hearing to hear objections to the proposed action.  The
Clerk-Treasurer shall provide public notice of the public hearing in the manner
prescribed by ordinance or resolution.  The public hearing shall not be held
less than 28 days before the date of the proposed action.  Written objections
to a proposed action may be filed with the Clerk -Treasurer.
   (c)   By submitting a petition to the Clerk-Treasurer, electors of the City
may propose an ordinance to the Council or call for a referendum on an
ordinance enacted by the Council.
Section 7.11  Initiative and Referendum
   To qualify, a petition:
   (a)   Must have been approved as to form by the City Attorney prior to being
circulated.
   (b)   Must have been signed by registered electors equal in number to 25% of
the votes cast for Mayor in the most  recent general municipal election.
   (c)   Must contain only signatures that were obtained within the 60 days
preceding the filing of the petition with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (d)    Shall contain the full text of the proposed ordinance and shall
follow the general form of petitions provided by State law and comply with the
general standards for petitions established by State law.
   (e)   Shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer who shall have 15 days to
determine the sufficiency of the petitions and to so certify.  If the Clerk-
Treasurer finds the petition to be insufficient or improper, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall immediately notify the person who filed the petition.  The
person shall then have 15 days from such notification to file supplemental
petition papers.  When the Clerk-Treasurer determines the petition is
sufficient and proper, the Clerk-Treasurer shall present the petition to the
Council at its next regular meeting.
Section 7.12  Council Procedure on Petitions
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition the Council, within 30
days, shall either:
   (a)    Adopt the ordinance as submitted by an initiatory petition;
   (b)    Repeal the ordinance referred to by a referendary petition; or
   (c)   Determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to the
electors in a special election.
Section 7.13  Submission to Electors
   Should the Council decide to submit the proposal to the electors, the
petition shall be submitted at the next election held in the City for any other
purpose, or in the discretion of the Council, at a special election.  The
result of the election shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the question.
Section 7.14  Ordinance Suspended
   Certification of a referendary petition shall automatically suspend the
ordinance in question, pending repeal by the Council or determination by the
electors.  The Council may not amend or repeal an ordinance adopted by the
electorate through initiatory proceedings during the two-year period
immediately following the date of the election at which it was adopted and
after such period only by the affirmative vote of four members of the Council. 
Section 7.15  Conflicting Ordinances
   Should two or more ordinances adopted at the same election have conflicting
provisions, the ordinance receiving the highest number of votes shall prevail
as to the conflicting provisions.
Section 7.16  Continuation of Existing Ordinances
   All ordinances of the City and all regulations and resolutions of the
Council in force at the time this charter shall take effect and not
inconsistent with the provisions thereof, shall remain and be in force until
amended, or repealed.
CHAPTER VIII.  GENERAL FINANCE, BUDGET AUDIT, PURCHASING
Section 8.1  Fiscal Year
   The fiscal year of the City shall begin on the first day of July and end on
the 30th day of the following June.
Section 8.2  Budget Procedure
   On or before the second Monday in March, each officer and department head
shall present to the City Manager an estimate of the expenditures during the
next fiscal year for the department and programs under her or his control.  The
City Manager shall prepare a complete budget plan for the next succeeding
fiscal year and submit it to the Council on or before the first Monday in May.
Section 8.3  Budget Document
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year.  It shall include at least the following information:
   (a)   Expenditures proposed by the City Manager for each City department and
program and activity center for each operating fund, showing the expenditures
for corresponding categories or programs for the current and prior fiscal year,
and reasons for the recommended increases and decreases.
   (b)   Statements of the City’s bonded and other indebtedness showing the
debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized but not issued,
and the balance of all debt reserve funds.
   (c)   Estimates of all anticipated City revenues, by fund, from sources
other than general taxes and borrowing, and the amounts received by the City
from each of the same, or similar sources, during the prior and current fiscal
year.
   (d)   The estimated balance of unexpended and unobligated funds at the end
of the current fiscal year.
   (e)   An estimate of the amount to be raised from current and delinquent
taxes and borrowing which, together with income from other sources, will be
necessary to pay the proposed expenditures.
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules and information as the Council
considers necessary or State law requires.
Section 8.4  Budget Hearings
   The Council shall conduct a public hearing on the budget before finally
adopting the annual budget.  The Clerk shall publish a notice of the public
hearing at least one week prior to the hearing.  A copy of the proposed budget
shall be on file and available to the public for inspection during the office
hours at the office of the Clerk for at least one week prior to the public
hearing.
Section 8.5  Adoption of Budget and Tax Levy
   The Council shall approve the budget for each succeeding fiscal year not
later than the first Monday in June.  The expenditure authorizations shall be
summarized and approved in accordance with appropriate activity centers
consistent with State requirements.  Each activity center shall show an
estimate of expenditures by object codes prescribed by the Michigan Department
of Treasury.  In its approving resolution, the Council shall also determine the
amount to be raised by tax upon real and personal property for City purposes. 
The levy shall not exceed 18 mills of the taxable value of all real and
personal property subject to taxation in the City.  Not less than 10% of the
total levy herein shall be reserved in a fund restricted for capital
improvements.  In no case shall Council increase the total tax rate of the City
by more than 1 mill over the total mills levied during the immediately
preceding year. 
Section 8.6  Transfer of Appropriations
   After the budget has been adopted or amended, all money drawn from the City
treasury and obligations incurred to expend money shall be consistent with the
amounts appropriated for each activity center and purposes stated in the
budget.  The Council may transfer any part of an unencumbered appropriation
balance from one department account to another but such transfers shall not
include financial resources designated by law or this Charter as restricted
funds.  The Council may require the reversion of all unobligated appropriations
remaining in the general fund at the end of a fiscal year for reappropriation
in the subsequent fiscal year.
Section 8.7  Budget Control
   The City Manager shall report to the Council at least once each calendar
quarter on the fiscal condition of the City.  If it appears that expenditures
will be greater than the sum of projected revenues and other available funds,
the City Manager shall recommend appropriate actions to the Council.  The
Council shall reduce appropriations to the extent necessary to prevent a
deficit balance at the end of the fiscal year.  The Council shall not reduce
appropriations required to pay current debt and interest charges.
Section 8.8  Receiving, Depositing, and Investing City Funds
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receive all City money, regardless of the source,
and shall deposit it promptly in depositories designated by the Council.  The
Council shall provide for the security of City money as is authorized or
permitted by State law.  Personal surety bonds shall not be considered proper
security.  The City Manager and Clerk-Treasurer shall propose, and the Council
shall adopt, a policy governing the placement of City money.  Among the matters
to be covered in the policy approved by the Council are the following:
   (a)   Minimum security standards for financial institutions acting as
depositories for City money;
   (b)   The types of interest-bearing investments, consistent with State law,
the Clerk-Treasurer may make with City funds;
   (c)   The general performance standards for investment of City money;
   (d)   The frequency of the Clerk-Treasurer’s reports on City investments;
and
   (e)   The practices regarding the crediting of interest earnings to the
several City accounts.
Section 8.9  Independent Audit and Manager’s Report
   (a)   The Council shall contract for an independent audit of all accounts of
the City government at least once each year.  The audit shall be made by
certified public accountants experienced in municipal accounting.  In no case
shall the Council approve or extend a contract to have the same firm audit city
accounts for more than six successive years.  The results of the audit shall be
available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
   (b)   The City Manager shall produce an annual report of City business.  The
report, to be made available to the residents of the City, shall disclose facts
describing the activities and financial transactions of the City in summary
form.
Section 8.10  Purchasing Procedure: Bids, Contracts, Regulations
   The City Manager shall be responsible for purchases made by the City and
shall obtain formal sealed bids in all transactions, except those involving the
employment of professional services, involving the expenditure of $10,000 or
more. Any such transaction, evidenced by written contract or purchase order,
shall be submitted to the Council for its approval.  The Council may accept or
reject any and all bids. The amount of $10,000 may be adjusted periodically to
reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index as stated by the U.S. Government.
In the event of an emergency, the Council may temporarily suspend one or more
provisions of this section.  In declaring an emergency under this section, the
Council shall:
   (a)   Define the emergency.
   (b)   State the anticipated term of the emergency that shall not exceed 120
days
   (c)   Approve the suspension by the affirmative vote of not less than four
Council members.
Section 8.11  Expenditure of Funds for Dispute Resolution
   The Council or any other officer shall not authorize the expenditure of City
funds for legal counsel on behalf of any City officer or employee to resolve a
dispute over the application of the provisions of this Charter, City ordinance,
or State law unless the dispute is first submitted to the mediation and
arbitration procedures recommended by the American Arbitration Association.  If
such procedures do not resolve the dispute, the Council, in its discretion, may
authorize the expenditure of funds for legal counsel.  The Council is not
prohibited from authorizing the expenditure of funds for legal counsel if the
plaintiff in the dispute sues the City or one of its officers.
CHAPTER IX.  TAXATION
Section 9.1  Power to Provide Funds
   The City shall have the power to assess taxes, and establish and collect
rents, tolls, and excises.
Section 9.2  Subject of Taxation
   Property subject to ad valorem taxation for purposes of levying a tax on
real and personal property for municipal purposes shall be the same as for
state, county, and school purposes under the general State law.  Property taxes
shall be levied, collected, and returned in the manner provided by State law.
Section 9.3  Board of Review
   The Council shall establish a Board of Review and appoint three residents of
the City to the Board for three-year terms.  The terms shall be staggered so
that the term of one member expires on December 31 of each year.  Persons who
are members of the board when this Charter becomes effective shall continue in
office until such time as their appointments expire.  Two members of the Board
of Review shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  The
Council shall establish the compensation for this office.  The Assessor shall
be the Clerk of the Board of Review and may be heard but shall not vote on
Board actions.  Members of the Board who regularly fail to attend the meetings
of the Board or who conduct themselves in a disorderly manner may be charged
with misconduct in office.
Section 9.4  Meeting of the Board of Review
   The Board of Review shall perform in the City those duties assigned by State
law to township boards of review.  The Board of Review shall elect its own
chairperson at its first meeting in each calendar year.  If the chairperson is
absent, those in attendance may elect a member to be temporary chairperson. 
Section 9.5  Notice of Meetings
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice of the time and place of the meeting
of the Board of Review at least one week prior to the meeting in the municipal
newsletter or a newspaper circulated in the City.
Section 9.6  Duties of Board of Review
   The Board of Review shall consider the spoken or written complaints of all
persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessments.  If, in the judgment
of the Board, the property in question has been improperly classified,
assessed, added to, or omitted from the roll, the Board shall correct the roll,
as it considers appropriate and consistent with State law.  After the Board of
Review has completed its review of the assessment roll, a majority of its
members shall indorse the assessment roll as approved by the Board.
Section 9.7  Clerk-Treasurer to Certify Tax Levy
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which the
Council determines to raise by general property tax; all amounts of special
assessment which the Council requires to be assessed or reassessed upon any
property or against any person; and all other amounts which the Council may
determine shall be charged, assessed or reassessed against any person or
property.
Section 9.8  City Tax Roll
   After the last meeting of the Board of Review in the spring cycle and upon
receiving from the Clerk-Treasurer certification of the several amounts to be
raised, the Assessor shall spread upon the approved assessment roll the amounts
determined by the Council to be charged, assessed, or reassessed against
persons or property in accordance with State law.
Section 9.9  Tax Roll Certified for Collection
   After extending the taxes on the assessment roll, the Assessor shall certify
said tax roll and attach his or her warrant to the roll and thereby direct and
require the Clerk-Treasurer-Treasurer to collect from the several persons named
in the roll, the amounts shown opposite their respective names as a tax or
assessment.
Section 9.10 Taxes Lien on Property
   The taxes thus levied on July 1 or, if later, as soon as they are levied,
shall become an obligation to the City from the persons against whom they are
levied.  The amounts levied, together with all legal charges, shall be a lien
upon the property taxed until they are paid.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall have
the authority and duty to collect the City taxes as required by State law and
granted to township treasurers in collecting state, school, and county taxes.
Section 9.11  Collection Fees and Interest
   City taxes and tax collection fees shall be due on the first day of July of
each year.  City taxes paid or postmarked, if payment is by mail, on or before
the following August 31 shall be collected without additional charge.  To all
taxes paid on September 1 or later the Clerk - Treasurer shall add one-half of
1% for each and every month, or fraction of a month, to the taxes remaining
unpaid, together with a collection fee of 4% of the amount of the unpaid
taxes.  If September 1 is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall receive tax payments on the next workday without additional
charge.  The Council, by resolution, may authorize the Clerk-Treasurer to
accept partial payments on taxes and special assessments together with interest
and collection charges until the next March 1.
Section 9.12  County and School Taxes
   For the purpose of assessing and collecting taxes for state, county, and
school purposes, the City shall be considered the same as a township.  All
provisions of State law relative to collecting and accounting for taxes and tax
collection fees to be paid and the returning of property to the County
treasurer for non-payment shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer.  If school taxes
are collected at the same time as City taxes, they shall be collected subject
to the same conditions as City taxes.
Section 9.13  Failure or Refusal to Pay Taxes
   If any person fails to pay any tax imposed upon his or her personal
property, the Clerk - Treasurer shall proceed to collect such taxes in
accordance with procedures specified by State law.
Section 9.14  Tax Roll to County Treasurer
   On the first day of March following receipt of the tax roll, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall return all unpaid taxes on real property to the County
Treasurer in the same manner as pertains to township treasurers under State
law.  The returns shall include all the additional charges and fees provided
for in the previous Sections.  The taxes thus returned shall remain in a lien
upon the lands against which they are assessed, until paid.
CHAPTER X.  BORROWING POWER
Section 10.1  General Borrowing Power
   Subject to the applicable provisions of State law and this Charter, the
Council, by ordinance or resolution, may direct City officers to borrow money
for any purpose within the scope of the powers vested in the City and to issue
bonds or other evidences of City indebtedness.  The Council shall not issue
unlimited tax bonds without the approval of a majority of the electors voting
in an election on a proposal to issue such bonds.
Section 10.2  Special Assessment Bonds
   The Council, subject to the applicable provisions of State law, may borrow
money in anticipation of collecting special assessments made for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any public improvement, or issue bonds in anticipation of
collecting any combination of special assessments.  The special assessment
bonds may be solely an obligation of the related special assessment district or
districts or may be both an obligation of the special assessment district or
districts and a general obligation of the City.  All collections on each
special assessment roll, or combination of rolls, shall be set apart in a
separate fund for the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds issued
in anticipation of the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used
for no other purpose.
Section 10.3  Other Bonds
   The City may issue revenue, limited tax, or other types of bonds in the
manner and for the purposes permitted by the Constitution and general laws of
the State of Michigan. 
Section 10.4  Preparation and Record of Bonds
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose for which the bond is issued.  An officer of
the City who uses the proceeds of any bond for any other purpose shall be
charged with misconduct in office.  All bonds and other evidence of
indebtedness issued by the City shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned
by the Clerk-Treasurer, under the seal of the City.  Interest coupons may be
executed with the facsimile signatures of the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer.  The
Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a complete and detailed record of all bonds and
other evidences of indebtedness issued by the City.  When any bond or other
evidence of indebtedness is paid, the Clerk-Treasurer shall mark it “Canceled.”
Section 10.5  Unissued Bonds
   No unissued bonds of the City shall be sold to secure funds for any purpose
other than that for which they were specifically authorized.  If such bonds are
not sold within five years after authorization, the authorization shall be void
and the bonds canceled.
Section 10.6  Limitation on Indebtedness
   (a)   The City indebtedness by the issue of unlimited and limited tax bonds
or other unlimited or limited tax evidences of indebtedness, including existing
indebtedness, shall not exceed 10% of the assessed valuation of the real and
personal property within the City.  However, any moneys on hand reserved for
the payment of indebtedness to that extent may be considered as a reduction of
the City’s indebtedness. 
   (b)   In the event of fire, flood, or other calamity requiring an emergency
expenditure to provide relief to City residents to repair or rebuild city
facilities, the Council may borrow an amount equal to three-eighths of 1% of
the assessed valuation of the City, notwithstanding that the loan may exceed
the limitation on indebtedness established by this Section and State law.  Such
indebtedness shall be due in not more than five years from the date of
issuance.
CHAPTER XI.  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section 11.1  Council Resolution
   The Council shall have authority, by resolution, to determine that the
entire cost or any part of the cost of a public improvement is to be paid by
special assessments on property especially benefited.  The resolution shall
state the estimated cost of the improvement, what proportion of the
improvement’s cost is to be paid by special assessment, and what part, if any,
is to be paid by the City, and the number of installments in which assessments
may be paid.  The Council shall also designate the district or the land and
properties on which the special assessments are to be levied.
Section 11.2  Procedure Set by Ordinance
   The Council shall prescribe by ordinance, consistent with state law, the
complete special assessment procedure concerning plans and specifications,
estimating costs, notices of hearings, preparing the assessment roll,
correcting errors, collecting special assessments, and any other matters
pertinent to the process of making improvements with special assessments.
CHAPTER XII.  MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section 12.1  General Powers
   The City shall possess, and hereby reserves to itself, all the powers
granted cities by the Michigan Constitution and State law to own, operate, and
maintain public utilities for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage
treatment, and disposing or recycling of waste, as well as facilities for
housing its citizens.  The City may sell and deliver these and other services
to residents in the City, and it may sell and deliver water, light, heat,
power, gas and other utility services outside the City to the extent permitted
by State law.
Section 12.2  Rates
   The Council shall have the power to set and change the rates for City
utility services.
Section 12.3  Utility Charges: Collection
   The Council, by ordinance, shall provide for collecting all City public
utility charges.  If a utility customer fails to pay the City any amounts due
on utility bills, the City may discontinue the service.  The City may initiate
a suit to collect the amounts due in court.
Section 12.4  Accounts
   The City shall maintain separate accounts for each public utility the City
owns and operates.  The accounting procedures used shall comply with the
provisions of State law and the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. 
After each fiscal year the City shall produce a report on the financial results
and make the report available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk.
Section 12.5  Disposal of Utility Plants and Property
   The Council is not authorized to sell, exchange, lease, or dispose of any
unexpendable assets belonging to any City utility system unless three-fifths of
the voters approve the proposition for such purpose in an election.  The
provisions of this section, however, shall not apply to the sale or exchange of
equipment which is worn out or useless or which, with advantage to the service,
could be replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment.
CHAPTER XIII.  CONTRACTS, FRANCHISES, PERMITS
Section 13.1  City May Perform Public Works
   The Council shall have the authority to do any public work or make any
public improvement by employing the necessary labor and purchasing the
necessary supplies and materials.  Alternatively, the Council may accomplish a
public work or improvement by competitively bid contracts or by any legally
constituted plan under which the labor is furnished by an agency of the U.S.
Government or the State of Michigan.
Section 13.2  Plans and Specifications
   The City Manager is responsible for preparing plans and specifications,
estimating the costs, advertising for bids, supervising, and approving the work
for any public work or public improvement except where this Charter provides
differently.
Section 13.3  Contracts
   (a)   Whenever it is desirable for the City to enter into a contract in
excess of $10,000 with a second party, the City Attorney shall draw or approve
the instrument as to form.  The officer charged with maintaining the City
accounting system shall certify as to the sufficiency of funds. Copies of all
contracts in excess of $10,000 shall be filed in the office of the Clerk -
Treasurer.  The amount of $10,000 may be adjusted periodically to reflect
changes in the Consumer Price Index as stated by the U.S. Government.
   (b) Alterations or change orders to contracts shall be made only by
resolution of the Council.  No such order shall be effective until the price to
be paid for the material and work under the altered contract, has been agreed
to and the order has been written and signed by the contractor and the City
Manager, upon authority of the Council.  The Clerk shall attach to the original
contract a copy of the signed agreement and certify the proceedings authorizing
the alteration.
Section 13.4  Limitation on Leasing of City Property
   Any lease of City property made by the Council for a period longer than five
years shall be subject to referendum in the manner provided in Section 7.11 of
the Charter relating to calling a referendum on ordinances.  A petition calling
for a referendum on a lease under this provision must be taken within 30 days
from the date of the lease.  If a proper petition has not been filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days from the date of the lease, the lease shall be
valid and binding.  Before the Council grants a lease, the lessee shall file an
unconditional acceptance of the terms of the lease with the Clerk-Treasurer.
Section 13.5  Franchises
   A franchise which is not revocable at the will of the Council shall not be
granted or become operative until it has been referred to and approved by
three-fifths of the electors in an election.  All irrevocable public utility
franchises and all renewals, extensions and amendments thereof shall be granted
only by ordinance.  The Council shall not refer such an ordinance to the
electorate until the application has been on file for 30 days and until a
public hearing on it has been held.  The ordinance shall not be submitted to an
election to be held less than 30 days after the grantee named therein has filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer an unconditional acceptance of all the terms of the
franchise and unless the expense of holding the election has been paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer by the grantee.  The City shall not grant an exclusive
franchise or a franchise for a term longer than 30 years.
Section 13.6  Leases, Licenses and Franchises Remain in Effect
   All leases, licenses and franchises granted by the City and in force when
this Charter becomes law, shall remain in full force and effect until the time
for which they were respectively granted has lapsed under conditions contained
in the license or franchise granted.
Section 13.7  Control and Revocation of Franchise
   The Council shall institute all actions or proceedings as may be necessary
to prosecute a public utility company for violating its franchise, this
Charter, or City ordinances.  It may revoke, cancel, or annul all franchises
the City has granted which have become inoperative, illegal, or void and not
binding upon the City.
Section 13.8  Conditions of Public Utility Franchise
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this Charter,
whether provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to the
following rights of the City.  However, this enumeration is not to be construed
as being exclusive or as impairing the right of the Council to insert in such
franchises any provision as the City may impose or require.
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, or non-use, or for failure to comply
with the provisions of the franchise.
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant, service, and
maintenance at the highest practicable standard of efficiency.
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates.
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public, in
accordance with the terms of the franchise, throughout the entire period
thereof.
   (e)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the Council
to be conducive to the safety, welfare, and accommodation of the public.
Section 13.9  Regulations of Rates
   All public utility franchises shall make provisions, as permitted by state
law, for fixing and periodically adjusting rates, fares, and charges at the
discretion of the City. 
Section 13.10  Use of Street by Utility
   Every public utility franchise shall be subject to the right of the City to
use, control, and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges, and public
places and the space above and beneath them.  Every public utility shall pay
such part of the cost of improving or maintaining streets, alleys, bridges, and
public places as shall arise from its use thereof, and shall protect and hold
the City harmless from all damages arising from said use.  The City may require
every franchise to permit joint use of its property and appurtenances located
in the streets, alleys, and public places by the City and by other utilities
insofar as such joint use may be reasonably practicable.  Upon payment of
reasonable rental application by any public utility, the Council shall
determine the terms and conditions of joint use and the compensation to be
paid.  The City award shall be final.
CHAPTER XIV. CITY PLANNING BOARD
Section 14.1  Planning Board Organization
   The Planning Board shall consist of 9 persons.  The Council shall appoint
members in accordance with the provisions of Section 14.2.  The Council may
establish the compensation on a per meeting basis for members of the Planning
Board.  The members of the Planning Board serving at the time this Charter
becomes effective shall continue to serve until their terms expire.  The City
Manager or a designated alternate shall be an ex-officio member of the Planning
Board without vote and shall attend all meetings of the Planning Board.
Section 14.2  Term of Office
   Terms of office for Planning Board members shall begin on the first Monday
in May and continue for three years.  The terms shall be staggered so that not
more than three terms expire each year.  Whenever a position on the Plan Board
becomes vacant, the Mayor and Councilors shall proceed to fill the position in
accordance with Section 3.6(e) of this Charter.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall
publicize all vacancies and solicit applicants through the municipal newsletter
if one is published, public notices, and other means prior to a person’s being
nominated to fill such a vacancy.
Section 14.3  Organization and Officers
   At the first meeting in May each year, the Planning Board shall select one
of its members to be chairperson.  The Clerk-Treasurer, or other person
designated by the City Manager, shall serve as secretary of the Board.  No
person shall serve as chairperson for more than two consecutive years.
Section 14.4  Responsibilities and Duties
   The Planning Board shall exercise the responsibilities and duties provided
in the City and Village Planning Act and other State statutes or those duties
assigned by ordinance or by this Charter.  Such duties shall include preparing
and revising a master plan for the City, making surveys, recommending zoning
changes to the Council in accordance with the zoning ordinance, and advising
the Council with respect to municipal improvements.  The Planning Board shall
make reports and recommendations to the Council on other matters, as the
Council considers appropriate.
Section 14.5  Meetings
   The Planning Board shall meet in regular session at least once each month. 
It shall adopt rules of procedures for transacting its business and keep a
record of all its meetings.
Section 14.6  Removal from Office
   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, may remove any member of the
Planning Board for misconduct or neglect of duty.  The Mayor and Council shall
remove from office any member of the Planning Board who is absent from three
consecutive meetings, unless the Planning Board excuses the absence and enters
the reasons for absences in the Board’s official minutes.
CHAPTER XV.  CEMETERY BOARD
Section 15.1  City Cemetery
   The City may own and operate public burial places, either in or outside the
City, as the Council considers necessary for the public welfare and convenience
of residents of the City.  The Council may prohibit or restrict the interment
of the dead within the City and order any bodies buried in violation of a City
ordinance to be taken up and buried elsewhere.
Section 15.2  Cemetery Lands
   All cemeteries now owned or hereafter acquired by the City, either within or
without the corporate limits, shall be dedicated forever solely to cemetery
purposes. All grants or dedications heretofore made to or for cemeteries shall
continue without change.
Section 15.3  Board of Cemetery Trustees
   Whenever the City owns and operates a cemetery, the Council may establish a
Board of Cemetery Trustees, which shall consist of five members.  If the
Council establishes a Board of Cemetery Trustees, the Council shall appoint one
person to the Cemetery Board each year unless it is also necessary to appoint
persons to fill vacancies.  Members of the Board serve without compensation. 
The City Manager, or a designated staffperson, shall be an ex-officio member
and attend all meetings of the Board.
Section 15.4  Appropriation for Cemetery
   The Council, within the limitations of this Charter, may appropriate money
necessary to purchase and operate cemetery grounds.  Each year, at the request
of the City Manager, the Cemetery Board, if established, shall present to the
City Manager its estimate of revenues to be generated for operation and
maintenance and the amount of money required during the next year to maintain
and operate the properties under the jurisdiction of the Cemetery Board.
Section 15.5  Term of Office
   The term of office of Cemetery Trustees, beginning on the first Monday in
May, shall be three years.  Whenever a position on the Cemetery Board becomes
vacant, the Mayor and Councilors shall proceed to fill the position in
accordance with Section 3.6(e) of this Charter.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall
publicize all vacancies and solicit applicants through both public notices and
newspaper advertisements or in  a municipal newsletter if one is published and
distributed throughout the city during a period prior to a person’s being
nominated to fill such a vacancy.
Section 15.6  Removal from Office
   The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, may remove any member of the
Cemetery Board for misconduct or neglect of duty.  The Mayor and Council shall
remove from office any member of the Cemetery Board who is absent from three
consecutive meetings, unless the Cemetery Board excuses the absences and enters
the reasons for absences in its official minutes.
Section 15.7  Organization and Officers
   On the first meeting in May or thereafter each year, the Cemetery Board, if
established, shall elect one of its members to be chairperson.  In addition,
the Cemetery Board shall select other officers, as the bylaws of the board
require.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall be secretary of the Board.  No member shall
serve as chairperson for more than two consecutive years.
Section 15.8  Cemetery Management
   The Cemetery Board, subject to the direction and ordinances of the Council,
is responsible for the care, operation, and management of all City burial
places.  The Cemetery Board may receive and hold any property that may be
granted, transferred, or devised to the Board in trust for the purpose of
caring for any lots specified in a trust.  The Board shall determine the price
of burial rights in lots and oversee their sale.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall
execute the conveyances of cemetery lots for the City and record them at the
purchasers’ expense.  The Clerk’s office shall be the location for records of
cemetery plats, lot numbers, and other cemetery records.
Section 15.9  Perpetual Care Funds
   The Cemetery Board, if established, shall place one-half of the revenues
resulting from the sale of cemetery burial rights into a Perpetual Care Fund as
a trust fund.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall faithfully invest the principal of the
Perpetual Care Fund in accordance with the City investment ordinance.  All
interest earned from the investment of money in the Perpetual Care Fund shall
be used exclusively for the care and maintenance of Cemetery lots entitled to
perpetual care.
Section 15.10  Cemetery Ordinance Enforcement
   The Cemetery Board, if established, shall take all necessary actions,
consistent with City ordinances, this Charter, and State law, to enforce the
ordinances of the City relating to the care and management of City cemeteries,
provide for the burial of the dead, the care and protection of the grounds,
monuments and appurtenances of the cemetery, and the orderly conduct of persons
visiting the grounds.
Section 15.11  Cemetery Moneys to be Paid to City Treasurer
   All revenues received, for City public burial places shall be paid into the
City treasury and, except for revenues designated in Subsection 15.9 as
Perpetual Care Fund, revenues shall be credited to the Cemetery Fund as special
operating revenues.  These funds shall be used for no purpose other than
cemetery operation and management. 
Section 15.12  Financial Self-sustainability
   Annually, the Cemetery Board, if established, shall report to the Council on
its finances, activities, and programs.  The Cemetery Board shall also include
with the report its plan of action and policy to enable the cemetery operations
and maintenance to be financially sustainable from income generated from sales
of burial sites, grave opening, and other fees.  When the Council has approved
such multi-year plan, the Cemetery Board shall report annually its progress
toward achieving the goal of financial sustainability.
Section 15.13  Meetings
   The Cemetery Board, if established, shall meet at least six times each year.
CHAPTER XVI. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 16.1  No Estoppel by Presentation
   No official of the City has authority to make any representation or recital
of fact in any franchise, contract, document, or agreement contrary to any
public record of the City.  Any such representation shall be void and of no
effect as against the City.
Section 16.2  Records to be Public
   Records of the City shall be available for inspection in accordance with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act of Michigan.
Section 16.3  Compliance with the Open Meetings Act
   The Council and all other boards or commissions established in this charter
or by ordinance or resolution of the Council shall conduct their meetings in
compliance with the provisions of the Michigan Open Meetings Act.
Section 16.4  Tense
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context, all
words used in this Charter indicating the present tense shall be limited to the
time of the adoption of this Charter, but shall extend to and include the time
of the happening of any event or requirement for which provision is made
herein, either as a power, immunity, requirement or prohibition.
Section 16.5  Headings
   The chapter and section headings used in this Charter are for convenience
only and are not to be considered as part of this Charter.
Section 16.6  Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof, of this Charter be held
by a court to be invalid, illegal, or unconstitutional, such holding shall not
be construed as affecting the validity of this Charter as a whole or of any
remaining portion of such provisions or section.  It is hereby declared to be
the intent of the Charter Commission and of the electors who voted on this
Charter that such unconstitutionality or illegality shall affect only the
validity of that part specifically affected by the holdings.
Section 16.7  Weekends and Holidays
   Whenever a date referred to in this Charter or by ordinance for doing or
completing an act falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the act shall
be done or completed on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday.
CHAPTER XVII. SCHEDULE
Section 17.1  Election to Adopt this Charter
   This Charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
City at a special municipal election to be held on Tuesday, August 8, 2000. 
This election shall be conducted under the provisions of the existing Charter
by the officers responsible for conducting and supervising elections, following
election procedures provided by law.
Section 17.2  Form of Ballot
   The form of the ballot for the submission of this Charter shall be as
follows:
   “Shall the city charter proposed by the city charter commission be adopted?”
Instructions:  A crossmark in the square before the word “Yes” is a vote in
favor of the proposed Charter, and a crossmark in the square before the word
“No” is a vote against the proposed Charter.
         [ ]   Yes
         [ ]   No
Section 17.3  Effective Date of This Charter
   For all purposes not otherwise provided for in this Charter, this Charter
shall take effect on January 1, 2001.
Section 17.4  Continuation in Office
   The Mayor and members of the Council existing on the effective date of this
Charter shall continue in office as provided for elsewhere in this Charter. 
All appointed officers and employees of the City shall continue in their
respective offices and employment as though they had been appointed or employed
in the manner provided in this Charter and shall, in all respects, be subject
to the provisions of this Charter.
Section 17.5  First Election Under this Charter
   The Council shall call a Special Municipal Election to be held on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2002 to elect a person to the office
of Mayor and two persons to the office of Councilor. The persons elected shall
serve a term beginning at noon on January 1, 2003 and expiring at noon of
January 1, 2004.
   Persons elected to the offices of Mayor and Councilor in the first General
Municipal Election held in accordance with Section 4.5 of this Charter in
November 2003 will assume office at 12:00 noon on January 1, 2004. The term of
the person elected to the office Mayor in this election expires on January 1,
2006 and the terms of the persons elected to the office of Councilor in this
election expire on January 1, 2008.
   The Council shall also call a Special Municipal Election to be held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2004 elect two persons to the
office of Councilor. The persons elected shall serve a term beginning at noon
on January 1, 2005 and expiring at noon on January 1, 2006.
   Thereafter the City shall conduct the General Municipal Election as provided
in Section 4.5
Section 17.6  Statute of Schedule Chapter
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government of the
City under this Chapter and shall constitute a part of this Charter only to the
extent and for the time required to accomplish this end.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION BY
THE CHARTER COMMISSION OF THE  CITY OF READING, MICHIGAN
At a special meeting of the Charter Revision Commission of the City of Reading
held on the 12th day of July, 2000 the following resolution was offered by
Charter Revision Commission of the City of Reading.
RESOLVED, that the Charter Revision Commission of the City of Reading hereby
adopts the foregoing proposed Charter for the City of Reading, and approves the
Charter for publication in the newsletter of the City of Reading and submission
to the voters of the City for their consideration. The Clerk of this Commission
is directed (1) to transmit four copies of this Charter to the Office of the
Attorney General of the State of Michigan for approval in accordance with the
statutes of the state, and (2) to this day file with the City Clerk - Treasurer
a copy of this Charter.
   The resolution was adopted:
   The Chairperson declared the foregoing resolution carried and requested the
members of the Charter Revision Council to authenticate said resolution and
also the copies of the Charter to be presented to the Governor and filed with
the Clerk - Treasurer by signing this Charter.
   _____________________      ______________________         
   Randy Blythe, Chairman                 Betty Cook
   _____________________      ______________________         
   Judith Cornish                  Dennis Dubendorf
   _____________________      ______________________
   William Heinowski                   Christine Gollnick
   _____________________     ______________________
   Cathy Piper                      Tamera Sylvester
   _____________________    ______________________
   Lila Rubel               Kimberly Blythe, Secretary
 
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code of ordinances shall constitute and be designated as the Reading
City Code (code).
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Reading, Michigan.
      CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of Reading.
      CODE.  The city code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Hillsdale, Michigan.
      JUVENILE.  Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR.  A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by
this code or any ordinance of the city, but which is not a crime under this
code or any other ordinance of the city, and for which civil sanctions,
including without limitation fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Chapter 87, as amended. A
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of any criminal
offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE.  Whenever any OFFICER,
DEPARTMENT, BOARD or other public agency is referred to by title only, such
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of
Reading, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the city is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to such OFFICER shall mean and include such officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES.  The ORDINANCES of the city and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON.  Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association,
or corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE.  The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
§ 10.03  SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of such sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or
division.
§ 10.04  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code.
   (B)   The following ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. Such
ordinances are on file in the City Clerk Treasurer’s office:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city’s
indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the city;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the City Council;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like any street or public way in the city;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the city;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the city;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
city officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
§ 10.05  CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of such ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by such adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Reading City Code is
hereby amended to read as follows: [. . .].” The new provisions shall then be
set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Reading City Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section reads as
follows: [. . .].” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this section,” “this division,” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections _____  to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise by sate law or city ordinance, all
violations of this code are misdemeanors. Except as otherwise provided by law
or ordinance, a person convicted  of a violation of this code that is a
misdemeanor shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment for a period of not more than 90 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. However, unless otherwise provided by law, a
person convicted of a violation of this code which substantially corresponds to
a violation of state law that is a misdemeanor for which the maximum period of
imprisonment is 93 days, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and
costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment for period of not more than 93 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each act of violation and every day upon
which such violation shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any section of this code, whether or not such
penalty is re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Assistant Chief of Police
   
30.01   Appointment
   
30.02   Duties
   
30.03   Powers and responsibilities
   
30.04   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see Charter
Chapters III,
VI
   Civil violations, see Charter
Chapter VII
   Cemetery Board, see Charter
Chapter XV
   Planning Board, see Charter
Chapter XIV
   Mayor, Mayor Pro-Tempore, City Manager, Clerk-Treasurer, Attorney, Assessor,
see Charter
Chapter III
   Nuisance and hazard abatement, see
Chapter 91
   Parking and Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 73
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 30.01  APPOINTMENT.
   Subject to the approval of Council, the Chief of Police may appoint an
Assistant Chief of Police to serve at the sole discretion of the Chief of
Police at a salary to be designated by the Council.
(1990 Code, § 3.001)  (Ord. 43, passed 1-13-1981)
§ 30.02  DUTIES.
   The Assistant Chief so appointed shall perform such duties as are prescribed
for him or her by the Chief of Police.
(1990 Code, § 3.002)  (Ord. 43, passed 1-13-1981)
§ 30.03  POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In the absence of the Chief of Police, the Assistant Chief shall have all
the powers and responsibilities of the Chief except as the same may be from
time to time limited by the Chief or by the Council.
(1990 Code, § 3.003)  (Ord. 43, passed 1-13-1981)
§ 30.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on January 29, 1981, following
publication pursuant to Charter.
(1990 Code, Part 3)  (Ord. 43, passed 1-13-1981)
CHAPTER 31:  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
31.01   Authority of Council
   
31.02   Improvements designated
   
31.03   Assessment procedure for improvement project
   
31.04   Determination of necessity; notice; hearing
   
31.05   Hearing procedure
   
31.06   Assessment determination; installments and interest
   
31.07   Assessment roll
   
31.08   Form of assessment report
   
31.09   Assessment notice
   
31.10   Servicing of notice
   
31.11   Review of assessment
   
31.12   Notice of contesting or enjoining action
   
31.13   Assessments as lien; exception
   
31.14   Provisions for excess or insufficient assessments
   
31.15   Tax on land
   
31.16   Lands divided after assessment
   
31.17   Assessment collection
   
31.18   Nonpayment; auction of personal property
   
31.19   Delinquent assessments or installments
   
31.20   Contesting or enjoining action; restriction
   
31.21   Lien not destroyed by judgment, decree or act
   
31.22   Return of assessment roll and warrant to City Clerk; unpaid assessments
   
31.23   Warrant renewal
   
31.24   Recovery of judgment
   
31.25   Irregularities
   
31.26   Petition for construction or improvements payable through special
assessments
   
31.27   Payment by installment; notice
   
31.28   Additional costs
§ 31.01  AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter XI of the Charter, the Council shall have the power to determine that
the whole or any part of the expenses of any public improvement, including
public parking facilities and boulevard lighting systems, shall be defrayed by
special assessments upon the property specially benefitted, in portion to the
benefits derived or to be derived from such improvements; and to determine what
proportion of the cost thereof shall be paid by special assessment, and what
part, if any, shall be a general obligation of the city; the number of
installments in which assessments may be paid; and to designate the districts
or land and premises upon which special assessments shall be levied.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.02  IMPROVEMENTS DESIGNATED.
   The cost and expense of public improvements, including, but not limited to,
waterworks, sanitary and storm sewer systems, sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
parking facilities, lighting systems, as well as the construction and/or
improvement of other public facilities, systems or structures as might be
designated by Council, maybe met by special assessment upon the lands
benefitted thereby.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.03  ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE FOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
   When the owners of the majority of the land liable to be assessed in any
special assessment district, then or thereafter to be constituted, shall
petition the Council for any of the public improvements, the Council shall
direct that plans, specifications and estimates of cost be made by City
Engineer and submitted to the Council on or before a date to be designated not
exceeding 90 days following the presentation of the petition to the Council. In
the alternative, the Council may on its own motion direct that plans,
specifications and estimates of cost be made by the City Engineer and submitted
to the Council on or before a date to be designated by it not exceeding 90 days
from the date upon which such motion is made. Upon receiving the plans,
specifications and the estimated cost of proposed improvements, the Council
shall determine whether such public improvements shall be made, and whether the
whole or any part of the cost and expense thereof shall be specially assessed
against the lands benefitting or to be benefit therefrom, and what part, if
any, shall be appropriated from the general funds of the city, and determine
the district or lands and premises upon which a special assessment shall be
levied.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.04  DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY; NOTICE; HEARING.
   Before ordering any public improvements, any part of the expense of which is
to be defrayed by special assessment, the Council shall determine by resolution
of the necessity and propriety thereof and shall file such resolution with the
plans and specifications, estimate of costs and a description of the lands or
districts to be affected with the City Clerk for public examination. In the
same resolution, Council shall direct that notice thereof be given by
publication once at least five days prior stating the time and place when
Council will meet and consider any objections thereto. Notice shall be given as
required by Public Act No. 162 of 1962 (M.C.L.A. §§ 211.741 et seq., as
amended).
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.05  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   On the date set forth in the notice required by the preceding section, if
more than 50% of the number of owners of privately owned property to be
assessed for such improvement shall object in writing to the proposed
improvement, the improvement shall not be made without the affirmative vote of
five of the members of Council. This restriction shall not apply to sidewalks,
or the abatement of hazards and nuisances. If upon such hearing no objections
shall be made, or if the Council shall by the affirmative vote required by the
provisions of this section determine to make such improvement and to defray the
cost or part thereof by special assessment, they shall so determine by
resolution, and shall therein determine the percentage of the whole amount of
the cost of such improvement which shall be levied by special assessment upon
the lands comprising such special assessment district. In no case shall the
whole amount to be levied by special assessment upon any lot or premises for
any improvement exceed 25% of the value of such lot or land as valued and
assessed for state and county taxation in the last preceding ward tax roll. Any
cost exceeding that percentage which would otherwise be chargeable on such lot
or premises shall be paid from the general funds of the city.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.06  ASSESSMENT DETERMINATION; INSTALLMENTS AND INTEREST.
   In the same resolution provided for in the preceding section, the Council
shall determine whether such special assessment is to be made pro rate upon the
lots and premises in such special assessment district, according to frontage,
or benefits, and shall determine whether such special assessment may be divided
into installments and the interest rate to be charged upon the deferred balance
from time to time unpaid, provided, however, that such special assessments
shall not be divided into more than 15 successive annual installments and the
interest charged shall not exceed 6% per year upon the deferred balance, and
that the special assessments or installments thereof maybe paid in advance,
with interest only to the date of payment. The Council shall by such resolution
direct that such special assessment shall be made as provided by the resolution
by the City Assessor.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.07  ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon receiving such resolution, order and directions, the City Assessor
shall make out an assessment roll, entering and describing therein all the
lots, premises and parcels of land to be assessed, with the names of the
persons, if known, chargeable with the assessments thereon; and shall levy
thereon and against such persons the amount to be assessed in the manner
directed by the Council. If the several descriptions to be assessed in any
special assessment district extend into more than one ward of the city, the
City Assessor shall enter the several descriptions situated in any one ward by
themselves, separate from those of others, in all cases where the ownership of
any description is unknown to the city assessor, he or she shall insert in
place of the name of the owner of the "unknown". If by mistake or otherwise any
person shall be improperly designated as the owner of any lot, parcel of land
or premises, of if the same shall be assessed without the name of the owner or
in the name of a person other than the owner, such assessment shall to be void,
but shall in all respects be as valid upon and against such lot, parcel or
land, or premise as though assessed in the name of the proper owner; and when
the assessment roll shall have been confirmed, shall be a lien on such lot,
parcel of land, or premises, and shall be collected as in other cases. If the
assessment is directed to be made according to frontage, the City Assessor
shall assess to each lot or parcel of land such relative portion of the whole
amount to be levied as the length of front of such premises abutting upon the
improvement bears to the whole frontage of all the lots to be assessed, unless
on account of the shape or size of any lot, an assessment for a different
number of feet would be equitable. If the assessment is directed to be made
according to benefits, the City Assessor shall assess upon each lot such
relative portion of the whole sum to be levied as shall be proportionate to the
estimated benefit resulting to such lot from the improvement.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.08  FORM OF ASSESSMENT REPORT.
   When the City Assessor has completed the assignment, he or she shall report
the same to the Council in the following form:
   STATE OF MICHIGAN
   County of Hillsdale
   TO THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF READING
   I hereby certify and report that the forgoing is the special assessment
roll, and the assessment made by me pursuant to a Resolution, of the Council of
the City adopted on        (give)              date for the purpose of paying
that part of the cost which the Council decided should be paid and borne by
special assessment for the (insert object of assessment) that in making such
assessment I have, as near as maybe, and according to my best judgment,
conformed in all things to the direction contained in the Resolution of the
Council herein referred to, and the Charter of the City relating to special
assessment.
   Date
                                                    
                                                    
   City Council
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.09  ASSESSMENT NOTICE.
   Upon receiving the report mentioned in the preceding section, from the City
Assessor, the Council shall cause the same and the whole thereof to be filed in
the office of the City Clerk and shall direct that notice of the filing of such
special assessment report shall be given by publication once at least five days
prior stating the time and place when Council will meet and consider any
objections thereto, Notice shall also be given as required by Public Act No.
162 or 1962 (M.C.L.A. 211.741 et seq., as amended) and appointing a time when
the Council and the City Assessor will meet to review such assessment. Any
person objecting to the assessment may file his or her objection thereto in
writing with the City Clerk. The notice must be addressed to the persons whose
names appear upon the special assessment roll, and to all others interested
therein, and may be in the following form.
   NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
   To (insert the names of the persons against whom the assessment appears),
and to all other persons interested, take notice: That the roll of the special
assessment theretofore made by the City Assessor for the purpose of defraying
that part of the cost which the Council decided should be paid and borne by
special assessment for the (insert the object of the assessment and the
locality of the proposed improvement in general terms) is now on file in my
office for public inspection.
   Notice is also hereby given that the Council and City Assessor of the City
of Reading will meet at the Council Room in said City on (insert the date fixed
upon) to review said assessment, at which time and place opportunity will be
given all persons interested to be heard.
   City Clerk
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.10  SERVICING OF NOTICE.
   Notice regarding the construction of improvement of waterworks, sanitary and
storm sewer systems, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, streets, parking facilities,
boulevard lighting system, as well as the construction and/or improvement of
other public facilities, systems or structures as might be designated by
Council or otherwise regarding sidewalk repairs sewer or water reconnections,
dangerous structures, abating nuisances or any other act, the expense of which,
if performed by the city, maybe assessed against the premises under the
provisions of the City Ordinances, shall be served as required by Public Act
No. 162 of 1962 (M.C.L.A. 211.741 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.11  REVIEW OF ASSESSMENT.
   At the time and place appointed for the purpose as set forth in this
section, the Council and the City Assessor shall meet and there, or at some
adjourned meeting, review the assessment and shall hear any objections to any
assessment which may be made any person deeming himself or herself aggrieved,
and the Council may correct the roll as to any assessment, or description of
premises, appearing therein, and may confirm it as reported or as corrected; or
they may refer the assessment back to the City Assessor for revision; or annul
it and direct a new assessment, in which case the same proceedings shall be had
as in respect to the previous assessment. When a special assessment shall be
confirmed, the City Clerk shall make an endorsement upon the roll showing the
date of conformation. When any special assessment shall be confirmed by the
Council, it shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.12  NOTICE OF CONTESTING OR ENJOINING ACTION.
   Notice of intention to file an action for the purpose of contesting or
enjoining the collection of any special assessment shall be given to the City
Council within 30 days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll
stating the grounds on which it is claimed that the assessment is illegal.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.13  ASSESSMENTS AS LIEN; EXCEPTION.
   All special assessments, shall from the date of confirmation thereof,
constitute a lien upon the respective lots or parcels of land assessed, and
shall be charged against the person to who assessed until paid. All special
assessments, except such installments thereof as the Council shall make payable
at a future time as provided in this division, shall be due and payable upon
confirmation, if any special assessment is divided into installments, a special
assessment roll shall be made for each installment as the same shall become
due, with the accrued interest upon all unpaid installments included and
assessed therein.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.14  PROVISIONS FOR EXCESS OR INSUFFICIENT ASSESSMENTS.
   Should any special assessment prove insufficient for the improvement or work
for which it was levied, and the expenses incident thereto, the Council may,
within the limitations prescribed for such assessments, make an additional pro
rata assessment to supply the deficiency, and in case a larger amount shall
have been collected than was necessary, the excess shall be refunded ratably to
those by whom it was paid; provided, however, that total assessment may not
exceed the value of benefits received by the lot or parcel of land against
which it is assessed; provided further, that if such special assessment is not
exceeding 5% greater than necessary for the improvement, such excess not
exceeding 5% shall be deposited in the City Treasury as part of the general
funds of the city; but should the assessment exceed the amount necessary by
over 5%, then the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro rata basis as
provided in this section. No refund of special assessments maybe made which
impairs or contravenes the provisions of any outstanding obligation or bonds
secured in whole or in part by special assessment. In lieu of making refunds,
such excess of assessment may be allotted as a credit on the last installment
of the assessment.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.15  TAX ON LAND.
   Whenever any special assessment shall be confirmed and be payable, the
Council may direct the City Clerk to report to the City Assessor a description
of such lots and premises as are contained in the special assessment roll with
the amount of the assessment levied upon each and the name of the owner or
occupant against whom the assessment is made, and direct the City Assessor to
levy the several sums so assessed respectively. The City Assessor shall levy
the sums therein mentioned upon the respective lots to which they are specially
assessed and against the persons chargeable therewith as a tax roll annexed
thereafter to be made in a column for special assessments, and thereupon the
amounts so levied in the tax roll shall be enforced and collected with the
other taxes in the tax roll, and in the same manner, and shall continue to be a
lien upon the premises assessed until paid, and, when collected, shall be paid
into the City Treasury.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.16  LANDS DIVIDED AFTER ASSESSMENT.
   Should any lots or land be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divide into installments, and before the collection of all
installments, the Council may require the City Assessor to apportion the
uncollected amounts upon the several parts of lots and land so divided. The
report of such a portion, when confirmed, shall be conclusive upon all parties
and all assessments thereafter made upon such lots or lands shall be according
to such divisions.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.17  ASSESSMENT COLLECTION.
   Whenever any special assessment rolls shall be confirmed, the Council,
instead of requiring the assessments therein to be reported to the City
Assessor as provided in the preceding section, may direct the assessment so
made in the special assessment roll to be collected directly from the special
assessment roll, together with any interest which may become due thereon, and,
thereupon, the City Clerk shall attach his or her warrant to a certified copies
of the special assessment roll, therein commanding the City Treasurer to
collect from each of the persons assessed in the roll the amount of money
assessed to and set opposite his or her name therein; and in case any person
named in the roll shall neglect or refuse to pay his or her assessment upon
demand, then to levy and collect the same by distress and sale of the goods and
chattels of such person and return the roll and warrant, together with his or
her doings thereon, within 60 days from the date of the warrant.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.18  NONPAYMENT; AUCTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Upon receiving the assessment roll and warrant, the City Treasurer shall
proceed to collect the amounts assessed therein. If any person shall neglect or
refuse to pay his or her assessment upon demand, the Treasurer shall seize and
levy upon any personal property found within the city, or elsewhere within the
county, belonging to such person, and sell the same at public auction, first
giving six days' notice of the time and place of such sale, by posting such
notices in three of the most public places in the city or township where such
property may be found. The proceeds of such sale, or so much thereof as may be
necessary for the purpose, shall be applied to the payment of the assessment,
and 5% of the amount of the assessment for the costs and expenses of the
seizure and sale, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the person entitled
thereto.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.19  DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS OR INSTALLMENTS.
   Special assessments and all interest and charges thereon, from the date of
confirmation of the roll, shall be and remain a lien upon the property assessed
of the same charter and effect as the lien created by general law for state and
county taxes, and by the Charter for the city taxes, until paid. From such date
and after confirmation as shall be fixed by the Council, the same collection
fees shall be collected in delinquent special assessments and upon delinquent
installments of such special assessments beginning on the following September 1
of each year as are provided by the Charter to be collected on delinquent city
taxes. Such delinquent special assessments shall be subject to the same
penalties, and the land upon which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale
therefore, the same as are delinquent city taxes collection in accordance with
the city charter and the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.20  CONTESTING OR ENJOINING ACTION; RESTRICTION.
   An action of any kind shall not be instated for the purpose of contesting or
enjoining the collection of any special assessment unless within 30 days after
the confirmation of the special assessment roll, written notice is given to the
Council indicating an intention to file each an action and stating the grounds
on which it is claimed that the assessment is illegal. Further, whether or not
any public improvement is completed in any special assessment district, no
owner of real property located in such district shall be entitled to commence
any suit or action for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of
any such special assessment after he or she has received a benefit from the
substantial completion of that portion of such public improvement for which he
or she is assessed.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.21  LIEN NOT DESTROYED BY JUDGMENT, DECREE OR ACT.
   No judgment or decree, or any act of the Council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the premises
assessed, for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against
the same, or as by a regular vote or proceeding might have been lawfully
assessed thereon.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.22  RETURN OF ASSESSMENT ROLL AND WARRANT TO CITY CLERK; UNPAID
ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall make return of the assessment roll and warrant to the
City Clerk according to the requirements of the warrant, and if any of the
assessments in the roll are returned unpaid, the Treasurer shall attach to his
or her return a statement, verified by affidavit containing a list of the
persons delinquent, and a description of the lots and premises upon which the
assessments remain unpaid, and the amount unpaid on each.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.23  WARRANT RENEWAL.
   The warrant may be renewed from time to time by the City Clerk, if the
Council shall so direct, and for such time as they shall determine, and during
the time of such renewal the warrant shall have the same force, and the City
Treasurer shall perform the same duties and make the like returns, as provided
in this division.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.24  RECOVERY OF JUDGEMENT.
   At any time after a special assessment has become payable, the same may be
collected by suit, in the name of the city, against the person assessed, in an
action of assumpsit in any court having jurisdiction of the amount, in every
such action, a declaration upon the common count for money paid shall be
sufficient. The special assessment roll and a certified order or resolution
confirming the same shall be prima facie evidence of the regularity of all the
proceedings in making the assessment, and of the right of the city to recover
judgment therefore.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.25  IRREGULARITIES.
   If in any such action it appears that by reason of any irregularities or
informalities the assessment has not been properly made against the defendant
or upon the lot or premises sought to be charged, the court may nevertheless,
on satisfactory proof that expense has been incurred by the city, which is
proper charge against the defendant or that lot or premises in question, render
judgment for the amount properly chargeable against such defendant or upon such
lot or premises.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.26  PETITION FOR CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVEMENTS PAYABLE THROUGH SPECIAL
ASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever the owners of lots, pieces or parcels of land shall petition for
any construction or improvements mentioned in § 31.02 of this chapter, the cost
and expenses of any construction or improvements projects as might be proposed
in such petition which are accepted and agree upon by the city shall be
assessed against the properties benefitted thereby in accordance with the
provisions of this division in like manner as though originally initiated by
the Council on its own motion. Any such petition as is submitted for
consideration under this section shall contain and set forth.
   (A)   The complete legal description of each lot, piece or parcel of land
proposed for inclusion in the special assessment district;
   (B)   The assessed valuation for each such lot, piece or parcel of land;
   (C)   The complete name and address of each owner, land contract vendor,
land contract vendee,  mortgagor, mortgagee and any other parties in interest,
together with the complete names of their respective spouses, as the case might
be;
   (D)   The signature of each party disclosed under division (C) of this
section. The Council shall provide forms of petitions to be used under this
section.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.27  PAYMENT BY INSTALLMENT; NOTICE.
   Whenever special assessments are made under any of the provisions of this
division payable in future annual installments, the Council shall cause a
notice of such special assessments and of the amounts and the years in which
they shall become due, to be recorded in the office of the County Register of
Deeds as public notice of the existence of such special assessments which may
be a lien upon the several parcels of real estate affected. Whenever such
special assessments shall have been fully paid, the Council shall cause a
release or discharge to be filed of the fact of such discharge.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
§ 31.28  ADDITIONAL COSTS.
   The cost of making surveys, preparing estimates and plans, advertising
public notices of hearings, and any ordinary or extraordinary expenses relating
to such special assessment is declared to be a part of the improvement.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 9-10-2013)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   CITY SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
Section
Water, Sewer, and Garbage Rates and Charges
   
50.01   Lien as security for collection of rates and charges; tenant
responsibility
   
50.02   Notice of pendency of lien
   
50.03   Delinquent charges
   
50.04   Discontinuing service; suit for collection of charges
   
50.05   Restoration of service
   
50.06   Construction of subchapter
   
50.07   Effective date
Water Tap Rates
   
50.20   Tap rates
   
50.21   Commencement of service
   
50.22   Repeal
Water Use Charges
   
50.35   Use charges
   
50.36   Special rates
   
50.37   Repeal
   
50.38   Effective date
WATER, SEWER, AND GARBAGE RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.01  LIEN AS SECURITY FOR COLLECTION OF RATES AND CHARGES; TENANT
RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall have, as security for the collection of any water, sewage,
and garbage rates, or any assessments, charges, or rentals due, or to become
due, for the use or consumption of water supply to any house or other building
or premises, lot or lots, parcel or parcels of land, or for charges resulting
from making sewer connections or growing out of services rendered by the city
to any property in connection with its sewer, and for garbage collection
services rendered by the city, a lien upon such house or other building and
upon the premises, or lot or lots, or parcel or parcels upon which such other
buildings shall be situated, or to which such water was supplied, sewer
connection made, or services rendered, and such garbage collected. However, in
a case when a tenant is responsible for the payment of the charges, and the
city is so notified in writing, the notice to include a true copy of the lease
of the affected premises, if there is to be one, then the charges shall not
become a lien against the premises after the date of the notice. In the event
of filing of the notice, the city shall render no further service to the
premises until a cash deposit is made as security for the payment of the
charges. Such lien shall become effective immediately upon distribution of the
water to the premises or property supplied or upon services being rendered by
the city or for making sewer connections or for collecting garbage, as
aforesaid, but shall not be enforceable for more than three years thereafter.
(1990 Code, § 80.001)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 50.02  NOTICE OF PENDENCY OF LIEN.
   The official records of the Board of Public Works of the city shall
constitute a notice of the pendency of said lien.
(1990 Code, § 80.002)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 50.03  DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   Charges which may be due the city on water bills, or for sewer connection or
services rendered in connection with sewers or the collection of garbage, are
hereby recognized to constitute a lien, and whenever such charge against any
piece of property shall be delinquent for six months, the city official or
officials in charge of collection thereof shall certify annually, on March 1 of
each year, to the tax assessing officer of the city, the fact of such
delinquency, whereupon such charge shall be by him or her entered upon the next
tax roll as a charge against such premises and shall be collected and the lien
thereof enforced in the same manner as general city taxes against such premises
are collected and the lien thereof enforced.
(1990 Code, § 80.003)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 50.04  DISCONTINUING SERVICE; SUIT FOR COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   In addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the payment of charges
for water service to any premises may be enforced by discontinuing the water
service to the premises, and the payment of charges for sewer service to any
premises may be enforced by discontinuing either the water service or the
sewage disposal service to the premises, or both; the city may further
institute suit in any court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of any
amount due either for water, sewer service, or garbage service, and no such
attempt to collect such amounts shall in any way invalidate or waive the lien
upon the premises.
(1990 Code, § 80.004)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 50.05  RESTORATION OF SERVICE.
   As a condition precedent to the restoration of water and/or sewer service to
any premises to which such service has been previously terminated, the city
shall impose and collect all existing water and/or sewer charge arrearages
inclusive of penalties and late charges, together with the sum of $20 for
service restoration.
(1990 Code, § 80.005)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 50.06  CONSTRUCTION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to affect or restrict any rights
which the city may otherwise have under the laws of the state for the
collection of water, sewer, or garbage charges.
(1990 Code, § 80.006)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
§ 50.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be February 27, 1984 following
publication.
(1990 Code, Part 80)  (Ord. 56, passed 2-14-1984)
WATER TAP RATES
§ 50.20  TAP RATES.
   The following shall be the tap rates to be charged for connection to the
water system of the city:
   (A)   For each three-fourths inch water tap, water tap rates shall be in the
amount established by resolution of the City Council, or the sum of the cost
for time and materials; and
   (B)   For each one-inch tap or larger, water tap rates shall be in the
amount established by resolution of the City Council, or the sum of the cost
for time and materials.
(1990 Code, § 81.001)  (Ord. 77, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 50.21  COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICE.
   No water service shall commence to any premises connected to the city water
system until all fees, tap rates, or charges due or required under this
subchapter are paid in full.
(1990 Code, § 81.002)  (Ord. 77, passed 3-12-1996)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.22  REPEAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions, or orders or parts thereof, in conflict with
the provisions of this subchapter, are to the extent of such conflict hereby
repealed.
(1990 Code, § 81.003)  (Ord. 77, passed 3-12-1996)
WATER USE CHARGES
§ 50.35  USE CHARGES.
   The water use charges, as amended, are not printed due to frequency of
change. The current charges are available in the office of the City Clerk
Treasurer.
(1990 Code, Part 82)  (Ord. 36, passed 9-27-1978; Ord. 40, passed 12-11-1979;
Ord. 61, passed 5-7-1985; Ord. 63, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 50.36  SPECIAL RATES.
   For miscellaneous or special services for which a special rate shall be
established, such rates shall be fixed by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 82)  (Ord. 36, passed 9-27-1978; Ord. 40, passed 12-11-1979;
Ord. 61, passed 5-7-1985; Ord. 63, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 50.37  REPEAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions, or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with
the provisions of this subchapter are to the extent of such conflict hereby
repealed.
(1990 Code, Part 82)  (Ord. 36, passed 9-27-1978)
§ 50.38  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on October 1, 1978, following
publication pursuant to Charter, it being declared an emergency ordinance and
necessary for the public peace, health, and safety.
(1990 Code, Part 82)  (Ord. 36, passed 9-27-1978)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Monthly rates
   
51.02   Due date of payment
   
51.03   Right to discontinue service
   
51.04   Repeal
   
51.05   Effective date
§ 51.01  MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   The city shall provide, by contract, for the collection of garbage
from all properties within the city. The users of garbage collection services
contracted for by the city residing in or otherwise occupying residential
property within the city, and any tenant of such owners occupying such property
or any part thereof as a residence, shall be responsible for and shall pay or
provide for the payment of an annual garbage collection rate, the same to be
paid in monthly installments. The annual garbage collection rate and the
monthly installments shall be established and provided from time to time by
Council resolution, after a public hearing to be scheduled on not less than 21
days’ notice with such notice to be published according to applicable law.
   (B)   This section, as amended, shall become effective ten days after
publication.
(1990 Code, § 86.001)  (Ord. 64, passed 3-10-1987; Ord. 83, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 51.02  DUE DATE OF PAYMENT.
   The monthly installment payment provided for herein shall be due and payable
on or before the sixteenth day of each and every month and shall be due and
payable regardless of whether actual garbage collection services are performed
within that month.
(1990 Code, § 86.002)  (Ord. 64, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 51.03  RIGHT TO DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   In addition to all other rights and remedies available to the city, under
either the City Charter, city ordinances, or the laws of the state, the city
shall have the right to discontinue garbage collection service to any premises
for which the charges established herein become delinquent. The discontinuance
of garbage collection service as a result of delinquency shall in no way
relieve the obligation to pay the annual garbage collection rate or any portion
thereof.
(1990 Code, § 86.003)  (Ord. 64, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 51.04  REPEAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions, or parts thereof, in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby
repealed.
(1990 Code, § 86.004)  (Ord. 64, passed 3-10-1987)
§ 51.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter shall be March 20, 1987, following
publication.
(1990 Code, Part 86)  (Ord. 64, passed 3-10-1987)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
Water Emergencies
   
52.01   City water supply; use
   
52.02   Effective date and duration
   
52.03   Declaration of emergency
Water Supply System Cross-Connections
   
52.15   Cross-Connection Rules adopted
   
52.16   Inspections
   
52.17   Right of access; right to information
   
52.18   Discontinuance of service
   
52.19   Protection of potable water; labeling unsafe water
   
52.20   Supplementary to State and City Plumbing Code
   
52.21   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER EMERGENCIES
§ 52.01  CITY WATER SUPPLY; USE.
   The City Council may, by resolution, regulate, limit, or prohibit the use of
city-supplied water for lawn sprinkling, filling swimming pools, washing cars,
or any other purpose deemed by the City Council to be non-essential to the
extent necessary to assure an adequate water supply for domestic and commercial
needs and fire fighting.
(1990 Code, § 83.001)  (Ord. 66, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 52.02  EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION.
   Any such regulation, limitation, or prohibition regarding the use of city-
supplied water shall become effective upon the date specified by the adopting
resolution for such time period specified therein. No such regulation,
limitation, or prohibition regarding the use of city-supplied water shall
become effective until at least 24 hours after the publication thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(1990 Code, § 83.002)  (Ord. 66, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 52.03  DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   This subchapter, being necessary to preserve the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the city, is hereby declared to be an emergency ordinance,
the same to have immediate force and effect upon publication.
(1990 Code, § 83.004)  (Ord. 66, passed 6-9-1987)
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.15  CROSS-CONNECTION RULES ADOPTED.
   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross-Connection Rules of the
State Department of Public Health, being R 325.431 to R 325.440 of the Michigan
Administrative Code.
(1990 Code, § 84.001)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 52.16  INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the city water supply system to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-
connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the city water supply system and as approved by the State
Department of Public Health.
(1990 Code, § 84.002)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17  RIGHT OF ACCESS; RIGHT TO INFORMATION.
   The representative of the city water supply system shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system
or systems thereof for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessees, or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(1990 Code, § 84.003)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 52.18  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The city water supply system is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this subchapter exists, and the city may take such
other precautionary measures as may be necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply system. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 84.004)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 52.19  PROTECTION OF POTABLE WATER; LABELING UNSAFE WATER.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the State and City Plumbing Code. Any water outlet
which would be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
   WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
(1990 Code, § 84.005)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 52.20  SUPPLEMENTARY TO STATE AND CITY PLUMBING CODE.
   This subchapter does not supercede the State Plumbing Code or any applicable
City Plumbing Code ordinances but is supplementary to them.
(1990 Code, § 84.006)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 52.21  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on March 20, 1975.
(1990 Code, § 84.008)  (Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.03 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1990 Code, § 83.003)
   (C)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of §§
52.15 through
52.21, or a written order of the city water supply system, in pursuance
thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each
violation. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose
of §§
52.15 through
52.21.
(1990 Code, § 84.007)
(Ord. 28, passed 3-3-1975; Ord. 66, passed 6-9-1987)
CHAPTER 53:  CITY SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   City sewer service
   
53.02   Unlawful discharges
   
53.03   Installation of facilities required
   
53.04   Discharge to storm sewer or natural outlet
   
53.05   Private sewage disposal
   
53.06   Building sewers and connections
   
53.07   Inspections
   
53.08   Prohibited acts
   
53.09   Rates and charges
   
53.10   Sewer use charge system
   
53.11   Commencement of services
   
53.12   Severability and conflict
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  CITY SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Purpose and policy.  The purpose of this chapter is to regulate sewers
and discharge of waste into the city publicly operated sanitary sewage system.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY.  Whenever used in this chapter, means the City of Reading,
Michigan.
      REVENUES and NET REVENUES. Whenever used in this chapter, they shall be
understood to have the meanings as defined in § 3 of Public Act 94 of 1933 as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138.
      THE SYSTEM.  Whenever referred to in this chapter, means the complete
city sanitary sewer system, including all sewers, pumps, lift stations,
treatment facilities, and all other facilities used or useful in the
collection, treatment, and disposal of domestic, commercial, or industrial
waste, including all appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and
improvements thereto which may hereafter be acquired.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.02  UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited upon public or private property within the city, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste other than in an authorized sanitary landfill.
   (B)   Except as provided in this chapter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03  INSTALLATION OF FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city is required,
at its expense, to connect suitable toilet facilities directly with the proper
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the rules and
regulations of the city sanitary sewer system, within 60 days after the date of
official notice to do so; provided, that the public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.04  DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWER OR NATURAL OUTLET.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the appropriate state agency. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, upon approval of the appropriate
state agency, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.05  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
this chapter, the building’s sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Branch-
Hillsdale District Health Department and countersigned by the City Manager or
his or her designee. The application for such a permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the Branch-Hillsdale District Health Department which the
applicants shall supplement with any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Branch-Hillsdale District Health
Department.
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Branch-Hillsdale
District Health Department and the city. The Branch-Hillsdale District Health
Department and the city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Branch-Hillsdale District Health Department when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered in accordance with
the environmental health ordinances of the county.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Branch-Hillsdale
District Health Department. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than 12,000 square feet. No tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (F)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Branch-Hillsdale
District Health Department.
   (G)   Upon termination of the use of a private sewage disposal system, such
disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run
gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.06  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover or make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   The tap application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city. A tap and inspection fee as established by resolution of the city
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination, to meet all the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, joining,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the state.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
buildings at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried from such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. No person shall pump from a drain to
the storm sewer system.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, state, or federal government. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
   (J)   Any deviation from the procedures and materials set forth in divisions
(A) through (I) of this section must be approved by the city before
installation.
   (K)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
   (L)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkway, and other public parkway disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored at the owner’s expense in a manner satisfactory
to the city.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  INSPECTIONS.
   The duly authorized employee of the city shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection and observation in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.08  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Willful destruction.  No person shall maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the city sanitary
sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Harmful contributions.  The city may suspend sanitary sewage disposal
service when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city, in order
to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
eminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment.
   (C)   Termination of service.  The city may seek to terminate the sewer
sanitation service to any user who:
      (1)   Refuses reasonable access to the user’s premises by representatives
of the city for purpose of inspection and observation; or
      (2)   Violates the conditions of this chapter, or any final judicial
order entered with respect thereto.
   (D)   Notification to stop.  Any person notified of a suspension of the
sanitary sewage disposal service shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage or endangerment to any individual or the environment.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09  RATES AND CHARGES.
   Rates to be charged for service furnished by the sanitary sewage disposal
system shall be as follows.
   (A)   Sewer use charges.  A sewer use charge to each premises served by the
system will include a commodity charge and a maintenance charge by meter size
in accordance with the following schedule which may be amended from time to
time by resolution of the City Council:
Lead Size        Charge
3/4 inch         $17.50/month
1 inch           $45.00/month
1-1/2 inch       $87.50/month
2 inch           $140.00/month
3 inch           $280.00/month
4 inch           $437.50/month
Empty lots       $10.00/month
Commodity charge $2.60 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Tap charge.  Each premises tapping into the system and securing
therefrom sewer service shall pay, in cash, at the time of application for the
tap, the sum of $1,000 or the sum of the cost for time and materials necessary
to install the tap, whichever is greater. Any change in the tap charge may
hereafter be established by resolution of the City Council. Such amounts shall
be sufficient to compensate the city for the cost of making and inspecting the
tap.
   (C)   Special rates.  Special rates shall be established by resolution of
the City Council for temporary, miscellaneous, or special services.
   (D)   Billing.  Bills will be rendered monthly at the same time as the water
bill, and penalty and payment provisions shall be the same as are established
for water billing.
   (E)   Enforcement.  Charges for services provided by the sanitary sewage
disposal system are hereby made a lien on all premises served unless written
notice is given that a tenant is responsible for such charges; and whenever any
such charges against any piece of property shall be delinquent for six months,
the city official or officials in charge of the collection thereof shall
certify annually, on March 1 of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the
city the fact of such delinquency, whereupon such charge shall be by him or her
entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against such premises and shall be
collected, and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general city
taxes against such premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced;
provided, however, where written notice is given that a tenant is responsible
for such charges as required by § 21, Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§
141.101 through 141.138, as amended, no further service shall be rendered such
premises until a cash deposit in an amount established by resolution of the
City Council shall have been made as security for payment of such charges and
services.
   (F)   Discontinuance of service.  In addition to the foregoing, the city
shall have the right to discontinue either the water service or the sewer
service, or both, to any premises for which charges for sewer services are
delinquent, and such service shall not be reestablished until all delinquent
charges and penalties, together with a reconnection fee, have been paid.
Further, such charges and penalties may be recovered by court action.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.10  SEWER USE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city sewer use charge system shall produce revenues to offset the
cost of all treatment works, operation, maintenance, and replacement. All sewer
rates shall be developed in accordance with governing state and federal
regulations. Rates shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   No free service shall be furnished by the sanitary sewage disposal
system to any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, or to any public
agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.11  COMMENCEMENT OF SERVICES.
   No sewer service shall commence to any premises connected to the city
sanitary sewage disposal system until all fees, tap rates, or charges due or
required under this chapter are paid in full.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.12  SEVERABILITY AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   Severability.  If any provision, division, words, or sections shall
not be affected and shall continue in full force and effect.
   (B)   Conflict.  All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances
inconsistent or conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed
to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating this or any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a
punishment by fine of not more than $100 and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 93, passed - -)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   STATE CODE PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
76.   SNOW REMOVAL
CHAPTER 70:  STATE CODE PROVISIONS
Section
Michigan Vehicle Code; Provisions Adopted
   
70.001   Michigan Vehicle Code Adopted by reference
   
70.002   Purpose
Uniform Traffic Code Adoption
   
70.020   Adoption of Uniform Traffic Code by reference
MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE; PROVISIONS ADOPTED
§ 70.001  MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.1 et seq., including § 625(1)(c) thereof and all future amendments and
revision to the Michigan Vehicle Code when they are effective in this state are
incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   The city shall not enforce any provision of the Michigan Vehicle Code
adopted by reference herein where a violation of the provision constitutes a
felony or where a violation of the provision constitutes a felony or where a
violation of the provision constitutes a misdemeanor with a maximum period of
imprisonment greater than 93 days, except that the city shall enforce § 625(1)
(c) of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 P.A. 300, being M.C.L.A. § 257.625,
which shall be punishable by one or more of the following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 90 days.
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
      (3)   A fine not less than $200 or more than $700.
§ 70.002  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Michigan Vehicle Code is to regulate the operation of
vehicles, to provide for the regulation and use of streets, highways, and
alleys, and other public and semipublic places within the city, and to provide
penalties for the violation of the vehicle code.
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTION
§ 70.020  ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships and villages
promulgated by the Director of State Police and published in Michigan
Administrative Code and amendments as Michigan Administrative Code 2002 M.R.20,
in accordance with Public Act No. 62 of 1956 (M.C.L.A. §§ 257.951 et seq.), is
hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   The purpose of such code is to regulate the operation of vehicles, to
provide for the regulation and use of streets, highways and alleys and other
public and semi-public places within the city, and to provide penalties for
violation of the code.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
School Buses
   
71.01   Paint; signs
   
71.02   Overtaking, meeting, or passing
   
71.03   Discharge of passengers
   
71.04   Failure to stop
   
71.05   Effective date
Vehicular Traffic Speed Limits
   
71.20   Vehicular traffic speed limits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 71.01  PAINT; SIGNS.
   School buses which transport pupils within the city shall be painted and
shall contain signs on the front and back of the school bus as approved by the
Department of Transportation and the Superintendent of the Public Instruction.
(1990 Code, § 34.001)  (Ord. 72, passed 5-9-1990)
§ 71.02  OVERTAKING, MEETING, OR PASSING.
   The driver of a vehicle that overtakes or meets a school bus which is
stopped and which is displaying two alternately flashing red lights located at
the same level shall bring the vehicle to a full stop not less than ten feet
from the school bus and shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion
or the visual signals are no longer activated. The driver of the school bus,
before resuming motion, shall deactivate the flashing lights, shall permit
stopped traffic to proceed, and shall, resuming motion, proceed in a manner
that will allow congested traffic to disburse by keeping the bus as near to the
right side of the road as can be done with safety.
(1990 Code, § 34.002)  (Ord. 72, passed 5-9-1990)
§ 71.03  DISCHARGE OF PASSENGERS.
   Passengers who cross the road upon being discharged from a school bus shall
cross in front of the stopped school bus.
(1990 Code, § 34.003)  (Ord. 72, passed 5-9-1990)
§ 71.04  FAILURE TO STOP.
   The driver of a vehicle who fails to stop for a school bus as required by §§
71.02 through
71.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1990 Code, § 34.004)  (Ord. 72, passed 5-9-1990)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force 20 days from and after its
enactment as provided by the city.
(1990 Code, § 34.006)  (Ord. 72, passed 5-9-1990)
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20  VEHICULAR TRAFFIC SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to set vehicular traffic speed limits
in the city. The speed limits shall be as set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
   (B)   This section shall become effective 30 days from this date.
(1990 Code, § 36.001)  (Ord. 17h, passed 10-11-1965)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.05, upon conviction thereof in any court of competent jurisdiction, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500 or to imprisonment in the County Jail
for a period of not more than 90 days or to both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court.
(1990 Code, § 34.005)
   (C)   Penalty for violation of §
71.20 will come under the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
(1990 Code, § 36.001)
(Ord. 17h, passed 10-11-1965; Ord. 72, passed 5-9-1990)
CHAPTER 72:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobile Operation
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation upon public highway, street, or parking lot
   
72.03   Conditions of operation
   
72.04   Prohibited areas
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILE OPERATION
§ 72.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY or STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   OPERATE.  To ride in or on and be in actual physical control of the
operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who operates or who is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   PERSON.  An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and any of its
agencies or subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The portion of a highway less the roadway and any shoulder.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of a highway improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel. If a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the
term ROADWAY refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   SHOULDER.  The portion of a highway on either side of the roadway which is
normally snowplowed for the safety and convenience of vehicular traffic.
   SNOWMOBILE.  Any motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on ice
or snow of a type which utilizes sled-type runners or skis or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or similar means of contact with the surface
upon which it is operated other than a vehicle required to be registered under
Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923, as amended.
(1990 Code, § 35.001)  (Ord. 27A, passed 12-3-1973)
§ 72.02  OPERATION UPON PUBLIC HIGHWAY, STREET, OR PARKING LOT.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile upon a public highway, land used as
a street, or on a public parking lot not specifically designed for the use of
snowmobiles except under the following conditions and circumstances.
   (A)   A snowmobile may be operated on the right-of-way of a public highway
or street within the city if it is operated at the extreme right of the open
portion of the right-of-way and with the flow of traffic.
   (B)   A snowmobile may be operated on a roadway or shoulder when necessary
to cross a bridge or culvert if the snowmobile is brought to a complete stop
before entering onto the roadway or shoulder and the driver yields the right-
of-way to any approaching vehicle on the highway or street.
   (C)   A snowmobile may be operated across a public highway other than a
limited access highway, at right angles to the highway, for the purpose of
getting from one area to another when the operation can be done in safety and
another vehicle is not crossing the highway at the same time in the same
general area. An operator shall bring his or her snowmobile to a complete stop
before proceeding across any public highway and shall yield the right-of-way to
all oncoming traffic.
(1990 Code, § 35.002)  (Ord. 27A, passed 12-3-1973)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile in any area permitted by this
subchapter:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing;
   (B)   At a speed greater than ten mph;
   (C)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs,
barbital, or any derivative of barbital;
   (D)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and lighted taillight; or
   (E)   During the hours from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
(1990 Code, § 35.003)  (Ord. 27A, passed 12-3-1973)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on or across any of the following areas
within the city:
   (A)   Cemetery or burial grounds;
   (B)   Public sidewalks;
   (C)   Public parks;
   (D)   Any other real property owned by the city and utilized for the
operation of its water, sewage disposal or other utilities; or
   (E)   On a railroad or railroad right-of-way except for railroad, public
utility, or law enforcement personnel while in the performance of their duty.
(1990 Code, § 35.004)  (Ord. 27A, passed 12-3-1973)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
72.01 through
72.04 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than $100 and
costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for not more than 90 days or to both such
fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(1990 Code, Part 35)  (Ord. 27A, passed 12-3-1973)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING
Section
Parking of Commercial Vehicles or Trailers in Residential Districts
   
73.01   Restricted commercial parking
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Exceptions
   
73.04   Effective date
Parking of Motor Vehicles on Downtown Streets
   
73.20   Parking regulations
   
73.21   Effective date
Parking of Vehicle With Trailer Attached
   
73.35   Parking regulations
   
73.36   Determining person responsible for violation
Parking Violations Bureau
   
73.50   Establishment, supervision, and control
   
73.51   Location, employees, rules, and regulations
   
73.52   Scheduled, unscheduled violations
   
73.53   Rights of violators
   
73.54   Traffic ticket or notice of violation
   
73.55   Schedule of offenses and fines
   
73.56   Repeal
   
73.57   Effective date
 
   
73.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Schedule of Offenses and Fines
   
Appendix B:  Additional Offenses Frequently Prescribed by Ordinance and Penalty
Variations
PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES OR TRAILERS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 73.01  RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a commercial vehicle or trailer
on the streets of the city.
(1990 Code, § 38.001)  (Ord. 26, passed 12-3-1973)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.  All motor vehicles used for the transportation of
passengers for hire, goods, wares, or merchandise, weighing two and one-half
tons, or more, without load, or being more than 22 feet in overall length or
having more than two axles.
   STREETS.  Any portion of the road right-of-way.
   TRAILER.  All vehicles, being more than 16 feet in overall length, designed
for carrying property or persons and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
(1990 Code, § 38.002)  (Ord. 26, passed 12-3-1973)
§ 73.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to commercial vehicles or
trailers parked while making actual deliveries or while engaged in
construction, general repair, furniture moving, or other type of commercial
work.
(1990 Code, § 38.003)  (Ord. 26, passed 12-3-1973)
§ 73.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This subchapter shall take effect ten days after publication.
(1990 Code, § 38.005)  (Ord. 26, passed 12-3-1973)
PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON DOWNTOWN STREETS
§ 73.20  PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Hereafter it shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle for longer than 15
minutes at any one time in the downtown area as set forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule I.
(1990 Code, § 39.001)  (Ord.17a, passed 1-4-1950)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 20 days after its passage.
(1990 Code, § 39.003)  (Ord.17a, passed 1-4-1950)
PARKING OF VEHICLE WITH TRAILER ATTACHED
§ 73.35  PARKING REGULATIONS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for the owner or driver of any truck or of
any passenger vehicle with trailer attached to park said truck or said
passenger vehicle with trailer attached on locations as set forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule II.
(1990 Code, § 40.001)  (Ord. 17b, passed 8-6-1962)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.36  DETERMINING PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR VIOLATION.
   In any proceeding for violation of the provisions of this subchapter when
the identity of the driver of such motor vehicle cannot be determined, the
person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible
for such violation.
(1990 Code, § 40.002)  (Ord. 17b, passed 8-6-1962)  Penalty, see §
73.99
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 73.50  ESTABLISHMENT, SUPERVISION, AND CONTROL.
   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, State of Michigan, as
added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a Parking
Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking violations
within the city, is hereby established. The Parking Violations Bureau shall be
under the supervision and control of the City Clerk Treasurer.
(1990 Code, § 37.001)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.51  LOCATION, EMPLOYEES, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor shall, subject to the approval of the City Council, establish a
convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint qualified city
employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and regulations for the
operation thereof.
(1990 Code, § 37.002)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.52  SCHEDULED, UNSCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   No violation not scheduled in §
73.55/
Appendix A shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau. The fact that
a particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau and in any case the person in charge
of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation in which case any person
having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any court
having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
(1990 Code, § 37.003)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.53  RIGHTS OF VIOLATORS.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges, and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(1990 Code, § 37.004)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.54  TRAFFIC TICKET OR NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. Such traffic
ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which the
person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violations
Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense
for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the arrest of the
person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if such a person fails to
respond within the time limited.
(1990 Code, § 37.005)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.55  SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES.
   See
Appendix A for the schedule of offenses and fines.
(1990 Code, § 37.006)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.56  REPEAL.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this subchapter are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
(1990 Code, § 37.007)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.57  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon publication and on and after the
expiration of the time prescribed by the City Charter.
(1990 Code, § 37.008)  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
73.20 shall, upon a finding of responsibility, pay a fine of not more than $50,
together with costs at the discretion of the court.
(1990 Code, § 39.002)
   (B)   Violation of §§
73.35 and
73.36 shall be a civil infraction and shall be processed as such.
(1990 Code, § 40.003)
(Ord.17a, passed 1-4-1950; Ord. 17b, passed 8-6-1962; Ord. 26, passed 12-3-
1973; Ord. 47, passed 6-9-1981; Ord. 48, passed 6-9-1981)
APPENDIX A:  SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES
Offense UTC Sec. Penalty 
Offense                                                                      UTC   Penalty 
                                                                             Sec.
Failure to set brakes                                                        5.58  $3
Parked on grade, wheels not turned to curb                                   5.58  $2
Bicycle parking violations                                                   6.17  $1
Parking too far from curb                                                    8.1,  $2
                                                                             8.2
Angle parking violations                                                     8.3   $2
Obstructing traffic                                                          8.5   $5
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary):
   (a) Beside street excavation when traffic obstructed                        $5
   (b) Blocking emergency exit                                                 $5
   (c) Blocking fire escape                                                    $5
   (d) Double parking                                                          $5
   (e) In front of drive                                                       $5
   (f) In front of theater                                                     $3
   (g) On bridge or viaduct or within tunnel                                   $10
   (h) On crosswalk                                                            $5
   (i) On sidewalk                                                       8.10  $5
   (j) Within intersection                                                     $10
   (k) Within 15 feet of hydrant                                               $5
   (l) Within 20 feet of crosswalk or 15 feet of corner lot lines              $5
   (m) Within 20 feet of fire station entrance                                 $5
   (n) Within 30 feet of street side traffic sign or signal                    $5
   (o) Within 50 feet of railroad crossings                                    $5
   (p) Within 75 feet of fire station entrance on opposite side of street       $5
(sign required) 
   (q) Within 200 feet of accident where police in attendance                  $3
In prohibited zone (signs required)                                          8.10r $3
In alley                                                                     8.13  $3
Parking for prohibited purpose:
   (a) Displaying advertising                                                  $3
   (b) Displaying vehicle for sale                                       8.14  $3
   (c) Selling merchandise                                                     $3
   (d) Storage over 48 hours                                                   $5
   (e) Working or repairing vehicle                                            $3
Wrong side boulevard roadway                                                 8.15  $2
Loading zone violation                                                       8.16, $2
                                                                             8.17
Bus parking other than bus stop                                              8.19  $5
Taxicab parking other than cab stand                                         8.19  $5
Bus, taxicab stand violations                                                8.20  $5
Meter violations*                                                            8.21  $2
Meters, not parked within space                                              8.22  $2
*Penalties assigned are derived from representative ordinances and may be increased or
decreased in the discretion of the Council.
 
(1990 Code, § 37.020 (Appendix A))  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
APPENDIX B: ADDITIONAL OFFENSES FREQUENTLY PRESCRIBED BY ORDINANCE AND PENALTY
VARIATIONS
Offense First Offense Second Offense Third and Subsequent Offenses
                                                                Third and
Offense                            First Offense Second Offense Subsequent
                                                                Offenses
Abandoned vehicle (plus towing and $5            $5             $5
storage charge)
All night parking                  $2            $5             $10
Between sidewalk and curb          $3            $5             $10
Disabled vehicle, failure to move  $10           $10            $10
In prohibited zone:
   (a) Fire lane                $3            $5             $10
   (b) Prohibited zone          $2            $2             $2
   (c) Two-way zone             $3            $5             $10
Keys in vehicle or motor running   $10           $10            $10
Private property without owner’s $5            $10            Court
consent
 
(1990 Code, § 37.030 (Appendix B))  (Ord. 22, passed 11-4-1969)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
Street Restricted Area Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Restricted Area           Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
On Michigan Street   Between Main Street and   30 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     the railroad tracks
                     Between the railroad
                     tracks and the east city  40 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     limits
On North Main Street Between city limits and   40 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     Center Street
                     Between Center Street and 30 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     Elm Street
                     Between Elm Street and    40 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     south city limits
On West Elm Street   Between South Main Street 30 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     and Ridge Street
                     Between Ridge Street and  40 mph      17h      10-11-1965
                     west city limits
All other streets                              25 mph      17h      10-11-1965
 
(1990 Code, § 36.001)  Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Overnight parking downtown
      
II.   Attached trailers
SCHEDULE I.  OVERNIGHT PARKING DOWNTOWN.
   Hereafter it shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle for longer than 15
minutes at any one time from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. each day as follows:
 
Street          Restricted Area                            Ord. No. Date Passed
                Commencing at a point on Main Street 100
                feet north of the north line of the
                intersection on Main and Michigan Streets
Main Street     in the city and extending on both sides of 17a      1-4-1950
                Main Street south to the north line of
                Cherry Street where the same intersects
                Main Street
                Commencing at the west end thereof and
Michigan Street extending on both sides thereof to a point 17a      1-4-1950
                where said Michigan Street is intersected
                by the west line of Chestnut Street
 
(1990 Code, § 39.001)  Penalty, see §
73.99
SCHEDULE II.  ATTACHED TRAILERS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for the owner or driver of any truck or of
any passenger vehicle with trailer attached to park said truck or said
passenger vehicle with trailer attached:
 
Street      Restricted Area                          Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street Between Michigan Street on the north and 17b      8-6-1962
            Cherry Street on the south
 
(1990 Code, § 40.001)  Penalty, see §
73.99
CHAPTER 76:  SNOW REMOVAL
Section
   
76.01   Vehicles restricting snow removal; penalty and enforcement
   
76.02   Notification of restrictions
   
76.03   Exemptions
   
76.04   Applicability
 
   
76.99   Violations as municipal civil infractions; penalties
§ 76.01  VEHICLES RESTRICTING SNOW REMOVAL; PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   It is unlawful to park, leave unattended or fail to remove any motor vehicle
or trailer on any public street, highway, parking lot or alleyway within the
city after a snowfall and/or drifting snow of four inches or more, prior to the
removal by city plowing of such snow. All vehicles and/or trailers found in
violation of this section shall be ticketed and the owner, if possible,
notified to remove said vehicle from the public street, highway, parking lot or
alleyway. In addition, the vehicle and/or trailer may be removed from the
public street, highway, parking lot or alleyway at the expense of the vehicle
owner. The expenses shall include all towing and storage charges attached to
the vehicle. Enforcement of this section shall be under the direction of the
Police Department personnel.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 76.02  NOTIFICATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall cause notification to be given
to all persons residing and those doing business in the city of the
restrictions and of the penalties set forth by this chapter. Notification shall
be made by publication in the official city newspaper within 20 days from the
date of adoption of this chapter and by posting signs in appropriate places on
the streets and highways in the city.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 76.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   A person may obtain a hardship permit from the Police Department by
completing an application provided therefore, and signing an affidavit
indicating that the residence does not have off-street parking, or off-street
parking is inadequate by reason of his or her physical condition.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 76.04  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all public streets, highways, parking lots or
alleyways located within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-11-2014)
§ 76.99  VIOLATIONS AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS; PENALTIES.
   A person who violates the provision of this chapter shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction and Reading City Police Officers are hereby
authorized to issue citations for such violations. The Judge or District Court
Magistrate may order the defendant to pay a civil fine, costs, assessments,
and, if applicable, damages and expenses as provided in Public Acts of 1961,
Chapter 87, as added by Public Acts of 1994 and as amended. (M.C.L.A. 600.8701
et seq., as amended.)
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 11-11-2014)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL TREATMENT AND CONTROL
      
91.   NUISANCES; SANITATION; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   MUNICIPAL TREES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
95.   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL TREATMENT AND CONTROL
Section
Animals Generally
   
90.01   Cruelty to animals
   
90.02   Poisoning animals
   
90.03   Birds and birds’ nests
   
90.04   Riding horses and the like
Dogs
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Running at large
   
90.17   Seizure and impounding of dogs
   
90.18   Rabies prevention
   
90.19   Exposure to rabies; notice
   
90.20   Impounding and release
   
90.21   Notice to owner
   
90.22   Dogs released from the dog pound
   
90.23   Licenses
   
90.24   Effective date
Animal Restrictions
   
90.35   Compliance; exception
   
90.36   Permit required
   
90.37   Permit application
   
90.38   Permit; wild animals
   
90.39   Permit; cattle, sheep, swine, and horses
   
90.40   Permit; birds, fowl, and rabbits
   
90.41   Nuisance; abatement
   
90.42   Running at large
   
90.43   Effective date
Burial of Dead Animals
   
90.55   Compliance with regulations
   
90.56   Regulations
   
90.57   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noise control, see §
91.035
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 90.01  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat or abuse any animal or bird.
(1990 Code, § 60A.001)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  POISONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any exposed
public or private place where it endangers, or is likely to endanger, any
animal or bird.
(1990 Code, § 60A.002)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  BIRDS AND BIRDS’ NESTS.
   No person, except a police officer acting in his or her official capacity,
shall molest, injure, kill, or capture any wild bird, or molest or disturb any
wild bird’s nest or the contents thereof.
(1990 Code, § 60A.003)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  RIDING HORSES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall ride, drive, or lead any horse, pony, donkey, or mule other
than in the traveled roadway of streets and public ways except when upon
privately owned property with the consent of the owner.
(1990 Code, § 60A.004)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER.  When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, shall include every
person having a right of property in such dog, and every person who keeps or
harbors such dog or has it in his or her care, and every person who permits
such dog to remain in or about any premises occupied by him or her.
   REASONABLE CONTROL.  Keeping a dog on suitable leash or under the oral
control of the owner or custodian or some other person with the permission of
the owner or custodian, in all cases other than while upon private property, or
unless the dog is confined in a closed automobile or shipping receptacle.
(1990 Code, § 60B.001)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.16  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person owning any dog, four months of age or over, shall permit such dog
to be at large at any time in the city in violation of any of the following
restrictions.
   (A)   No person shall permit any vicious dog of which he or she is the owner
to be unconfined unless securely muzzled and led by a leash. Any dog shall be
deemed vicious which has bitten a person or domestic animal without
molestation, or which by its actions gives indication that it is liable to bite
any person or domestic animal without molestation.
   (B)   No person who is the owner of any female dog shall permit or allow
such female dog to go beyond the premises of such owner when said dog is in
heat.
   (C)   No person who is the owner of any dog shall permit it to be unconfined
unless under the reasonable control of some person.
   (D)   No person who is the owner of any dog shall permit it to be unconfined
at any time unless licensed as required by law and unless wearing its license
tag.
   (E)   No person shall own any dog which by loud or frequent or habitual
barking, yelping, or howling shall cause annoyance to the people in the
neighborhood.
(1990 Code, § 60B.002)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF DOGS.
   Any dog found at large in the city which is doing any of the acts enumerated
in §
90.16 may be seized and impounded by the dog warden or any police officer of
the city.
(1990 Code, § 60B.003)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.18  RABIES PREVENTION.
   Any person who shall have in his or her possession a dog which has
contracted rabies or which has been subjected to the same or which is suspected
of having rabies or which has bitten any person shall, upon demand of the
Police Department or the Health Officer, produce and surrender such dog to be
held for observation as hereinafter provided.
(1990 Code, § 60B.004)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.19  EXPOSURE TO RABIES; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of any person owing or harboring a dog, which has been
attacked or bitten by another dog or other animal showing the symptoms of
rabies, immediately to notify the Police Department of his or her possession of
such dog.
(1990 Code, § 60B.005)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  IMPOUNDING AND RELEASE.
   Any dog impounded for observation for rabies shall be held until released by
the Health Officer or otherwise disposed of. Any dog impounded for having
bitten any person shall be held for not less than five days, and in case any
complaint shall have been made before any court asking that said dog be killed
or confined, then said dog shall be confined until the case is finally disposed
of.
(1990 Code, § 60B.006)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.21  NOTICE TO OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the dog warden to notify the owner of every dog
which shall be impounded, if the owner of such dog can be ascertained, as soon
as possible after said dog has been impounded.
(1990 Code, § 60B.007)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.22  DOGS RELEASED FROM THE DOG POUND.
   No dog shall be released from the pound unless the owner or persons entitled
to claim the same shall pay the fees established by the County Animal Shelter.
(1990 Code, § 60B.008)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.23  LICENSES.
   No person shall keep possession of or harbor any dog over three months of
age unless such dog shall wear a collar to which is attached the license tag
provided for by the laws of the state. This license shall be attained at the
office of the County Treasurer.
(1990 Code, § 60B.009)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 60B)  (Ord. 6a, passed 4-2-1973)
ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS
§ 90.35  COMPLIANCE; EXCEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to harbor, keep, or
suffer to be kept contrary to the provisions of this subchapter and the
applicable portions of the zoning chapter within the city, for any purpose, any
live animals, birds, fowl, or insects, whether domestic or wild, other than
common house pets; provided, however, that offspring of animals, birds, or fowl
kept on premises within the city pursuant to and in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter shall be exempt from the provisions hereof for
the six months immediately following their birth, and except as otherwise
provided in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 61A.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No animals, birds, fowl, or insects shall be kept on any premises within the
city without a permit therefor. A permit covering all such animals, birds,
fowl, or insects as are on the premises on the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this subchapter, or to be placed on the premises after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this subchapter, shall be issued by
the City Clerk Treasurer upon compliance with all of the terms and provisions
of the zoning chapter, and upon payment of the sum of $1 therefor. Such permit
shall be dated and shall expire at the end of one year, whereupon it shall be
necessary to renew same; provided, that prior to placing any additional
animals, birds, fowl, or insects covered by the terms of this subchapter upon
any premises located within the city subsequent to the issuance of a permit
under the provisions of this subchapter, the person, firm, or corporation
desiring to harbor, keep, or permit the keeping of such additional animals,
birds, fowl, and insects shall make application for an amended permit, the
amended permit to be issued upon compliance with all the terms and provisions
of this subchapter and applicable provisions of the zoning chapter without cost
to the applicant therefor and to expire on even date with the original permit
issued.
(1990 Code, § 61B.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each application for an original or amended permit shall state the
name and address of the applicant, the proposed location of the animals, fowl,
birds, or insects, and an accurate description of the kind and number of
animals, fowl, birds, or insects to be kept or otherwise harbored thereon.
   (B)   Each application shall be referred to the Ordinance Chairperson, who
shall cause an investigation and inspection to be made of the proposed site and
who shall approve of the issuance of the requested permit or amended permit
upon determining that the issuance thereof will not violate the terms and
provisions of this subchapter, the applicable provisions of the zoning chapter,
and will not otherwise be unsanitary or dangerous to the health of any persons
or person.
(1990 Code, § 61C.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 90.38  PERMIT; WILD ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this subchapter to the contrary, no
captured wild animals such as bear, squirrels, raccoons, fox, reptiles, or any
other wild animal shall be permitted to be kept in the city without a special
permit therefor to be granted by the City Council, upon such conditions as it
deems expedient to protect the health and safety of the public, and without
compliance to the applicable state statutes, rules, and regulations.
(1990 Code, § 61D.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39  PERMIT; CATTLE, SHEEP, SWINE, AND HORSES.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this subchapter to the contrary, no
permit shall be issued to any applicant for the keeping in the city of cattle,
oxen, sheep, goats, hogs, swine, horses, donkeys, or ponies when there are
other occupied human residential habitations within a radius of 500 feet,
unless the applicant shall have obtained the consent in writing of 75% of all
the residents within the 500-foot radius. The Ordinance Chairperson may, in his
or her sole discretion, refuse to approve the issuance of a permit for the
keeping of any of the aforesaid animals when, after proper investigation and
report thereon, he or she determines and finds that the keeping of the cattle,
oxen, goats, hogs, swine, sheep, horses, donkeys, and ponies in an occupied
residential area in the city would be unsanitary or unhygienic and/or for any
reason unsafe or dangerous to the health, safety, or welfare of the residents
of the city; provided, that the consent otherwise required pursuant to the
terms of this section shall not apply to cattle, oxen, goats, hogs, swine,
sheep, horses, donkeys, and ponies kept upon any premises located within the
city upon the effective date of the ordinance codified in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 61E.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40  PERMIT; BIRDS, FOWL, AND RABBITS.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this subchapter to the contrary, no
permit shall be issued to any applicant for the keeping of four or more
rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, pigeons, or guinea hens where there
are other occupied human habitations within a radius of 250 feet unless the
consent in writing shall have been obtained of 75% of the residents within the
250-foot radius. The Ordinance Chairperson may deny and refuse to approve the
issuance of any permit if he or she determines the sanitary and hygienic
condition of the proposed location unsafe or dangerous to the health, safety,
or welfare of the residents of the city; provided, however, no permit shall be
required for the keeping of four or less of the animals or creatures enumerated
in this section; provided further, that the consent otherwise required pursuant
to the terms of this section shall not apply to the keeping of four or more
rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, pigeons, or guinea hens kept upon any
premises located within the city upon the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 61F.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41  NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   The keeping of any animals, birds, fowl, or insects within the corporate
limits of the city without compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
shall be and constitutes a nuisance. It shall be the duty of the Ordinance
Chairperson where any such nuisance as defined in this subchapter is maintained
or continued to give the owner or occupant of the premises 30 days’ notice in
writing thereof and, if at the expiration of the period such nuisance is not
abated, the Ordinance Chairperson shall petition the County Circuit Court to
declare the same a nuisance and order it abated in addition to any and all
penalties provided in this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 61G.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It is unlawful for any animals, birds, fowl, or insects covered by this
subchapter to run at large or to be allowed or permitted to run at large or be
staked out within the city upon the streets, alleys, public places, or upon the
private property of others without the written consent of the owner of such
private property. Any cattle, horses, mules, sheep, swine, or goats found
running at large shall be impounded and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of the statutes of the state in such case made and provided.
(1990 Code, § 61H.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be November 21, 1988.
(1990 Code, Part 61)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)
BURIAL OF DEAD ANIMALS
§ 90.55  COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   No person shall bury any dead animal or part thereof upon his or her
property, or upon any other property within the city, except as provided in §
90.56.
(1990 Code, § 62.001)  (Ord. 6b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.56  REGULATIONS.
   Each dead animal shall be securely covered and removed within six hours
after its death by its owner, or by the person in whose possession or upon
whose premises it is, or if it is in a public place, by the Chief of Police,
and buried at least two feet beneath the surface of the ground.
(1990 Code, § 62.002)  (Ord. 6b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.57  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 62)  (Ord. 6b, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Conviction for violation of any of the provisions of §§
90.35 through
90.43 shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed $100, together with costs of
prosecution.
(1990 Code, § 61I.000)  (Ord. 70, passed 11-9-1988)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES; SANITATION; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Section
Junk and Other Nuisances
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Storage or accumulation of junk
   
91.003   Dismantling of automobile, appliance, or machinery
   
91.004   Blighted or vacant structure
   
91.005   Storage or accumulation of building materials
   
91.006   Removal of junk automobile or abandoned vehicle, or parts of either
   
91.007   Effective date
Junk Motor Vehicles
   
91.020   Motor vehicles
   
91.021   Junk
   
91.022   Inconsistent ordinances
   
91.023   Effective date
Noise Control
   
91.035   Unreasonable noise prohibited; exceptions
   
91.036   Effective date
Grass and Noxious Weeds
   
91.050   Cutting of grass and weeds
   
91.051   Duty of occupant or owner
   
91.052   When city to do the work
   
91.053   Effective date
Nuisance and Hazard Abatement
   
91.065   Nuisances and hazards removed
   
91.066   Recommendations to the Council
   
91.067   Notice by Council
   
91.068   Noncompliance with notice
   
91.069   Cost; assessed
   
91.070   Effective date
Nuisances and Dangerous Structures
   
91.085   Nuisance defined and prohibited
   
91.086   Dangerous structures
   
91.087   Dangerous structures; notice and hearing
   
91.088   Dangerous structures; abatement
   
91.089   Dangerous structures; emergency abatement
   
91.090   Effective date
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal treatment and control, see
Chapter 91
   Car washes and laundromats, excessive noise, see
Chapter 110
   Conduct in city parks, see
Chapter 131
   Swimming pool noise, see §
150.18
   Trees as nuisances, see
Chapter 93
JUNK AND OTHER NUISANCES
§ 91.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  Includes without limitations any vehicle which has
remained on private property for a period of 48 continuous hours, or more,
without the consent of the owner or occupant of the property, or for a period
of 48 continuous hours or more after the consent of the owner or occupant has
been revoked.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE.  Includes without limitations any dwelling, garage, or
outbuilding, or any factory, shop, store, warehouse, or any other structure or
part of a structure which, because of fire, wind, or other natural disaster, or
physical deterioration, is no longer habitable as a dwelling, nor useful for
the purpose for which it may have been intended.
   BUILDING MATERIALS.  Includes without limitations lumber, bricks, concrete
or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electric wiring or equipment, heating
ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws, or any
other materials used in constructing any structure.
   JUNK.  Includes without limitations parts of machinery or motor vehicles,
unused furniture, stoves, refrigerators or other appliances, remnants of wood,
metal, or any other castoff material of any kind, whether or not the same could
be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILE. 
      (1)   Either, or both, of the following:
         (a)   Any operative or inoperative motor vehicle which is not licensed
for use upon the highways of this state for a period in excess of 60 days; and/
or
         (b)   Any motor vehicle, whether licensed for use upon the highways of
this state or not, which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess
of 60 days.
      (2)   Anything to the contrary contained in this definition
notwithstanding, the definition of JUNK AUTOMOBILE shall not be deemed to
include unlicensed, but operative, motor vehicles which are kept on the
business premises and being offered for sale as the stock-in-trade of a
regularly licensed and established new or used motor vehicle dealer.
   PERSON.  Includes all natural persons, firms, co-partnerships, corporations,
and all associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated,
whether acting by themselves, or by a servant, agent, or employee. All PERSONS
who violate any of the provisions of this subchapter, whether as owner,
occupant, lessee, agent, servant, or employee, shall, except as herein
otherwise provided, be equally liable as principals.
   TRASH and RUBBISH.  Include any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
classified.
(1990 Code, § 70.954)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973; Ord. 71, passed 4-18-1989)
§ 91.002  STORAGE OR ACCUMULATION OF JUNK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or to permit the storage or
accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, junk automobiles, or abandoned vehicles
on any private property in the city except within a completely enclosed
building or upon the premises of a duly licensed junk dealer, junk buyer,
dealer in used auto parts, or dealer in second-hand goods.
(1990 Code, § 70.955)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003  DISMANTLING OF AUTOMOBILE, APPLIANCE, OR MACHINERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dismantle, cut up, remove parts from,
or otherwise disassemble any automobile, whether or not the same be a junk
automobile, abandoned vehicle, or otherwise, or any appliance or machinery,
except in a completely enclosed building, or upon the premises of a duly
licensed junk dealer, junk buyer, dealer in used auto parts, or dealer in
second-hand goods.
(1990 Code, § 70.956)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004  BLIGHTED OR VACANT STRUCTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted or
vacant structure, dwelling, garage, outbuilding, factory, shop, store, or
warehouse unless the same is kept securely locked, the windows kept glazed or
neatly boarded up, and otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by
unauthorized persons; or unless structure is in the course of construction in
accordance with a valid building permit issued by the city, and unless such
construction is completed within a reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 70.957)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous structures, see §§
91.085 through
91.090
§ 91.005  STORAGE OR ACCUMULATION OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage or
accumulation of building materials on any private property, except in a
completely enclosed building or except where such building materials are part
of the stock-in-trade of a business located on said property, or except when
such materials are being used in the construction of a structure on the
property in accordance with a valid building permit issued by the city, and
unless such construction is completed within a reasonable time.
(1990 Code, § 70.958)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006  REMOVAL OF JUNK AUTOMOBILE OR ABANDONED VEHICLE, OR PARTS OF EITHER.
   The City Council or a designated representative may remove or cause to be
removed any junk automobile or abandoned vehicle, or parts of either, from any
unenclosed private property after having notified, in writing, the owner or
occupant of such property of his or her intention to do so at least 48 hours
prior to such removal. Such notice shall be served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the property, if occupied, or may be posted in a conspicuous place
upon vacant or unoccupied property. Such junk automobiles or abandoned
vehicles, or parts of either, shall be removed to the automobile pound and
disposed of in accordance with law. Such removal by the City Council or
designated representative shall not excuse or relieve any person of the
obligation imposed by this subchapter to keep his or her property free from
storage or accumulation of junk automobiles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of
either, nor from the penalties for violation thereof.
(1990 Code, § 70.959)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.007  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to have immediate effect within ten days after adoption
by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 70)  (Ord. 10b, passed 4-2-1973)
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.020  MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except as provided in other regulations, no currently unregistered,
uninspected, or junk motor vehicle shall be parked on any property, nor shall
any such vehicle be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the
process of being stripped or dismantled. A vehicle of any type shall not at any
time undergo major overhaul, including body work, unless such work is performed
inside a totally enclosed structure or similar totally enclosed area designed
and approved for such purposes.
(1990 Code, § 71.001)  (Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.021  JUNK.
   JUNK, as used in this subchapter, shall mean a vehicle which is seven or
more years old and is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the
extent that the cost of repairing that vehicle so that it is operational and
safe to travel on public highways, would exceed the fair market value of that
vehicle.
(1990 Code, § 71.002)  (Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988)
§ 91.022  INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances that are inconsistent with the terms of this subchapter, in
whole or in part, are hereby repealed.
(1990 Code, § 71.004)  (Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988)
§ 91.023  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect ten days after publication pursuant to
Charter.
(1990 Code, Part 71)  (Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 91.035  UNREASONABLE NOISE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibitions.  Each of the following acts creating noise is declared
unlawful and prohibited, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Animal and bird noises.  The keeping of any animal or bird which,
by causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or
repose of any person;
      (2)   Construction noises.  The erection, including excavating therefor,
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, and the excavation of
streets and highways on Sundays and other days, except between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless a permit therefor is first obtained from the City
Council or its appointed representative;
      (3)   Devices to attract attention.  Use of any drum, loudspeaker,
amplifier, or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting
attention for any purpose;
      (4)   Engine exhausts.  The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (5)   Handling merchandise.  The creation of a loud and excessive noise
in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and
destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers;
      (6)   Hawking.  The hawking of goods, merchandise, or newspapers in a
loud and boisterous manner;
      (7)   Horns and signal devices.  The sounding of any horn or signal
device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in
motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently
out of control, or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in
motion, only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (8)   Radio and musical instruments.  The playing of any radio,
phonograph, or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such volume,
particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time
or place, so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in
any office or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or of any
persons in the vicinity;
      (9)   Shouting and whistling.  Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing or the making of any other loud noise on the public street, between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or the making of any such noise at any time
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any
school, place of worship, or office, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type
of residence, or of any person in the vicinity; and
      (10)   Whistle or siren.  The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger.
   (B)   Exceptions.  None of the terms of prohibitions of division (A) above
shall apply to or be enforced against:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles.  Any police or fire vehicle or any ambulance,
while engaged upon emergency business;
      (2)   Highway maintenance and construction.  Excavations or repairs of
bridges, streets, or highways by or on behalf of the city or the state during
the night when the public safety, welfare, and convenience renders it
impossible to perform such work during the day; and
      (3)   Public addresses.  The reasonable use of stationary amplifiers or
loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in
character.
(1990 Code, § 72.001)  (Ord. 24, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 72)  (Ord. 24, passed 4-2-1973)
GRASS AND NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 91.050  CUTTING OF GRASS AND WEEDS.
   No person occupying any premises, and no person owning any unoccupied
premises, shall permit or maintain on any such premises any growth of weeds,
grass, or other rank vegetation to a greater height than ten inches on the
average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush. No such occupant
or owner shall cause, suffer, or allow poison ivy, ragweed, or other noxious
plants, or plants detrimental to health, to grow on premises in such manner
that any part of such ivy, ragweed, or other noxious or harmful weed shall
extend upon, overhang, or border any public place, or allow seed, pollen, or
other particles or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into any
public place.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-11-2005)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.051  DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every premises, and the owner of
unoccupied premises, within the city to cut and remove or destroy by lawful
means all such weeds, grass, or rank, noxious, or harmful vegetation as often
as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-11-2005)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.052  WHEN CITY TO DO THE WORK.
   If the provisions of §§
91.050 and
91.051 are not complied with, the City Council or its duly authorized
representative shall notify the occupant or owner of unoccupied premises to
comply with the provisions of those sections within a time to be specified in
the notice. The notice shall require compliance with §§
91.050 and
91.051 within five days after service of the notice, and if the notice is not
complied with within that time period, the City Council shall cause such weeds,
grass, and other vegetation to be removed or destroyed and the actual cost of
such cutting, removal, or destruction, plus 20% for inspection and other
additional cost incurred in connection therewith, shall be assessed upon the
property and shall constitute a lien upon the property. This assessment shall
be collected at the same time as are the regular city property taxes, if
unpaid, and shall be subject to the same penalties as are levied for unpaid
property taxes. Levying or collection of this assessment shall not relieve any
person violating the provisions of this subchapter from the penalty prescribed
for violations of this code.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-11-2005)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.053  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect November 1, 2005, said date being at least
ten days after the date on which it has been published in a newspaper or
municipal newsletter in general circulation within the city.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-11-2005)
NUISANCE AND HAZARD ABATEMENT
§ 91.065  NUISANCES AND HAZARDS REMOVED.
   The hazards and nuisances specified and defined in this code shall be
abated, either by action of the owner or by the action of the City Council
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 2.001)  (Ord. 10c, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.066  RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE COUNCIL.
   Whenever a city officer is made responsible for the abatement of a nuisance
or hazard by order of the City Council, he or she shall present to the City
Council his or her recommendation that the hazard or nuisance be done away
with.
(1990 Code, § 2.002)  (Ord. 10c, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.067  NOTICE BY COUNCIL.
   Whenever a recommendation shall have been presented to the City Council in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding section, the Council shall
immediately accept or reject such recommendation. If, in the opinion of the
Council, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to the health or safety
of the inhabitants of the city exists, the Council shall issue an order to the
owner of the offending premises specifying the nature of the nuisance or hazard
and requiring such owner to abate the hazard or nuisance promptly and within a
time commensurate with the nature of the hazard or nuisance.
(1990 Code, § 2.003)  (Ord. 10c, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.068  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE.
   If, at the expiration of the time limit as set forth in the notice pursuant
to the preceding section, the owner of the premises has not complied with the
requirements as set forth in the notice, or in any case where the owner of the
premises is not known, the Council may order such hazard or nuisance abated by
the proper department or agency of the city which is qualified to do the work
required or may do the work by contract or by hire.
(1990 Code, § 2.004)  (Ord. 10c, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.069  COST; ASSESSED.
   The cost of the removal of the hazard or nuisance shall be assessed upon the
property upon which such hazard or nuisance was located and shall constitute a
lien upon such property. This assessment shall be collected at the same time as
are the regular city property taxes, if unpaid, and shall be subject to the
same penalties as are levied for unpaid property taxes.
(1990 Code, § 2.005)  (Ord. 10c, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.070  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to be effective ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 2)  (Ord. 10c, passed 4-2-1973)
NUISANCES AND DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
§ 91.085  NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROHIBITED.
   Whatever annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs, or
renders dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake, or stream; or in any way
renders the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a
PUBLIC NUISANCE. Public nuisances shall include but not be limited to whatever
is forbidden by any provisions of this subchapter. No person shall commit,
create, or maintain any nuisance.
(1990 Code, § 103.001)  (Ord. 10a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Blighted or vacant structure, see §
91.004
§ 91.086  DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   No person shall maintain any structure which is unsafe or which is a menace
to the health, morals, or safety of the public.
(1990 Code, § 103.002)  (Ord. 10a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.087  DANGEROUS STRUCTURES; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The Council may, after notice to the owner and after holding a public
hearing thereon, condemn such structure by giving notice to the owner of the
land upon which such structure is located, specifying in what respects said
structure is a public nuisance, and requiring said owner to alter, repair, tear
down, or remove the same within such reasonable time, not exceeding 60 days, as
may be necessary to do or have done the work required by said notice. Said
notice may also provide a reasonable time within which such work shall be
commenced.
(1990 Code, § 103.003)  (Ord. 10a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.088  DANGEROUS STRUCTURES; ABATEMENT.
   If, at the expiration of any time limit in said notice, the owner has not
complied with the requirements thereof, the Mayor or his or her designated
representative shall carry out the requirements of said notice. The cost of
such abatement shall be charged against the premises and the owner thereof in
accordance with the provisions of §§
91.065 through
91.070.
(1990 Code, § 103.004)  (Ord. 10a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.089  DANGEROUS STRUCTURES; EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   The Mayor may abate any such public nuisance, if the public safety requires
immediate action, without preliminary order of the Council. Thereafter the cost
of abating such nuisance shall be charged against the premises and the owner
thereof in accordance with the provisions of §§
91.065 through
91.070.
(1990 Code, § 103.005)  (Ord. 10a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.090  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to have immediate effect within ten days after adoption
by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 103)  (Ord. 10a, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 91.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
91.020 through
91.023 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
(1990 Code, § 71.003)  (Ord. 68, passed 7-12-1988)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalk Maintenance
   
92.01   Duty of property owners to maintain abutting sidewalks; action by the
city upon failure of the owner to act
   
92.02   Effective date
Snow and Ice Removal From Sidewalks
   
92.15   Sidewalks to be cleared
   
92.16   Failure to clear
   
92.17   Effective date
Sidewalk Repair
   
92.30   Permit required
   
92.31   Application forms
   
92.32   Fees
   
92.33   Specifications
   
92.34   Inspection of work
   
92.35   Repair of sidewalk by owners; failure to repair
   
92.36   Effective date
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
§ 92.01  DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO MAINTAIN ABUTTING SIDEWALKS; ACTION BY THE
CITY UPON FAILURE OF THE OWNER TO ACT.
   (A)   No person shall permit any sidewalk which adjoins property owned by
him or her to fall into a state of disrepair or to be unsafe.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council or its appointed representative shall
determine that a sidewalk is unsafe for use, he, she, or it shall give notice
thereof to the owner of the abutting premises.
   (C)   In the event the owner fails to repair the sidewalk within the limit
set in the notice, the appointed representative shall report the fact to the
Council with the request that he or she be authorized to repair the sidewalk.
The appointed representative may dispense with the notice, time limit, the
report, and the request to the Council if, in his or her opinion, the unsafe
sidewalk condition requires immediate repair to assure public safety and to
prevent possibility of city liability for personal injury or property damage
because of the condition of such sidewalk.
   (D)   Upon receipt of any report of the failure of an owner to repair the
sidewalk within the time limited in the notice, the Council may determine to
repair such sidewalk and order the appointed representative to do all work
required to accomplish such end.
   (E)   The cost of repairs hereunder, if made by the city, shall be charged
against the premises abutting the sidewalk and the owner thereof in accordance
with the other provisions of this chapter.
(1990 Code, § 87.001)  (Ord. 15b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 87)  (Ord. 15b, passed 4-2-1973)
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 92.15  SIDEWALKS TO BE CLEARED.
   The occupant of every lot or parcel of land adjoining any sidewalk or the
owner of such lot or parcel of land, if not occupied, shall clear all ice and
snow from sidewalks adjoining such lot or parcel of land within the time herein
required. When any snow shall fall or drift upon any sidewalk, the owner or
occupant of the lot or of the parcel of land adjoining the sidewalk shall
remove such snow as shall have fallen or accumulated during the nighttime by
10:00 a.m.; snow falling or drifting during the day shall be removed before 10:
00 a.m. of the following day. When any ice forms on any sidewalk, the owner or
occupant of the lot or parcel of land adjoining such sidewalk shall, if
practicable, immediately remove the ice, and when immediate removal is
impracticable, shall spread sand, sifted coal ashes, salt, or other chemicals
produced for the purpose of snow/ice removal upon the ice in such a manner and
in such a quantity as to prevent the sidewalk from being slippery and dangerous
to pedestrians, and shall remove the ice as soon thereafter as practicable.
Under no circumstances shall the snow or ice removed from the sidewalk be
placed on roadways and/or shoulders as defined or hereafter defined in the
Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 257.1 through 257.923.
(1990 Code, § 88.001)  (Ord. 15a, passed 4-2-1973; Ord. passed 10-14-2003) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16  FAILURE TO CLEAR.
   If any occupant or owner neglects or fails to clear ice or snow from the
sidewalk adjoining the lot or parcel of land within the time limited and herein
required or shall otherwise permit ice or snow to accumulate on such sidewalk,
he or she shall be guilty of a violation of this code and, in addition, the
Superintendent of Public Works may have the accumulated ice or snow cleared and
the expense of removal shall become a debt to the city from the occupant or
owner of such lot or parcel of land, and may be collected as a single lot
assessment. The charges for such removal shall be the cost of removal,
including but not being limited to a minimum of one hour equipment rental rate
for any and all equipment used pursuant to the State Department of
Transportation rental rate schedule as issued in January of that year and shall
include reimbursement to the city for the wages of all city employees involved
in the removal of the snow or ice plus an administrative charge equal to 20% of
the cost of removal. Charges for snow and ice removal shall be made each time
the city is forced to remove the ice or snow in compliance with this
subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 88.002)  (Ord. 15a, passed 4-2-1973; Ord. passed 10-14-2003) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.17  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on November 15, 2003, said date being at
least ten days after the date on which it has been published in a newspaper or
municipal newsletter in general circulation within the city.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003)
SIDEWALK REPAIR
§ 92.30  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No public sidewalk shall be repaired or installed by any person without
first obtaining a written permit from the city.
(1990 Code, § 90.001)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.31  APPLICATION FORMS.
   Application for a sidewalk repair or installation permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the city.
(1990 Code, § 90.002)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 92.32  FEES.
   There will be no charge for such a permit unless it is proposed to make a
change in the grade, location or dimensions of the sidewalk.
(1990 Code, § 90.003)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 92.33  SPECIFICATIONS.
   All streets and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformance with
specifications laid down or approved.
(1990 Code, § 90.004)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 92.34  INSPECTION OF WORK.
   All work shall be subject to inspection by the city, during construction and
upon completion. The Street and Sidewalk Inspector shall be notified by the
permittee after forms are set, and no concrete shall be poured or further
construction started until approved by the Inspector.
(1990 Code, § 90.005)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 92.35  REPAIR OF SIDEWALK BY OWNERS; FAILURE TO REPAIR.
   All owners or agents of owners with property abutting and fronting upon any
plaza, street, or alley within the corporate limits of the city are required to
keep the public sidewalks immediately abutting their property in good order and
repair. Each such owner shall be liable to the city for all losses to the city
or recoveries from the city for damages to person or property of others caused
by his or her failure or that of his or her agents to repair and keep in good
order and reasonably safe condition all such sidewalks abutting and fronting
his or her property upon any plaza, street, or alley within the corporate
limits of the city. The city may, at its discretion, through the Director of
Public Works, notify such owner that repairs are necessary to put such sidewalk
in good order and such owner shall, within ten days after such notification,
under the supervision of the Director of Public Works, complete such repairs,
as specified in such notice. If the person fails to make the required repairs,
the city may repair same and the owner shall be liable to the city for the cost
of the repairs. If the cost of repairs has not been paid in full to the city
the sum of the unpaid repairs shall be assessed against the real estate in the
same manner and to the extent as property taxes.
(1990 Code, § 90.006)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)
§ 92.36  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall go into effect on October 8, 1995.
(1990 Code, § 90.007)  (Ord. 15c, passed 9-21-1995)
CHAPTER 93:  MUNICIPAL TREES
Section
   
93.01   Short title
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Regulation generally
   
93.04   Permits generally
   
93.05   Permit required; planting
   
93.06   Permit required; maintenance
   
93.07   Conditional permit; removal of tree or shrub
   
93.08   Loss of public trees; value recovery
   
93.09   Public nuisance
   
93.10   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance and hazard abatement, see §§
91.065 through
91.070
§ 93.01  SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known and cited as the
Municipal Tree Ordinance of the city.
(1990 Code, Part 89)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 93.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural include the singular, and words
in the singular include the plural. The word “shall” is mandatory and not
merely directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY FORESTRY CHAIRPERSON.  The designated official of the City of
Reading, lying within the County of Hillsdale, State of Michigan, assigned to
carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
      LARGE TREES.  Those attaining a height of 45 feet or more.
      MEDIUM TREES.  Those attaining a height of 30 to 45 feet.
      MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Reading, lying within the County of Hillsdale,
State of Michigan.
      PARK.  Includes all public parks having individual names.
      PARKWAY.  The part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
      PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
      PLANTS.  Includes all non-woody vegetation now or hereafter growing on
any public street, highway, alley, or public place.
      PROPERTY LINE.  The outer edge of a street or highway and does not
pertain to the traveled pavement surface in itself.
      PROPERTY OWNER.  The person owning such property as shown by the records
on file at the County Register of Deeds office.
      PUBLIC PLACES.  Includes all other grounds owned by the City of Reading,
lying within the County of Hillsdale, State of Michigan, or under its control
or supervision whether owned, leased, or under contract of the city.
      PUBLIC TREES.  Includes all trees now or thereafter growing on any street
or any public area where otherwise indicated.
      SMALL TREES.  Those attaining a height of 20 to 30 feet.
      STREET-HIGHWAY.  Includes all land lying between the so-called property
lines on either side of all public streets, roads, boulevards, alleys, or parts
thereof.
      STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire width of every public way or right-of-way
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right,
for purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      TREES AND SHRUBS.  Includes all woody vegetation now or hereafter growing
on any public street, highway, alley, or public place.
(1990 Code, Part 89)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 93.03  REGULATION GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall have full power and authority over all trees, plants,
and shrubs planted or hereafter planted in the streets, parks, and public
places of the city. The maintenance of such trees, plants, and shrubs shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter and such rules and regulations as the
City Council may from time to time hereafter adopt, and as it deems necessary
to properly control and regulate the planting, maintenance, protection, and
removal of trees, plants, and shrubs on public areas of the city.
(1990 Code, § 89.001)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 93.04  PERMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to perform or undertake, or cause to be
performed or undertaken, any work or activity covered by and included within
this chapter without first filing an application for and procuring a permit
from the City Forestry Chairperson or his or her designated agent.
   (B)   Every permit issued shall specifically describe the location and
nature of the work or other activity to be performed under it and shall contain
such other information as may be required by such regulations as may be
hereafter adopted from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   Any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and in
accordance with applicable regulations adopted by the City Council shall
automatically become null and void upon expiration of the permit period or at
any time the permit holder violates the provisions of this chapter, the permit,
or the regulations applicable thereto.
   (D)   No charge shall be made for the issuance of any permit unless it is
determined necessary by the City Forestry Chairperson, or such person as he or
she may designate, to assign an inspector to supervise the work or other
activity to be performed under the permit to be issued. In the event an
inspector is determined to be necessary, the department shall determine the
charge for such inspection services on an actual cost basis, and such actual
cost shall be paid by the person seeking the permit as a prerequisite to its
issuance.
   (E)   Notice of commencement and completion of work or other activity
authorized by the permit shall be made to the City Forestry Chairperson as
stated on the permit issued.
(1990 Code, § 89.002)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05  PERMIT REQUIRED; PLANTING.
   (A)   No trees, plants, or shrubs shall be planted in any of the streets,
highways, parks, or other public areas in the city unless and until the City
Forestry Chairperson shall have first approved the kind, size, and variety of
the same, designated the location thereof, and granted a permit for the
planting of same.
   (B)   Any trees, plants, or shrubs authorized for planting within the
triangle formed by the intersection of right-of-way lines and extending for a
distance of 25 feet each way from the intersection on any corner within the
city shall not be permitted to grow to a height of more than three feet above
the surface of the intersecting roadways.
   (C)   The City Forestry Chairperson shall have the authority to plant trees,
plants, or shrubs in any public street, highway, park, or other public areas in
the city which he or she, in his or her sole discretion, deems adequate for his
or her purpose.
(1990 Code, § 89.003)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 93.06  PERMIT REQUIRED; MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall hereafter move, spray, brace, trim, do surgery work, or cut
above or below ground any branch or root therefrom or otherwise disturb any
tree, plant, or shrub in any highway, park, or public place of the city, nor
cause such acts to be done by others without first obtaining a written permit
from the City Forestry Chairperson who shall issue the permit if, in his or her
judgment, the proposed work is necessary and the proposed method of workmanship
thereof is of a satisfactory nature. The person receiving such permit shall
abide by the specifications and standards of practice in this chapter and on
any regulation as may be hereafter from time to time adopted by the City
Council, and shall as a condition of such permit agree to hold the city
harmless from any and all liability which might result from the work or
activity authorized. In addition, the City Forestry Chairperson may require the
person receiving such permit to provide such insurance coverage and in such
amounts as he or she deems necessary to protect the interest of the city.
(1990 Code, § 89.004)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07  CONDITIONAL PERMIT; REMOVAL OF TREE OR SHRUB.
   As a condition to any permit issued for the removal of any tree or shrub,
the City Forestry Chairperson may require that the permit holder plant, at his
or her sole expense, a tree or shrub designated by the City Forestry
Chairperson in place of the one removed at the removal site or at any alternate
site located in a public area immediately adjoining the permit holder’s
property.
(1990 Code, § 89.005)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 93.08  LOSS OF PUBLIC TREES; VALUE RECOVERY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Forestry Chairperson shall determine that a tree in
any street, park, or public place has been impaired, damaged, broken, severed,
destroyed, or removed in a manner which will cause immediate or future removal
of the tree which is deemed premature and untimely based on the condition,
vigor, location, kind, and age of the tree, and the City Forestry Chairperson
shall have knowledge of the person causing the damage, then the City Forestry
Chairperson shall assess against the responsible person the value of the tree
as determined by use of the Michigan Forestry and Parks Association Shade Tree
Evaluation Chart.
   (B)   This shall not construe that the value received by the city shall be
less than the cost of the removal of the damaged tree and replacement of a
comparable tree as determined by the City Forestry Chairperson of not less than
three-inch trunk diameter measured at a height of six inches above the ground,
nor shall the City Forestry Chairperson be restricted in his or her choice of
the replacement planting site.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department having knowledge of such
damage or persons causing damage to immediately report same to the City
Forestry Chairperson for investigation.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the City Forestry Chairperson to notify the
City Manager and City Attorney of any of the tree damage which shall dictate
value recovery to the city.
   (E)   The full amount of the value recovered for the damaged tree shall be
conveyed to the City Forestry Chairperson for future tree planting purposes
notwithstanding the deduction of the removal cost of the damaged tree and
replacement of the tree.
   (F)   The City Forestry Chairperson shall determine the time of the removal
of the damaged tree, but it shall not be required that all the damaged trees
must be immediately removed if found to be in safe condition in order for value
recovery to take place.
(1990 Code, § 89.006)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.09  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub or parts thereof growing upon private property but
overhanging or interfering with the use of any street, park, public
improvement, or public place of the city that in the opinion of the City
Forestry Chairperson endangers the life, health, safety, or property of the
public shall be declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any tree growing on private property within the city afflicted with
any dangerous and infectious insect infestation or tree disease shall be
declared a public nuisance.
   (C)   Any such trees located in streets, parks, or public places shall be
removed at city expense and under the direction of the City Forestry
Chairperson.
   (D)   Whenever any public nuisance exists, contrary to the provisions of the
sections in this chapter, the City Forestry Chairperson or his or her
authorized agent shall give written notice to the owner or his or her agent or
the occupant of the property, describing the tree, its location, and the nature
of the nuisance, and ordering the owner, agent, or occupant to take such
measures as may be reasonably necessary to correct or cease such nuisance,
specifying the measures required to be taken.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to permit, cause, or suffer the
existence of a public nuisance from and after 30 days following the date of the
notice provided for.
   (F)   In any case the notice given shall not be complied with, the City
Forestry Chairperson is authorized and empowered to order the removal or
abatement of the public nuisance and, upon failure of the property owner to
comply with such order in accordance with its terms, shall have the authority
to make application to any court of competent jurisdiction for an order
requiring the property owner and/or occupant thereof to permit the City
Forestry Chairperson or those designated by him or her to enter upon such
private property for the purpose of removing or abating the public nuisance,
and further requiring such property owner and/or occupant to cease and desist
from interfering with such removal or abatement.
   (G)   Any work contracted by the City Forestry Chairperson for the removal
or abatement of public nuisances shall be submitted for bids and approved by
the City Council.
   (H)   Upon completion of the abatement or removal of the public nuisance,
the City Forestry Chairperson shall certify to the cost of the removal of the
public nuisance. The owner or other persons to whom the notice was directed
shall be notified by mail of the removal or abatement, the cost incurred for
such work, and a statement that the cost incurred will be assessed against the
owner’s property at a regular meeting of Council to be held not sooner than 30
days after the date of notice.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the property or other person to
whom notice was directed to pay the cost of such removal within 30 days after
the date of mailing of the notice of completion, and in case of his or her
failure to do so, the city shall have the right to make assessment by ordinance
against any property for the purpose of collection in the same manner as
general taxes are collected.
(1990 Code, § 89.007)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
§ 93.10  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter shall be November 21, 1988.
(1990 Code, Part 89)  (Ord. 69, passed 11-9-1988)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   In general; effective date
   
94.02   Fire prevention
   
94.03   Hotels, rooming houses, and motels
   
94.04   Explosives
Charges for Fire Protection
   
94.15   Policy and purpose
   
94.16   Impositions
   
94.17   Fee schedule
   
94.18   Charges for services
   
94.19   Disposition of funds
   
94.20   Insurance coverage
   
94.21   Service not to be refused for non-payment
   
94.22   Effective date
Burning of Refuse in Open Fires
   
94.35   Rules for burning
   
94.36   Nuisance
   
94.37   Open fire in alley
   
94.38   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous chemicals, see
Chapter 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  IN GENERAL; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   False fire alarms; interference with Fire Department equipment.  No
person shall turn in, sound, or cause to be communicated to the Fire Department
a false alarm of fire; or molest any fire fighting apparatus or equipment, or
anything pertaining to the fire alarm system; or make, or have in his or her
possession any impression or duplicate of any key belonging to the Fire
Department, without the express permission of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Obstruction of fire plugs.  No person shall place any building
material or any other obstruction whatever, nor shall any person responsible
for such material or obstruction permit the obstruction to remain within 15
feet of any fire hydrant or fire plug.
   (C)   Opening fire plugs.  No person, except authorized employees of the
city, shall use any fire plug, except in case of emergency, without first
securing permission from the City Council or its authorized representative for
such use, and by paying or agreeing to pay for the water to be used. In no case
shall any wrench or tool be used on any fire plug other than a regulation Fire
Department hydrant wrench.
   (D)   Authority of the Council to permit public displays of fireworks.  The
Council may grant permission, upon application in writing, for the public
display of fireworks to any association or group of individuals.
(1990 Code, Part 100) 
   (E)   Effective date.  This chapter is to take effect ten days after
adoption by the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 100.001) 
(Ord. 7a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02  FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Fire Prevention Code adopted; scope.  There is hereby adopted by the
city, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous
to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the
Fire Prevention Code, Abbreviated Edition, recommended by the American
Insurance Association, being particularly the 1970 edition thereof and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended in this section, of which code not less than three copies
have been and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk Treasurer. The Fire
Prevention Code is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city.
   (B)   Chief of the Fire Department to enforce Fire Prevention Code.  The
Fire Prevention Code adopted in this section shall be enforced by the Chief of
the Fire Department.
   (C)   “Municipality” as used in Fire Prevention Code defined.  Wherever the
word, “Municipality” is used in the Fire Prevention Code adopted in this
section, it shall mean the “City of Reading.”
   (D)   Duration of permits issued under the Fire Prevention Code.  All
permits issued under the Fire Prevention Code of the city are valid for a
period of one year, unless revoked due to changes or conditions constituting a
hazard.
   (E)   Modification of requirements of Fire Prevention Code.  The Chief of
the Fire Department shall have the power to modify any of the provisions of the
Fire Prevention Code adopted in this section upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee of property affected by the Fire Prevention Code, or his or her
duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the Fire Prevention Code, provided that the
spirit of the Fire Prevention Code shall be observed, the public safety
secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of the modification when
granted or allowed, and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department
thereon, shall be entered upon the records of the Department and a signed copy
shall be furnished the applicant.
   (F)   Appeals from administrative actions of the Chief of the Fire
Department.  Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for under the Fire Prevention
Code, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Fire Prevention Code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Council within 30 days from
the date of the decision appealed.
   (G)   Observance of state fire prevention laws.  No person shall violate any
law of the state, nor any rule or regulation adopted by any duly authorized
agency of the state pertaining to fire, fire hazards, fire prevention, or fire
waste.
   (H)   Flammable liquids regulations adopted.  There are hereby adopted by
reference those regulations promulgated by the State Police, Fire Marshal
Division, contained in that publication entitled Flammable Liquids Regulations,
being particularly the 1963 edition thereof; which regulation shall be in full
force and effect in the city as if set out at length in this division.
   (I)   Liquefied petroleum gas regulations adopted.  There are hereby adopted
by reference as regulations covering the use and storage of liquefied petroleum
gas in the city, those regulations promulgated by the State Police, Fire
Marshal Division, and entitled Liquefied Petroleum Gases Regulations, effective
May 13, 1960; which regulations shall have such force and effect as if set out
at length in this division (I).
   (J)   Inspections; notice of violation.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department is hereby empowered to enter at
any and all reasonable times upon and into any premises, building, or structure
for the purpose of examining and inspecting the same, to ascertain the
condition thereof with regard to fire hazards and the condition, size,
arrangement, and efficiency of any and all appliances for fire fighting.
      (2)   If an inspection made pursuant to division (J)(1) above shall
disclose any fire hazard or any deficiency in fire fighting appliances, the
Fire Chief shall order the condition remedied.
      (3)   The Chief of the Fire Department is empowered to appoint members of
the regular personnel of the Fire Department to make the inspection
hereinbefore provided for, who shall report in writing the results of the
inspections to the Chief of the Fire Department and who are hereby empowered to
make such written order in respect to the conditions found by them upon
inspection as is hereby authorized to be made by the Chief of the Fire
Department; the order shall be complied with forthwith. Should any person
receiving such order consider himself or herself aggrieved thereby, he or she
may, within 24 hours after the receipt of the order, appeal to the Chief of the
Fire Department who shall thereupon make such written order in the premises as
he or she may deem right and reasonable.
      (4)   No person shall fail to comply immediately with any order of the
Chief of the Fire Department, or of his or her authorized representative, which
orders are issued pursuant to this section.
   (K)   Obstruction of fire exits.
      (1)   No obstruction shall be placed or permitted to remain in the way
of, or upon, any fire escape, balcony, or ladder intended as a means of escape
from fire.
      (2)   No flammable material shall be placed or permitted to remain under
or at the bottom of any stairway, elevator, or other part of any building used
for the purpose of entering, leaving, or going from place to place within such
building.
      (3)   No obstruction shall be placed or permitted to remain in hallways
of multiple dwellings.
      (4)   No person shall obstruct or permit to be obstructed any door,
aisle, or passageway of any theater, church, or other place of public
assemblage with any furniture or article.
      (5)   No person shall sit or stand in any such place of assemblage in any
aisle, or in any exit or passage required for the safe exit of the assemblage.
      (6)   Clear passage from all exits and on sidewalks must be maintained
outside of all such places of public assemblage.
      (7)   No aisle, passageway, or stairway in any store shall be obstructed
with tables, showcases, or other obstructions during hours said store is open
to the public, or at any other time, unless an employee is actually present in
such store.
   (L)   Accumulations of combustible materials.
      (1)   No person owning or being responsible for any premises shall permit
any waste paper, ashes, oil, rags, waste rags, excelsior, cellophane or other
flammable plastic material, tobacco, smoking wastes, or any material of a
similar nature to accumulate thereon, unless contained in covered fireproof
receptacles.
      (2)   No person owning or being responsible for any structure shall
permit any waste paper, ashes, oil, rags, waste rags, excelsior, cellophane or
other flammable plastic material, tobacco, smoking wastes, or any material of a
similar nature to accumulate therein.
   (M)   Combustible materials in proximity to buildings; removal by the city.
      (1)   No fallen timber, wooden posts or poles, logs, brush bark, or
sawdust piles, stubs, or stumps, or other flammable or combustible material or
substance, likely to endanger the safety of any building, or to increase the
speed of fire, shall be permitted upon any lot within 150 feet of any building
thereon or upon any adjacent lot.
      (2)   Whenever the Chief of Police, the City Engineer, or the Chief of
the Fire Department shall find any violation of division (M)(1) above he or she
shall give written notice to the owner of the lot that such lot shall be
cleared within five days. If the notice is not complied with within five days,
or the owner of the said lot cannot be found within such time, the city may
clear or cause to be cleared said lot at the expense of the owner thereof, and
the expense of clearing, together with any fees or fines authorized by this
code, shall be and remain a special assessment upon the lot, to be collected in
the same manner as other special assessments are collected under this code.
   (N)   Dry cleaners and dyers.
      (1)   No person shall violate any provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 29.201
through 29.330 et seq.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department and his or her authorized
representatives shall have authority to enter every establishment where
commercial dry cleaning or dry dyeing or both are done, at all reasonable
times, for the purpose of inspecting the premises to determine whether it is
being operated in accordance with the terms of this section.
   (O)   Fire in streets.  No person shall kindle fire in or upon any paved
street or alley.
   (P)   Fires on private property.  No person shall kindle any bonfire on any
private property.
(1990 Code, § 100.002)  (Ord. 7a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  HOTELS, ROOMING HOUSES, AND MOTELS.
   (A)   Burning premises.  No person shall carelessly, recklessly, or
negligently set fire to any hotel, rooming house, lodging house, motel, or any
place of public abode, or to any bedding, furniture, curtains, drapes, or other
furnishings therein so as to endanger life or property in any way.
   (B)   Smoking in bed; notice.
      (1)   No person shall smoke or have any lighted cigarette, pipe, or
cigar, while such person is in or upon any bed in any hotel, rooming house, or
motel.
      (2)   In each sleeping room of all motels, hotels, rooming houses,
lodging houses, and other places of public abode, a plainly written notice
shall be posted in a conspicuous place as notice of the provisions of division
(B)(1) above.
(1990 Code, § 100.003)  (Ord. 7a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04  EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Conformance with state law.  No person shall violate any law of the
state, nor any rule or regulation adopted by any duly authorized agency of the
state, pertaining to explosives.
   (B)   Blasting permit.  No person shall blast or carry on any blasting
operation without first having obtained a written permit therefor from the City
Council or its authorized representative. Before any such permit is issued, the
applicant therefor shall file with the City Clerk Treasurer a bond or policy of
insurance in the amount specified by the City Council or its authorized
representative, as commensurate with the risk of damage from injury or death to
persons, or damage to property arising out of the proposed blasting operations,
which shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney. The bond shall be
conditioned to save harmless the city and the members of the public from death
to or injury of persons or damage to property resulting from such blasting.
   (C)   Regulations adopted.  There are hereby adopted by reference those
regulations promulgated by the State Police, Fire Marshal Division, and
entitled Regulations for Storage and Handling of Explosives, being particularly
the October 19, 1953, revision; such regulations shall be in full force and
effect as if set out at length in this division (C).
(1990 Code, § 100.004)  (Ord. 7a, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHARGES FOR FIRE PROTECTION
§ 94.15  POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the continuing increase in the costs of
providing adequate fire protection and other public safety services to the city
has created a need for additional funds to provide these services. The
following provisions are authorized, and it is further declared that the fees
are levied solely for the purposes of providing revenue to help defray the
costs of the services covered by the fees.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.16  IMPOSITIONS.
   The Fire Chief and/or any other person designated by Council shall collect
fees as follows:
   (A)   Stand-by charges.  The Fire Chief or other designated individual shall
collect a stand-by fee for costs incurred by the city that are necessitated by
a need for general public safety. This fee shall be based on the schedule
adopted pursuant to §
94.17; and
   (B)   User’s fee.  The Fire Chief or other designated individual shall
collect a fee based on costs incurred by the city for any service performed by
the Fire Department where a fire requires a call for additional fire personnel
above the normal manning.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.17  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fees as provided under this chapter shall be based on costs and the Fire
Chief shall annually present to the City Council for approval, a fee schedule
based on the approved Fire Department budget. The fee schedule will encompass
manpower, equipment, material, and services rendered. Said schedule shall be in
effect after its adoption in the form of an ordinance or by resolution.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.18  CHARGES FOR SERVICES.
   The above fees shall be binding upon all persons receiving such services as
well as their successors in interest, assigns, estates, and heirs.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.19  DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys received under the provisions of this chapter shall be placed in
an account set up for the express purpose of funding expenses necessary to
furnish fire protection, emergency services, and other public safety services
by the city.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.20  INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   In the event person or property receiving such services shall have insurance
in place, the city, if it so chooses, may bill the insurance company for the
costs of the services directly.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.21  SERVICE NOT TO BE REFUSED FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall authorize any city department or city
personnel to refuse or delay any service to any person, firm, or corporation
that has not paid for services or that owes for previous services or owes any
money to the city.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
§ 94.22  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on August 1, 1999, after publication
pursuant to Charter.
(Ord. 81, passed 7-13-1999)
BURNING OF REFUSE IN OPEN FIRES
§ 94.35  RULES FOR BURNING.
   Incineration of waste materials, refuse, leaves, paper, and other
combustible debris outside of a building or structure within the city limits
shall be permitted if done in accordance with the following rules.
   (A)   No burning may be done within 15 feet of an existing building nor upon
paved portions of any street.
   (B)   No burning shall be done prior to 7:00 a.m. nor must any be continued
after 8:00 p.m. on any day.
   (C)   No burning shall be done unless under the charge or supervision of a
person of mature years and discretion.
   (D)   No burning shall be done at any time or place when wind conditions
will create or are apt to create a nuisance to anyone or the property of anyone
in the vicinity thereof, or be a danger to the property of any person in the
vicinity thereof.
(1990 Code, § 101.001)  (Ord. 7b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.36  NUISANCE.
   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful for any person to burn or allow to be
burned at any time or place any material of any kind which exudes obnoxious
odors or when such fire emits sparks or burning embers upon adjoining,
adjacent, neighboring, or nearby premises.
(1990 Code, § 101.002)  (Ord. 7b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.37  OPEN FIRE IN ALLEY.
   No open fire shall be started in any alley in the city unless such refuse or
rubbish to be burned shall be placed in a receptacle constructed of brick,
cement, or iron or in a drum so constructed as to prevent the danger of the
spread of fire.
(1990 Code, § 101.003)  (Ord. 7b, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.38  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 101)  (Ord. 7b, passed 4-2-1973)
CHAPTER 95:  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
Hazardous Chemicals; Storage and Handling
   
95.01   Storage and handling of hazardous chemicals
   
95.02   Effective date
Cost Recovery; Hazardous Waste Cleanup
   
95.15   Purpose
   
95.16   Definitions
   
95.17   Charges imposed upon responsible party
   
95.18   Billing procedures
   
95.19   Other remedies
   
95.20   Severability
   
95.21   Effective date
HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS; STORAGE AND HANDLING
§ 95.01  STORAGE AND HANDLING OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS.
   No person shall store chemicals or chemical compounds which are of a
corrosive or poisonous nature, or which materially increase the fire hazard,
except as follows.
   (A)   Where kept in containers or packages usual to the retail trade, no
general restriction shall apply other than that shelving shall be substantial
and storage shall be neat and orderly, and that chemicals which, when combined,
constitute fire, explosion, or health hazards, shall be kept safely separated.
   (B)   Hazardous chemicals and materials of an oxidizing nature, including
but not limited to nitrates and chlorates, when kept in warehouses, factories,
or wholesale stores, shall be stored in dry places, and the Chief of the Fire
Department may require a separate room or building when the quantity stored
constitutes a material hazard.
   (C)   Bulk storage of two or more carboys of hazardous acid shall be outside
in a yard or an enclosure, or properly protected in special rooms provided with
suitable containers.
(1990 Code, § 102.001)  (Ord. 7c, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 95.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 102)  (Ord. 7c, passed 4-2-1973)
COST RECOVERY; HAZARDOUS WASTE CLEANUP
§ 95.15  PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the Reading Community Fire Department from incurring
extraordinary expenses resulting from the utilization of Community Fire
Department resources to respond to an incident involving hazardous material,
the Reading City Council and the Reading Township Board authorizes the
imposition of charges to recover reasonable and actual costs incurred by the
Community Fire Department in responding to calls for assistance in connection
with a hazardous materials release.
(1990 Code, § 104.001)  (Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 95.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Includes but is not limited to a chemical that is a
combustible liquid, a flammable gas, explosive, an organic peroxide, an
oxidizer, pyrophoric, unstable reactive or water reactive.
(1990 Code, § 104.002)
   RELEASE.  Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment.
(1990 Code, § 104.003)
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity,
or any other legal entity that is responsible for a release of hazardous
material, either actual or threatened, or is an owner, tenant, occupant, or
party in control of property onto which or from which hazardous materials
release.
(1990 Code, § 104.004)
(Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 95.17  CHARGES IMPOSED UPON RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   Where the Community Fire Department responds to a call for assistance in
connection with a hazardous material release, actual costs incurred by the Fire
Department responding to such a call shall be imposed upon responsible parties,
including but not limited to:
   (A)   A charge of $100 per hour, or fraction thereof, for each pumper
required, in the opinion of the officer in command, to stand by at the
hazardous materials incident. For each hour, or fraction thereof, that the
pumps are activated, an additional sum of $100 per hour shall be charged;
   (B)   A charge of $100 per hour, or fraction thereof, for each water tender
required, in the opinion of the officer in command, to be utilized in
responding to a hazardous materials incident;
   (C)   A charge of $50 per hour, or fraction thereof, for each additional
Community Fire Department owned vehicle required, in the opinion of the officer
in command, to be utilized in responding to the hazardous materials incident;
   (D)   All personnel-related costs incurred by the Community Fire Department
as a result of responding to the hazardous materials incident. Such costs may
include but are not limited to wages, salaries and fringe benefits and
insurance for full-time and part-time fire fighters; overtime pay and related
fringe benefit costs for hourly employees, and fire run fees paid to on-call
fire fighters. Such personnel-related charges shall commence after the first
hour that the Fire Department has responded to the hazardous materials incident
and shall continue until all Fire Department personnel have concluded hazardous
materials incident-related responsibilities;
   (E)   Other expenses incurred by the Community Fire Department in responding
to the hazardous materials incident, including but not limited to rental or
purchase of machinery, equipment, labor, consultants, legal and engineering
fees, and the replacement costs related to disposable personal protective
equipment, extinguishing agents, supplies, water purchased from municipal water
systems, and meals and refreshments for personnel while responding to the
hazardous materials incident;
   (F)   Charges to the Community Fire Department imposed by any local, state,
or federal government entities related to the hazardous materials incident; and
   (G)   Costs incurred in accounting for all hazardous material incident-
related expenditures, including billing and collection costs.
(1990 Code, § 104.005)  (Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 95.18  BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Following the conclusion of the hazardous materials incident, the Fire
Chief shall submit a detailed listing of all known expenses to the Fire
Department Treasurer, who shall prepare an invoice to the responsible party for
payment. The Treasurer’s invoice shall demand full payment within 30 days of
receipt of the bill. Any additional expenses that become known to the Community
Fire Department Fire Chief following the transmittal of the bill to the
responsible party shall be billed in the same manner on a subsequent bill to
the response party.
   (B)   For any amounts due that remain unpaid after 30 days, the Community
Fire Department shall impose a late charge of 1% per month or fraction thereof.
(1990 Code, § 104.006)  (Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 95.19  OTHER REMEDIES.
   The Community Fire Department may pursue any other remedy or may institute
any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to
collect charges imposed under this chapter. The recovery of charges imposed
under this chapter does not limit the liability of responsible parties under
local ordinance or state or federal law, rule, or regulation.
(1990 Code, § 104.007)  (Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 95.20  SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision or part of the within ordinance be declared by any
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the same shall
not affect the validity or enforceability of the balance of this chapter which
shall remain in full force and effect.
(1990 Code, § 104.008)  (Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 95.21  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately. All ordinances in conflict are
hereby repealed.
(1990 Code, § 104.009)  (Ord. 80, passed 1-14-1997)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES OR BUSINESSES
      
112.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
113.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
114.   CABLE TV RATES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110:  BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Recreational Facilities
   
110.01   Short title and citation
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Recreational facility operating license
   
110.04   License application, contents, fee; change of management
   
110.05   Inspection of premises
   
110.06   Denial of license
   
110.07   Granting of license
   
110.08   License fees
   
110.09   License renewal; transferability
   
110.10   License revocation
   
110.11   Conduct on premises
   
110.12   Hours
   
110.13   Inspections
   
110.14   Waiver of license fee for charitable organization
   
110.15   Savings clause
   
110.16   Severability
   
110.17   Section headings
   
110.18   Effective date
Car Washes and Laundromats
   
110.30   Compliance
   
110.31   Duty of owner or operator
   
110.32   Operation between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   
110.33   Definitions
   
110.34   Effective date
Precious Metal and Gem Dealers Registration
   
110.45   Certificate of registration fee
   
110.46   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 110.01  SHORT TITLE AND CITATION.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Reading
Recreational Facilities Ordinance.
(1990 Code, § 10.001)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAME ROOM.  Any room in the building that contains a card table or tables
for the use of patrons, or a room or building that contains mechanical
amusement devices.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE.  Any machine which upon insertion of a coin,
slug, token, plate disc, or key may be operated by the public, generally, for
use as a game, entertainment, or amusement, whether or not registering a score.
It shall include such devices as marble machines, pinball machines, skill ball
machine, mechanical grab machines, nickelodeons, music boxes, and all games,
operations, or transactions similar thereto by whatever name they may be known.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, and any other group acting as a unit.
   PREMISES.  Any building or property where a recreational facility is located
and any adjacent property under the ownership or control of a recreational
facility proprietor, lessee, manager, or employee.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY.  Any public dance hall, billiard or pool room, game
room, amusement park, amusement place, temporary or permanent carnival, or
recreational park.
(1990 Code, § 10.002)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.03  RECREATIONAL FACILITY OPERATING LICENSE.
   No person shall establish, maintain, or conduct a recreational facility
within the city without first obtaining a license to operate such facility from
the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 10.003)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  LICENSE APPLICATION, CONTENTS, FEE; CHANGE OF MANAGEMENT.
   Any person desiring to open or establish a recreational facility shall first
make application therefor to the City Clerk Treasurer, setting forth in such
application his or her age, correct name, post office address and residence,
the length of time he or she has resided within this state, and where, and his
or her places of residence for the past five years immediately before the time
of such application; whether or not he or she has ever been convicted of any
crime involving moral turpitude; and giving references in such application to
at least five reputable citizens of such community wherein he or she has last
resided within this state, and the written recommendations of at least two such
citizens of such community respecting his or her moral character. Every such
application shall be accompanied by a fee as hereafter specified payable to the
City Treasurer for use of the city upon issuing of license to the applicant;
and the applicant shall specify in such application the class of business and
the exact location of the place thereof for which he or she requests a permit.
In case the applicant for such license is a corporation authorized to do
business in this state, the application shall be made by the agent of such
corporation who will have principal charge of the place proposed to be
established, and such application shall contain all of the statements and
furnish all the facts and recommendations with respect to such agent as are
required in the case of a private individual herein. A permit to a corporation
shall be revocable upon the occurrence of change in the agent so managing such
place, and a new permit may be required by the City Council of the city before
any new agent shall take charge of such place for such corporation. In case of
a partnership, each active partner in such business shall join in the
application for such permit, and shall furnish all of the information and
recommendations required of an individual applicant. An applicant for
recreational facilities license shall be provided with a copy of this
subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 10.004)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.05  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Before a recreational facility license shall be issued, investigation
of the applicant and inspection of the premises shall be made by the City
Building Department, Fire Department, Police Department, and such other city
departments or agencies as may be deemed necessary to determine whether the
applicant and premises fully comply with all pertinent ordinances and
regulations. Before the Building Department approves a license application, it
shall determine that the construction of the building or other structure is in
full compliance with the Building Code and other pertinent ordinances and
regulations.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to make the premises
in question available for inspection in a timely manner so as to permit full
inspection during the normal working hours of the investigating city
departments.
(1990 Code, § 10.005)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.06  DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued where the applicant is under 18 years of age or
has been convicted of a crime involving a controlled substance, alcohol,
gambling, minors, or a crime involving moral turpitude.
(1990 Code, § 10.006)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.07  GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Generally.  The City Council upon receiving such application, if
presented in due form, shall pass upon the same at its next regular meeting or
any adjournment thereof, and, if satisfied that such applicant possesses the
qualifications herein prescribed and said premises conform to the requirements
hereof, shall grant license to the applicant for the particular premises. All
such licenses shall be in a form as the City Council may prescribe and shall
contain the name, address, place of business, and the date of expiration of
said license and shall be authenticated by the signature of the City Clerk
Treasurer.
   (B)   Insurance policy required.
      (1)   No license shall be issued until the applicant therefor shall
obtain and file with the city a policy of liability insurance issued by a
responsible insurance company authorized to do business in this state providing
insurance coverage insuring the applicant against liability for personal injury
or injuries to persons while upon the premises for which a license is applied
for. Such policy of insurance shall:
         (a)   Be in the minimum amount of $300,000 for injury to, or death of,
one person, and $1,000,000 for injury to, or death of, more than one person
resulting from a single accident;
         (b)   Provide for continuing liability thereunder to the full amount
thereof, notwithstanding any recovery thereon, and that the insolvency or
bankruptcy of the insured shall not release the company; and
         (c)   Provide that it shall not be canceled, surrendered, or revoked
by either party except after ten days’ written notice to the city furnished by
the insurance company issuing the policy.
      (2)   The cancellation, surrender, or other termination of any insurance
policy issued and filed with the city in compliance with this section shall
automatically terminate the license covered by such insurance policy unless
another policy complying with this section shall be in effect and deposited
with the city prior to the time of such cancellation or termination.
      (3)   No person shall operate, or cause or permit to be operated, any
recreational facility in the city without having fully complied with the terms
of this section.
   (C)   Issuance of licenses.  Licenses granted by the City Council shall be
promptly issued by the City Clerk Treasurer, with the exception that licenses
for temporary carnivals granted by City Council contingent upon the approval of
any city department shall be issued only upon receipt by the City Clerk
Treasurer of such approval. No license shall be issued until the city receives
the liability insurance policy, as provided in division (B) above, and the
approval by the City Attorney that said policy complies with the terms of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Expiration of license. All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on
December 31 at 12:00 midnight, for the year of issuance thereof, with the
exception that any license for a temporary carnival shall expire at a time
determined by the City Council at the time of the granting of the license. The
expiration date of each license shall be indicated on the face thereof.
(1990 Code, § 10.007)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  LICENSE FEES.
   The fees to be paid upon application for, and renewal of, a recreational
facility license are those as are set forth in this section:
 
Facility                                                 Annual License Fee
Amusement parks or amusement places                      $25
Billiard or pool room                                    Per table, $10
Card room                                                Per table, $10
Dance hall                                               $25
Game rooms (vending, coin operated, mechanical amusement Per machine, $8
devices)
Temporary carnivals                                      Per carnival, $15
 
(1990 Code, § 10.008)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.09  LICENSE RENEWAL; TRANSFERABILITY.
   Any license issued in accordance with this subchapter may be renewed for an
additional year upon reapplication to the City Clerk Treasurer. The City Clerk
Treasurer shall renew a license upon receipt of the approval of the Building
Department, Fire Department, and Police Department. Whenever the holder of such
permit desires to effect a change of place of doing business he or she shall
notify the City Council and make application for a license for such new place
in the same manner as in the first instance, excepting that proof of good
character may be dispensed with by such City Council. No license issued
pursuant to this Act shall be assignable or transferable, nor shall any person
excepting the person to which it was issued be permitted to do business
thereunder either directly or indirectly.
(1990 Code, § 10.009)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10  LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The City Council shall have the right to revoke any license once granted or
the annual renewal thereof, when it appears to its satisfaction that any
licensee has violated this subchapter or any other ordinance of the city or
statute of the state.
(1990 Code, § 10.010)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.11  CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   No licensee, by himself or herself, directly or indirectly, or by any
servant, agent, or employee shall knowingly:
   (A)   Permit any conduct as defined and prohibited by
Chapter 130;
   (B)   Permit the licensed premises to become a resort for disorderly persons
of any type, as defined by Public Act 84 of the Public Acts of 1939, as
amended, § 750.167 of the Compiled Laws of 1979;
   (C)   Permit gambling or the use, possession, or presence of gambling
paraphernalia on the premises;
   (D)   Permit intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises;
   (E)   Permit any persons under the age of 12 years to be upon the premises
after 10:00 p.m. (local time) or permit any persons under the age of 17 years
to be upon the premises after 12:00 p.m. (local time) unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian;
   (F)   Permit the possession or use of any alcoholic liquor on the premises,
nor shall the licensed premises be accessible in any way with any place where
alcoholic liquor is kept, sold, distributed, or given away. This prohibition
shall not apply while a State Liquor Control Commission license is in effect at
the licensed premises;
   (G)   Permit the possession or use of any controlled substances as
prohibited under Article 7 of Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.1101 et seq.; or
   (H)   Permit noise or music to emerge from licensed premises which is
disturbing to the surrounding area.
(1990 Code, § 10.011)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12  HOURS.
   No recreational facility shall remain open between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
(1990 Code, § 10.012)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13  INSPECTIONS.
   Each licensee shall at all times open each and every portion of the licensed
premises for inspection by the Police Department and/or other city departments
for the purpose of enforcing any ordinance relating to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public.
(1990 Code, § 10.013)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.14  WAIVER OF LICENSE FEE FOR CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
   The City Council may, in its discretion, waive the imposition of the license
fee for any organization qualifying as a charitable organization under § 501(c)
(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3).
(1990 Code, § 10.014)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.15  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   It is the legislative intent that all provisions and sections, clauses
and sentences of this subchapter be liberally construed, and should any
provision, section, clause, or sentence be held unconstitutional or invalid,
such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity of any of the
remaining provisions, sections, clauses, or sentences, it being the intent that
this subchapter shall stand notwithstanding the validity of any provision,
section, clause, or sentence.
   (B)   All proceedings pending, initiated, or existing under prior ordinance
provisions at the time this subchapter takes effect are saved and may be
consummated according to the law in force when they were commenced. This
subchapter shall not be construed to affect any prosecution, pending or begun,
at the effective date of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 10.016)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.16  SEVERABILITY.
   If any phrase, clause, sentence, or section of this subchapter is for any
reason declared illegal or invalid in any final adjudication by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining parts of this subchapter shall be deemed
to have been adopted and shall continue in full force and effect without such
illegal or invalid provision.
(1990 Code, § 10.017)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.17  SECTION HEADINGS.
   The section headings used in this subchapter are for convenience only and
are not a part of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 10.018)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
§ 110.18  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become effective ten days after its
adoption and shall be published by a brief notice in a newspaper circulated in
the city, stating the date of enactment and the effective date of this
subchapter, a brief statement as to the subject matter of this subchapter and
such other facts as the Clerk Treasurer shall deem pertinent, and that a copy
of this subchapter is available for public use and inspection at the office of
the City Clerk Treasurer.
(1990 Code, § 10.019)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
CAR WASHES AND LAUNDROMATS
§ 110.30  COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate, cause,
or permit to be operated any washrack, motor vehicle laundry, or laundromat for
the laundering of clothing within the corporate limits of the city except in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 11.001)  (Ord. 31, passed 6-6-1977)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31  DUTY OF OWNER OR OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of any washrack, motor vehicle
laundry, or laundromat for the laundering of clothing to:
   (A)   Keep the premises free of debris and litter;
   (B)   Prevent excessive noise and rowdiness; and
   (C)   Maintain peace, order, and safety on the premises.
(1990 Code, § 11.002)  (Ord. 31, passed 6-6-1977)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32  OPERATION BETWEEN 10:00 P.M. AND 7:00 A.M.
   Washracks, motor vehicle laundries, or laundromats for the laundering of
clothing as hereinafter defined shall not be open or operated between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless the owner or operator thereof or such
owner’s or operator’s agent is personally present on the premises during said
hours.
(1990 Code, § 11.003)  (Ord. 31, passed 6-6-1977)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, a WASHRACK, MOTOR VEHICLE LAUNDRY, or
LAUNDROMAT for the purpose of laundering clothing shall include all operations
on the premises where facilities are provided for coin operated or self-service
washing of motor vehicles or clothing.
(1990 Code, § 11.004)  (Ord. 31, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 110.34  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on June 25, 1977.
(1990 Code, § 11.005)  (Ord. 31, passed 6-6-1977)
PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM DEALERS REGISTRATION
§ 110.45  CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION FEE.
   All precious metal and gem dealers who shall apply to the City Police
Department for a certificate of registration pursuant to Enrolled House Bill
No. 4014 shall pay a fee of $50 to cover the reasonable cost of processing and
issuing the certificate of registration.
(1990 Code, § 13.000)  (Ord. 49, passed 10-20-1981)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.46  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is declared to be an emergency ordinance which is
immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace and safety and
is therefore to have immediate effect.
(1990 Code, Part 13)  (Ord. 49, passed 10-20-1981)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.18 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $100 for each offense or to
imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than 90 days or to both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. Each day of the violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
(1990 Code, § 10.015)  (Ord. 73, passed 7-10-1990)
CHAPTER 111:  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES OR BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Short title and citation
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Licensing
   
111.04   Prohibited entertainment and activities
   
111.05   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  SHORT TITLE AND CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Reading Adult
Entertainment Facilities or Businesses Ordinance.
(Ord. 89, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORES and ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.  Those businesses and/or
facilities offering or displaying books, magazines, periodicals, photographs,
or motion pictures depicting, suggesting, or displaying human sexual activity,
nude human male or human female bodies, or activities in a libidinous, erotic,
lewd, licentious, carnal, or prurient manner.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES and ADULT BUSINESSES.  Include adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, cabarets, massage parlors (other
than those providing therapeutic massage services by state licensed, certified
therapeutic massage therapists), and retail businesses that display, sell, and/
or offer merchandise depicting sexual activities, human genitals, that is
claimed to enhance human sexual performance or enjoyment and/or novelty items
relating to or depicting human sexual activity or human genitals in a
libidinous, erotic, lewd, licentious, carnal, or prurient manner.
   NUDE or NUDITY.  Uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-puberty
human genitals, pubic areas, the post-puberty human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, the human male or female buttocks, or
the covered human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. For purposes of
this definition, the female breast is considered “uncovered” if the nipple only
or the nipple and the areola only are covered.
   OPERATOR.  Includes any person, co-partnership, firm, corporation, society,
club, association, or other organization that engages in, operates, sponsors,
conducts, or permits the operation of any adult entertainment facility or adult
business.
(Ord. 89, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 111.03  LICENSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any adult entertainment
facility or adult business in the city without having first obtained the proper
license therefor from the City Council. No license shall be issued until the
applicant shall have complied with the requirements of the zoning chapter, the
provisions of this chapter, and other applicable provisions of this code.
   (B)   The City Council shall, by resolution, establish the annual fee for a
license for the operation of an adult entertainment facility or business.
   (C)   The City Council shall refuse to issue a license for the operation of
any adult facility or adult business regulated by this chapter upon proof
submitted to it of:
      (1)   The applicant’s loss or revocation of a state issued license for
the operation of a business regulated by the State Liquor Control Commission or
for the operation of any adult entertainment or adult business facility within
the two years preceding the submission of the application for a license
pursuant to this chapter; and/or
      (2)   The applicant’s, an applicant’s agent, or employee’s conviction of
any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within the two years preceding the
submission of the application for a license or of any felony involving moral
turpitude within the six years preceding the submission of the application for
a license pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   The City Council shall revoke or suspend a license issued pursuant to
this chapter, after a hearing, at which it is determined that:
      (1)   The licensee or an officer, agent, or employee of the licensee who
is permitted or charged by the licensee to operate the adult facility or adult
business licensed pursuant to this chapter has been convicted of a crime
involving moral turpitude or has violated a regulation that results in the
revocation or suspension of a state issued license or permit relating to the
operation of the facility or business licensed pursuant to this chapter; or
      (2)   The licensee or an officer, agent, or employee of the licensee who
is permitted or charged by the licensee to operate the adult facility or adult
business licensed pursuant to this chapter has violated an ordinance, rule, or
regulation of the city that regulates, controls, or in any way relates to the
establishment, use, or operation of the adult facility or adult business
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Upon application and before any license required by this chapter shall
be issued, it shall be the duty of the Building Department or of a department
or individual appointed by Council to cause an inspection of the proposed
premises of any adult entertainment facility or adult business. Upon
determination of full compliance with all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations, including the following particular requirements, such department
shall certify the application to the City Council.
      (1)   Plumbing.  All plumbing in adult entertainment facilities and adult
businesses shall meet the minimum requirements of the Plumbing Code of the
county. All rooms housing sanitary facilities shall be equipped with sanitary
towels of a type acceptable to the County Department of Health. Sanitary
drinking fountains shall not be located in the toilet room.
      (2)   Ventilation.  Proper ventilation, either natural or mechanical,
shall be provided so that each person in the premises will be supplied with
1,200 cubic feet of air per hour.
      (3)   Fire protection, lighting, and building safety.  The premises of
the licensed establishment shall meet state fire protection requirements and
shall furnish lighting sufficient to provide one foot candlepower at tabletop
level. Such lighting may be reduced to accommodate acts of entertainment while
such acts are in progress, but must be raised to the required level at all
other times the establishments are in use as heretofore defined.
      (4)   Compliance with Building Code.  The premises shall comply with the
County Building Code.
      (5)   Zoning compliance.  The applicant shall comply with all applicable
provisions of the zoning chapter and shall obtain all required approvals from
the Building Inspector, the city’s Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission,
Zoning Board of Appeals, and other applicable inspectors and officials
regarding the premises and the facility or business to be established within
them.
(Ord. 89, passed 10-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  PROHIBITED ENTERTAINMENT AND ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or an officer, agent, or
employee of the licensee who is permitted or charged by the licensee to operate
the adult facility or adult business licensed pursuant to this chapter to
permit any employee or entertainer to leave such adult entertainment facility
or adult business in the company of any patron not related to such employee or
entertainer prior to the closing hour of such adult entertainment facility or
adult business. Continued employment of an employee or entertainer who leaves
such adult entertainment facility or adult business with non-related patrons
shall be deemed to be permitting such occurrences to take place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or an officer, agent, or
employee of the licensee who is permitted or charged by the licensee to operate
the adult facility or adult business licensed pursuant to this chapter to allow
nudity as defined in this chapter or libidinous, erotic, lewd, licentious,
carnal, or prurient conduct, such as topless or bottomless or totally nude
waitresses, bartenders or barmaids, entertainers including dancers,
impersonators, or any other form for the attraction or entertainment of
customers.
   (C)   No dancing or entertainment shall be permitted in any adult
entertainment facility or adult business between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:
30 a.m., provided that the exceptions in the Michigan Liquor Control Code,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 through 436.2303, governing hours of operation on
December 24 and 25 annually and the regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission governing hours of operation on January 1 shall prevail on the
aforementioned dates.
   (D)   The licensee, operator, or person in charge shall at all times open
every portion of any adult entertainment facility or adult business for
inspection by the Police Department or other city departments for the purposes
of enforcing any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 89, passed 10-14-2003)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on November 15, 2003, after publication
pursuant to Charter.
(Ord. 89, passed 10-14-2003)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment in
the County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine,
costs, and imprisonment as may be determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Each day that a violation under this chapter continues to exist shall
be considered to be a separate violation subject to the penalties herein set
forth.
(Ord. 89, passed 10-14-2003)
CHAPTER 112:  TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Application for license
   
112.03   License fee
   
112.04   Period during which license shall not be issued
   
112.05   Effective date
§ 112.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage temporarily in the business of selling or offering
for sale at retail, by auction or otherwise, any goods, wares, merchandise, or
services without first obtaining a license therefor in the manner provided.
(1990 Code, § 12.001)  (Ord. 11, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 112.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The application for a license required by this chapter shall contain the
following times, and any others that the City Clerk Treasurer may require:
   (A)   The full name, permanent address, business address, local address, and
the age and occupation of the applicant at the time of filing this application;
   (B)   The name of the person represented, if any, together with the address
of the central or district office;
   (C)   The period of time for which the license is requested;
   (D)   A list or general description of the article to be sold or offered for
sale, and a description of the manner in which the business is to be carried
on;
   (E)   The value of all equipment, stock, goods, or merchandise which shall
be kept on hand for the purpose of conducting the business of said applicant;
and
   (F)   Proof that a license has been obtained from the County Treasurer in
the manner provided by Public Act 51 of 1925, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.371 through
445.378.
(1990 Code, § 12.002)  (Ord. 11, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 112.03  LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license required by this chapter shall be $25 per year.
(1990 Code, § 12.003)  (Ord. 11, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 112.04  PERIOD DURING WHICH LICENSE SHALL NOT BE ISSUED.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter except after a period of seven
days from the date of filing the application therefor.
(1990 Code, § 12.004)  (Ord. 11, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 112.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 12)  (Ord. 11, passed 4-2-1973)
CHAPTER 113:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Conflict
   
113.03   Terms defined
   
113.04   Permit required
   
113.05   Issuance of permit
   
113.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
113.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
113.08   Route maps
   
113.09   Repair of damage
   
113.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
113.11   Modification of existing fees
   
113.12   Savings clause
   
113.13   Use of funds
   
113.14   Annual report
   
113.15   Cable television operators
   
113.16   Existing rights
   
113.17   Compliance
   
113.18   Reservation of police powers
   
113.19   Authorized city officials
   
113.20   Effective date
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), being §§ 484.3101 through 484.3120,
(“Act”) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the city qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.02  CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.03  TERMS DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), as amended from time to time. A copy of
the ACT can be obtained on the Internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/
comm/rightofway/rightofway.htm.
      CITY.  The City of Reading.
      CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of Reading or its designee.
This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
      CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT.  A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following.
      AUTHORITY.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC.  The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
“Commission” in the Act.
      PERSON.  An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement, or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES.  The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. 
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of
the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332,
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband Internet transport access service.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required.  Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application.  Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
City Clerk Treasurer, one copy with the City Manager, and one copy with the
City Attorney. Upon receipt, the City Clerk Treasurer shall make four copies of
the application and distribute a copy to [identify additional recipients].
Applications shall be complete and include all information required by the Act,
including without limitation a route map showing the location of the provider’s
existing and proposed facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of the Act.  A copy
of the application form as approved by the Commission can be obtained on the
Internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/rightofway/rightofway.htm.
   (C)   Confidential information.  If a telecommunications provider claims
that any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contains trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is
exempt from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the
telecommunications provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each
map.
   (D)   Application fee.  Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information.  The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information, which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits.  Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, M.C.L.A. § 484.2251
and authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers.  Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under §
251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this subsection is
not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D) above.
A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an additional 180 days
to submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in §
5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.05  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial.  The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
113.04(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to § 6
(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City Manager
has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the date on
which the application was filed and the date on which the permit was granted or
denied. The City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application for a
permit.
   (B)   Form of permit.  If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2),
and 15 of the Act. Copies of the permit forms currently approved by the MPSC
can be obtained on the Internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/
rightofway/ rightofway.htm.
   (C)   Conditions.  Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement.  Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.06  CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit for construction within the public rights-
of-way. No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.07  CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.08  ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and until the
MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.09  REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the
street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the public
right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10  ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
113.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.11  MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the city hereby
modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to telecommunications
providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to
access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the
amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the
Authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the city
also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act. The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers
in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the city’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or discovery
by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in error.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.12  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
113.11 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.13  USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from the
Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city from the
Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the Local Street
Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§
247.651 through 247.675.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.14  ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager shall file an annual report
with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually distributed by
the Authority.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.15  CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable television
operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband Internet transport access services.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.16  EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.17  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
113.04(C);
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
113.04(F);
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
113.04(G);
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
113.05(A);
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
113.05(A);
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
113.05(A);
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
113.05(B);
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
113.05(C);
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
113.05(D);
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
113.06;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
113.11;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
113.14; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
113.15.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18  RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the city’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.19 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
chapter violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
city code.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.20  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on October 31, 2002.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to [specify local civil infraction fines or ordinance section
references here]. [If the city does not have a municipal civil infraction
ordinance: A violation of this chapter shall be a violation of the city code.]
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to
the city in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 87, passed - -2002)
CHAPTER 114:  CABLE TV RATES AND REGULATIONS
Section
Community Antenna Television Systems
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Contract; application
   
114.03   Contract; issuance
   
114.04   Service area and extension
   
114.05   Stations designated
   
114.06   Financial responsibility
   
114.07   Indemnification, maintaining insurance, and furnishing bond
   
114.08   Rates payable to city
   
114.09   Subscriber rates
   
114.10   Contractor’s rules and regulations
   
114.11   Contractor’s office for consumer complaints
   
114.12   Financial statements and records
   
114.13   Transmission lines and facilities
   
114.14   Emergency use of facilities
   
114.15   Local origination channels; availability
   
114.16   Service to public buildings
   
114.17   Sale or transfer of system
   
114.18   Limitation of services
   
114.19   Contract; renewal
   
114.20   Surrender of franchise; notice
   
114.21   Necessity for contract
   
114.22   FCC rules and regulations
   
114.23   Severability
   
114.24   Effective date
Basic Cable TV Rate Regulation
   
114.35   Definitions
   
114.36   Purpose; interpretation
   
114.37   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
114.38   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
114.39   Proprietary information
   
114.40   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
114.41   Tolling order
   
114.42   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
114.43   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
114.44   Rate decisions and orders
   
114.45   Refunds; notice
   
114.46   Written decisions; public notice
   
114.47   Rules and regulations
   
114.48   Failure to give notice
   
114.49   Additional hearings
   
114.50   Additional powers
   
114.51   Failure to comply; remedies
   
114.52   Severability
   
114.53   Conflicting provisions
 
   
114.99   Penalty
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE.  The provision by the company to television receivers of all
signals of over-the-air television stations required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC), public channels and additional channels at the
option of the company.
   CITY.  The City of Reading, Michigan.
   CITY CHANNEL.  A channel on the system which is reserved for use by the city
or for public access.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The Council of the City of Reading, Michigan.
   CLERK.  The City Clerk Treasurer of the City of Reading.
   COMPANY CHANNEL.  A channel on the system which is reserved for the carriage
of program material originated by the company or by another person.
   CONTRACTOR.  A person to whom a contract has been issued pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION or FCC.  The governing federal agency of
that name or any successor agency created by the United States Congress.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES.  Includes any and all compensation or receipts
derived from installation, disconnection, and reinstallation and recurring
monthly service charges arising from the sale of regular monthly service to a
subscriber.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization of any kind.
   REGULAR SUBSCRIBER SERVICES.  Includes the carriage of broadcast signals and
FCC mandated non-broadcast services, but shall not include auxiliary services,
which include but are not limited to advertising, lease channels, and pay
cable.
   SUBSCRIBER.  A purchaser of any service delivered over the system to an
individual dwelling unit where the service is not to be utilized in connection
with a business, trade, or profession.
(1990 Code, § 25.001)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.02  CONTRACT; APPLICATION.
   Any person who demonstrates to the City Council that he or she has available
for his or her use, facilities, equipment, and authority to develop a cable
system to transmit television and radio programs from an input point to a
determined point on the premises of CATV subscribers, may file an application
with the City Clerk Treasurer for contract to operate the CATV system within
the city. The application shall include such information as is set forth in
this subchapter, as well as such additional information as the City Council
shall from time to time request.
(1990 Code, § 25.002)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.03  CONTRACT; ISSUANCE.
   Upon the receipt by the Clerk Treasurer of an application signed by the
applicant, complying with all of the requirements of this subchapter, the Clerk
Treasurer shall forward the materials to the City Council for study. Should the
Council, in its sole discretion, deem the application to be in the best
interests of the city, it should direct the Clerk Treasurer to issue to the
applicant a non-exclusive contract to operate a community antenna television-
radio system within the city for a period of 15 years from the date of issuance
of such contract. The contractor shall proceed as soon as practicable, after
receipt of such contract, with the necessary work to enter into an agreement
with the necessary public utilities and to provide the system called for in his
or her contract.
(1990 Code, § 25.003)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.04  SERVICE AREA AND EXTENSION.
   Each applicant shall, in his or her application, agree to serve the entire
area encompassed by the corporate limits of the city as they exist during the
term of his or her contract.
(1990 Code, § 25.004)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.05  STATIONS DESIGNATED.
   Each applicant shall, with his or her application, designate all the
broadcasting stations which will be carried by the system. Initial channel
capacity of the applicant’s system shall be no less than 35 channels.
(1990 Code, § 25.005)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.06  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each applicant shall attach to his or her application a copy of his or her
“Profit and Loss Statement and Balance Sheet” covering the operation of any
other CATV system of which such applicant is the owner, or in which such
applicant is a stockholder for the last preceding fiscal year in the state, and
shall, in addition, submit such financial statements and net worth statements
as shall reasonably indicate financial responsibility of the applicant and his
or her ability to provide the service required by the contract provided for in
this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 25.006)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.07  INDEMNIFICATION, MAINTAINING INSURANCE, AND FURNISHING BOND.
   Each applicant shall, in his or her application, agree as follows:
   (A)   To indemnify the city for any and all liability arising out of the
installation, operation, or maintenance of the cable antenna television system;
   (B)   To indemnify the city against all expenses incurred by the city in
defending itself in the event that any claims are made against the city or
litigation results therefrom;
   (C)   To maintain, throughout the term of its contract, liability insurance
insuring the city and the company with regard to all damages for which the city
and/or the company may be liable, including but not limited to damages arising
from the installation, operation, maintenance, or removal of the company’s CATV
system, whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by the contract provided for herein. The liability
insurance referred to in this section shall be in the following amounts:
      (1)   Five hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury or death to any one
person, with a limit of $1,000,000 for bodily injury or death resulting from
any one accident;
      (2)   Five hundred thousand dollars for property damage resulting from
any one accident; and
      (3)   Five hundred thousand dollars for all other types of liability.
   (D)   To furnish the city a bond for the faithful performance of its
obligations under such contract, if awarded under this subchapter in an amount
to be set by the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 25.007)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.08  RATES PAYABLE TO CITY.
   The applicant shall, in his or her application, agree to pay to the city
annually, commencing one year from the effective date of the contract issued
hereunder and each year thereafter, 3% of his or her gross subscriber revenue
derived from all cable services within the city, or $250, whichever is greater.
In the event that the rules of the Federal Communications Commission presently
governing such rates should be changed, the applicant shall agree to be bound
by such alternative basis for assessing such rates as shall be specified in
this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 25.008)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.09  SUBSCRIBER RATES.
   (A)   The rates and charges for television and radio signals distributed
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Basic cable (minimum of 12 channels of programming): $9.95 per
month;
      (2)   Expanded basic cable (six additional channels of programming):
$3.95 per month;
      (3)   Fees for second and third television sets connected to cable: $3.50
per month per set;
      (4)   Connection fee:
         (a)   First television set connection: $28.50; and
         (b)   Second television set connection: $15.00.
      (5)   Converter deposit: $15.00 deposit by subscriber for each converter
utilized, refunded to the subscriber if service is discontinued and the
converter returned in good condition.
   (B)   No increase in rates charged for installation of equipment and “basic
service” as specified in the preceding divisions shall be made effective except
as authorized by the City Council within 90 days after notice of such increase
by the contractor, and after a full, open, and public proceeding upon prior
notice and opportunity of all interested parties to be heard; except that, in
the event the City Council fails to approve or disapprove the rate increase
within the 90-day period, such increase shall be deemed approved and shall be
effective at the end of the 90-day period;
   (C)   Where an unusually difficult or abnormal installation is encountered
or requested, the contractor may reserve the right to require additional
charges to reasonably recover the company’s costs. Such charges may, at the
subscriber’s request, be added to the subscriber’s monthly charges over a
negotiable period of time.
   (D)   Rates for services other than installation of equipment and regular
subscriber services shall be established by the contractor pursuant to the
rules of the Federal Communications Commission.
   (E)   If, in the future, the state regulates the rates of the company for
the services provided under a contract issued hereunder, those portions of this
subchapter so regulated by the state shall be of no effect during such state
regulation to the extent of any conflict therewith.
(1990 Code, § 25.009)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 60A, passed 5-26-1985)
§ 114.10  CONTRACTOR’S RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The contractor shall file with the Clerk Treasurer copies of all rules,
regulations, terms, and conditions adopted by the contractor for the conduct of
its business, and shall likewise file with the Clerk Treasurer any amendments
or alterations therein as made.
(1990 Code, § 25.010)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.11  CONTRACTOR’S OFFICE FOR CONSUMER COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The contractor shall maintain a regional office in the area which
shall be open during the usual business hours, have a listed toll-free
telephone number and be so operated that complaints and requests for repairs or
adjustments may be received at any time, 24 hours per day.
   (B)   The contractor shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly,
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Such interruptions, insofar as is possible, shall be preceded by notice, and
shall occur during the period of minimum use of the system.
   (C)   The contractor shall limit failures to a minimum by locating and
correcting malfunctions promptly, but in no event longer than 24 hours after
receiving notice of same, except as provided herein.
   (D)   Should it be impossible or impractical to correct any malfunction
within 24 hours or less, then each subscriber whose television reception is so
disrupted shall receive a rebate from the contractor in the amount of one-
thirtieth of such subscriber’s monthly charge for every additional 24-hour
period that said subscriber’s television reception is so disrupted, unless that
disruption in service was entirely beyond the contractor’s control.
   (E)   Any rebate made to any subscriber under this section, in any month,
shall not exceed said subscriber’s normal monthly fee paid to the contractor.
   (F)   Complaint procedures shall be given to each new subscriber at the time
of initial subscription to the CATV system. In the instance of existing
subscribers, changes in complaint procedure shall be included with the next
monthly billing. Further, the contractor shall, in writing, advise the City
Clerk Treasurer of the procedures and personnel which shall be available for
the handling of consumer complaints. The City Clerk Treasurer, or such other
person as the City Council designates, shall be accorded an opportunity to
review all consumer complaints and methods in which the same have been handled
by the contractor.
(1990 Code, § 25.011)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 60A, passed 5-26-1985)
§ 114.12  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RECORDS.
   The contractor, unless otherwise required hereunder, shall file with the
Clerk Treasurer, annually, an unaudited statement of revenues received from the
operation of CATV within the city within 90 days after the close of its fiscal
year; the City Council may, however, require an audited statement of revenues
received from the operation of CATV within the city for any fiscal year, the
same to be provided within 90 days after the close of the fiscal year for which
an audited statement is required or within 120 days after such requirement is
imposed, whichever is longer. The contractor shall make his or her financial
records pertaining thereto available to the city for inspection, at a place
designated within the state at any reasonable time, maintaining separate
records as to his or her business conducted pursuant to this contract. On
demand, the contractor shall also file with the city copies of all FCC filings
and reports.
(1990 Code, § 25.012)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.13  TRANSMISSION LINES AND FACILITIES.
   All transmission lines and facilities will be in accordance with the rules
and regulations set forth by the local public utilities and shall be as per
contract with said local public utilities.
(1990 Code, § 25.013)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.14  EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES.
   In the event of emergency or disaster, the contractor shall, upon request of
the Mayor or his or her designate, make available its facilities to the city
for use during such emergency or disaster.
(1990 Code, § 25.014)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.15  LOCAL ORIGINATION CHANNELS; AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   The contractor shall make available such local origination channels as
are required by the rules of the FCC which shall be maintained by the
contractor on a non-discriminatory basis and shall further provide a character
generator to provide public service announcements and announcements provided by
local units of government including the local school system. Local nonprofit
organizations, local units of government, and local educational institutions
desiring to use this channel shall notify the City Clerk Treasurer and the City
Clerk Treasurer shall notify the contractor at least 48 hours in advance of
when this channel shall be in use.
   (B)   The contractor shall be permitted to use the channel capacity referred
to in the preceding division (A) when the channel capacity is not being used
for the purposes designated in said division (A).
(1990 Code, § 25.015)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 60A, passed 5-26-1985)
§ 114.16  SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   The contractor shall provide basic service to one outlet on each floor of
all existing or future police and fire stations, the City Hall, library, and
all public and private schools located within 300 feet of the contractor’s
cables within the city without any charge therefor.
(1990 Code, § 25.016)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.17  SALE OR TRANSFER OF SYSTEM.
   No contractor shall sell or otherwise transfer his or her CATV system to
another without reporting such sale to the Clerk Treasurer, and obtaining the
approval of the City Council of such transfer. Such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, but the proposed transferee may be required to submit
such financial information as shall establish his or her ability to maintain
and operate the system in accordance with the provisions hereof. For purposes
of this section, the transfer of 30% or more of the corporate stock of any
contractor shall be deemed to be a transfer hereunder.
(1990 Code, § 25.017)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18  LIMITATION OF SERVICES.
   The contractor shall not be engaged directly or indirectly in the business
of repairing, servicing, or selling television and radio servicing equipment.
(1990 Code, § 25.018)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.19  CONTRACT; RENEWAL.
   At such time that a contract given pursuant to this subchapter expires of
its own terms, any request for a renewal thereof shall be considered pursuant
to the provisions of the Cable Communications Policy of 1984, being 47 U.S.C.
§§ 521 et seq.
(1990 Code, § 25.019)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984; Ord. 62, passed 4-8-1986)
§ 114.20  SURRENDER OF FRANCHISE; NOTICE.
   A contractor may surrender his or her franchise at any time upon filing with
the Clerk Treasurer written notice of his or her intention to do so at least
six months before the surrender date. On the surrender date as specified in the
notice, the city shall have the option of either requiring the contractor to
remove its property from the city or to purchase the system in accordance with
§
114.19.
(1990 Code, § 25.020)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.21  NECESSITY FOR CONTRACT.
   No person shall own or operate a community antenna television and/or radio
system in the city except by contract issued pursuant to this subchapter.
(1990 Code, § 25.021)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.22  FCC RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter is governed by and subject to all applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, specifically including
Part 76, and by the laws of the state. Should there be any modification of the
provisions of § 76.31 of the Rules and Regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission which must be incorporated into the ordinance
codified in this subchapter, the city and the contractor agree that such
incorporation shall be accomplished within one year after the effective date of
the FCC’s adoption of the modification, or upon renewal of a contract,
whichever occurs first. However, the right is reserved to the city to adopt, in
addition to the provisions contained in this subchapter and existing applicable
ordinances, such additional ordinances as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of police power; provided, that such regulations shall be reasonable
and not in conflict with the laws of this state, the laws of the United States
of America, or the rules of the Federal Communications Commission.
(1990 Code, § 25.022)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.23  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
subchapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(1990 Code, § 25.024)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
§ 114.24  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be August 31, 1984 following
publication.
(1990 Code, Part 25)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
BASIC CABLE TV RATE REGULATION
§ 114.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases used in this subchapter shall have the same meaning as
defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
   ACT.  The Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as
amended (and specifically as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. (10)2-385, and as may be
amended from time to time
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT.  All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE.  As “basic service” is defined in the FCC Rules, and
any other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
city pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES.  All Rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE.  An INCREASE in rates or a decrease in programming or customer
services.
(1990 Code, § 26.001)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.36  PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the city.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with
the Act and FCC Rules.
(1990 Code, § 26.002)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.37  RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the city shall follow all FCC Rules.
(1990 Code, § 26.003)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.38  FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the City Clerk Treasurer. For purposes of this
subchapter, the filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made
when at least ten copies have been received by the City Clerk Treasurer. The
City Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations
prescribing the information, data, and calculations which must be included as
part of the cable operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed
increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide all
information requested by the Mayor in connection with the city’s review and
regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The Mayor may establish
deadlines for submission of the requested information and the cable operator
shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules, including without
limitation 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(1990 Code, § 26.004)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.39  PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this subchapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the city
pursuant to §
114.38(B), or any request for information pursuant to §
114.38(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly
proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request that
specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and
withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the city determines
that the preponderance of the evidence shows that non-disclosure is consistent
with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552. The city
shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that results in
information being withheld. If the cable operator requests confidentiality and
the request is denied, either:
      (1)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or
      (2)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of the
denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny, or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality, including without limitation 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(1990 Code, § 26.005)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.40  PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
114.38(A), the City Clerk Treasurer shall publish a public notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city which shall state that: the filing
has been received by the City Clerk Treasurer and (except those parts which may
be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection and copying; and
interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the filing to
the City Clerk Treasurer not later than seven days after the public notice is
published. The City Clerk Treasurer shall give notice to the cable operator of
the date, time, and place of the meeting at which the City Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be
mailed by first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition,
if a written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the City Council, then the
City Clerk Treasurer shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the
cable operator at least three days before the meeting at which the City Council
shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(1990 Code, § 26.006)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.41  TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
114.38(A) unless the City Council (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing a
brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing. The City Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90 days
in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150 days
in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(1990 Code, § 26.007)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.42  PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
114.41 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city any additional information
required or requested pursuant to §
114.38. In addition, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to consider
the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or 150-day
period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The City Clerk Treasurer shall publish a public notice of the public
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall
state:
      (1)   The date, time, and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
City Clerk Treasurer.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the City Clerk Treasurer shall mail by first-class mail a
copy of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before
the hearing.
(1990 Code, § 26.008)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.43  STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Mayor shall cause a report to be prepared
for the City Council which shall (based on the filing of the cable operator,
the comments or objections of interested parties, information requested from
the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s review, and other
appropriate information) include a recommendation for the decision of the City
Council pursuant to §
114.44. The City Clerk Treasurer shall mail a copy of the report to the cable
operator by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the City Council acts
under §
114.44. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
City Clerk Treasurer. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the
cable operator with the City Clerk Treasurer within ten days after the report
is mailed to the cable operator, the City Clerk Treasurer shall forward it to
the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 26.009)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.44  RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The City Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the City Council issues an order allowing the existing
rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also
direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §
76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of
the tolling order under §
114.41 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
114.41 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(1990 Code, § 26.010)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.45  REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The City Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 C.F.R.
§ 76.942. Before the City Council orders any refund to subscribers, the City
Clerk Treasurer shall give at least seven days’ written notice to the cable
operator by first-class mail of the date, time, and place at which the City
Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent, or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
City Council.
(1990 Code, § 26.011)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.46  WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Any order of the City Council pursuant to §
114.44 or § 144.45 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the
City Council, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption. The
Clerk Treasurer shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall summarize the
written decision; and state that copies of the text of the written decision are
available for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk Treasurer. In
addition, the City Clerk Treasurer shall mail a copy of the text of the written
decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(1990 Code, § 26.012)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.47  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
114.38 the City Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including
without limitation the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(1990 Code, § 26.013)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.48  FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the City Clerk Treasurer to give the notices or to mail
copies of reports as required by this subchapter shall not invalidate the
decisions or proceedings of the City Council.
(1990 Code, § 26.014)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.49  ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, the City Council may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the City
Council, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(1990 Code, § 26.015)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.50  ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules, the
cable operator’s franchise, and all other applicable law. The powers exercised
pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules, and this subchapter shall be in addition to
powers conferred by law or otherwise. The city may take any action not
prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public interest in
connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(1990 Code, § 26.016)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.51  FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including without limitation all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s consent agreement with the city) for failure to comply with
the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to
this subchapter, any requirements of this subchapter, or any rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply
with the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant
to this subchapter, any requirements of this subchapter, or any rules and
regulations promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for
revocation or denial of a cable operator’s consent agreement.
(1990 Code, § 26.017)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.52  SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sections, and clauses of this subchapter are hereby
declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, division, section, or clause
is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remainder of the chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(1990 Code, § 26.018)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.53  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and the provisions of
any prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other
agreement with a cable operator, then the provisions of this subchapter shall
control.
(1990 Code, § 26.019)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1993)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If a contractor violates any of the terms, conditions, or provisions
of §§
114.01 through
114.24 or a contract granted pursuant to the provisions of the ordinance
codified in that subchapter, or if a contractor should fail to comply with the
reasonable provisions of any ordinance of the city, or contract with a city
board regulating the use of the contractor of the streets, alleyways,
easements, and public ways of the city, and should the contractor continue to
violate the same for a period of five days after the contractor shall have been
notified in writing by the city to desist from such violation so specified,
then the contractor shall be deemed to have forfeited and annulled, and shall
forfeit and annul, all the rights and privileges granted by any contract issued
under the terms of §§
114.01 through
114.24, and in addition thereto, the contractor shall be considered in
violation of the ordinances of the city and given a misdemeanor subject to a
fine not to exceed $500. Each day a violation continues after the notice
provided in this section shall be considered a separate violation.
(1990 Code, § 25.023)  (Ord. 60, passed 8-14-1984)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CONDUCT OF INDIVIDUALS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130:  CONDUCT OF INDIVIDUALS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Acts prohibited
   
130.03   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct at car washes and laundromats, see §
110.31
   Noise control, see §§
91.035 and
91.036
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The term PUBLIC PLACE as used in this chapter shall mean any street, alley,
park, public building, any place of business or assembly open to or frequented
by the public, and any other place which is open to the public view, or to
which the public has access.
(1990 Code, § 50.001)  (Ord. 5, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 130.02  ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person;
   (B)   Be drunk in any public place or under the influence of any narcotic
drug in any public place;
   (C)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral, or obscene conduct in any
public place;
   (D)   Discharge any firearm, air rifle, air pistol, or bow and arrow in the
city, except when lawfully acting in the defense of persons or property or the
enforcement of law or at a duly established range, the operation of which has
been approved by the Council;
   (E)   Fire, discharge, display, or possess any fireworks except of the type
and under the conditions permitted by Chapter 29 of the Penal Code of the State
of Michigan, as last amended by Act 242 of the Public Acts of 1949, being
M.C.L.A. Chapter 750;
   (F)   Engage in peeping in the windows of any inhabited place;
   (G)   Beg in any public place;
   (H)   Swim or bathe in any public place without wearing proper apparel;
   (I)   Utter vile, profane, or obscene language in any public place;
   (J)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her person;
   (K)   Print, engrave, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit, or publish,
or have in his or her possession for any such purpose any obscene, lewd,
lascivious, indecent, or immodest book, pamphlet, paper, picture, cast
statuary, image, or representation or other article of an indecent or immoral
nature, or any book, paper, print, circular, or writing made up principally of
pictures or stories of immodest deeds, lust, or crime, or exhibit any such
article within the view of any passer-by;
   (L)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter or in any manner deface any
property not his or her own, or any public school building, or any public
building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic
control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter, or shade tree belonging
to the city or located in the public places of the city, or mark or post
handbills on or in any manner mar the walls of any public building, or fence,
tree, or pole within the city, or destroy, take, or meddle with any property
belonging to the city, or remove the same from the building or place where it
may be kept, placed, or stored, without proper authority; or disturb, tamper
with, disconnect, or damage any city water meter without proper authority;
   (M)   Destroy, injure, or in any manner deface any drinking fountain located
in the city, or throw or deposit any substance therein, or in any manner
pollute the water in the basin or any fountain or detach the cups or other
parts of such drinking fountain;
   (N)   Insult, accost, molest, or otherwise annoy, either by word of mouth,
sign, or motion, any person in any public place;
   (O)   Engage in any disturbance, fight, or quarrel in a public place;
   (P)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage, or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
   (Q)   Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any street, alley, park, or public
building;
   (R)   Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public building or
conduct himself or herself in any public place so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public;
   (S)   Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for
any purpose;
   (T)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
   (U)   Attend, frequent, operate, or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor, or where
any other illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
   (V)   Engage in prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor, or any other illegal or immoral business or occupation. Proof of recent
reputation for engaging in prostitution, gambling, illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor, or other illegal or immoral occupation or business shall be prima facie
evidence of being engaged or occupied therein;
   (W)   Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal or immoral act;
   (X)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
gambling is practiced, encouraged, or allowed for the purpose of enabling such
person to engage in gambling or in any illegal or immoral act;
   (Y)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables, or any policy or pool
tickets, used for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming tables, or
any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played, or sold on any
premises occupied or controlled by him or her;
   (Z)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous, or vulgar
conduct;
   (AA)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be
a resort of noisy, boisterous, or disorderly persons;
   (BB)   Obstruct, resist, hinder, or oppose any member of the police force,
or any peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties as such;
   (CC)   Wander about the streets, either by day or night, or loiter in any
public building, without any lawful means of support or without being able to
give a satisfactory account of himself or herself;
   (DD)   Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any other person in
the nighttime, without authority or the permission of the owner of such
premises;
   (EE)   Spit on any sidewalk or on the floor or seat of any public carrier,
or on any floor, wall, seat, or equipment of any place of public assemblage;
   (FF)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile, or object from any
moving automobile;
   (GG)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile, or object toward
any person or automobile; or
   (HH)   Neglect or fail to support his or her spouse, children, or family, if
he or she shall have sufficient ability to do so, or leave or desert his or her
spouse, children, or family without sufficient means of support.
(1990 Code, § 50.002)  (Ord. 5, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City Council.
(1990 Code, Part 50)  (Ord. 5, passed 4-2-1973)
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Conduct in City Parks
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Uses and prohibited acts
   
131.04   Permits
   
131.05   City employees
   
131.06   Park closing
   
131.07   Severability
   
131.08   Inconsistent ordinances
   
131.09   Effective date
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal control, see
Chapter 90
   Noise control, see §§
91.035 and
91.036
CONDUCT IN CITY PARKS
§ 131.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide rules and regulations for the
use of and conduct in the parks and recreation areas of the city.
(1990 Code, § 51.001)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 131.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The term PARK is defined as any property owned by the city which is used for
recreational purposes, or public property used by the city for recreational
purposes.
(1990 Code, § 51.002)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 131.03  USES AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a park to:
      (1)   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or remove
any buildings, tables, benches, fireplaces, grills, light poles, fountains,
trees, playground equipment, public utilities or parts, or appurtenances
thereof, signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent,
monuments, flagpoles, stakes, posts, fences, or other boundary markers, or
other structures or equipment, facilities, or park property, or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
      (2)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trample, pursue, chase, tease,
shoot, or throw missiles at any animal, wildlife, reptile, or bird; nor shall
he or she remove or have in his or her possession the young of any wild animal,
or the eggs or nest or young of any reptile or bird. Exception to the foregoing
is made in that snakes known to be dangerous may be killed on sight;
      (3)   Carry or discharge firearms of any description, slingshots; shoot
arrows; discharge fireworks, firecrackers, rockets, or any other types of
fireworks, or anything containing the substance of any explosive or
inflammatory nature;
      (4)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs, or
plants or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment,
or other means or agency;
      (5)   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant, or remove any plant or injure
the bark, or pick flowers or seeds of any tree or plant, dig or otherwise
disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area;
        (6)   Attach any rope or cable or other contrivance to any tree, fence,
railing, bridge, bench, or other structure;
      (7)   Take into, carry through, or put into any park any rubbish, refuse,
garbage, or other material. Such refuse and rubbish shall be deposited in
receptacles so provided. Where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish
or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere;
      (8)   Do or perform any unlawful act, or make or excite any disturbance
or contention;
      (9)   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public
peace;
      (10)   Walk a dog or other domestic animal without a leash, said leash to
be no longer than six feet. Further, the owner or person having custody of said
dog or domestic animal shall be responsible for the removal of any animal solid
waste;
      (11)   Drive any vehicle on any area except the park roads or parking
areas or such other areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as
temporary areas;
      (12)   Leave a vehicle standing or parked in an established parking area
or elsewhere in the park during hours when the park area is closed; or
      (13)   Kindle, build, maintain, or use a fire except in places provided
for such purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and direction
of a competent person from the time it is kindled until the time it is
extinguished. No person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar,
cigarette, tobacco, paper, or other materials within or against any building,
vehicle, or under any tree or in any underbrush.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following in any park without a permit,
provided that no permit shall be required for any action or event sponsored by
the city:
      (1)   Hold public assemblages;
      (2)   Conduct exhibitions;
      (3)   Hold a parade; or
      (4)   Enter an area posted as “closed to the public.”
(1990 Code, § 51.003)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987; Ord. 67a, passed 9-8-1987;
Ord. 67b, passed 9-8-1987)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits for special events in parks shall be obtained by application
to the City Council in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   A person seeking the issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application stating:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation, or
association sponsoring the activity, if any;
         (c)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
         (d)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired;
         (e)   Any other information reasonably necessary to a determination as
to whether a permit shall be issued hereunder;
         (f)   Specification of variances which are requested from existing
park rules and regulations;
         (g)   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is
to be used. The application shall show the maximum sound producing power of the
sound amplifying equipment to be used and shall state the following:
            1.   The wattage to be used;
            2.   The volume and decibels of the sound which will be produced;
and
            3.   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be
thrown.
         (h)   The name of some individual or individuals who will constantly
be in charge and on the premises during the duration of the permit, authorized
to receive notice of a revocation of such permit.
      (2)   Standards for issuance of a permit shall include the following
findings:
         (a)   The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public’s enjoyment of the park;
         (b)   The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety, and
recreation;
         (c)   The proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated
will not include violence, crime, or disorderly conduct;
         (d)   Appropriate arrangements have been made or will be made for
toilet and other sanitary facilities;
         (e)   Appropriate arrangements have been made for restricting
admission to the approximate number of people for whom arrangements have been
made;
         (f)   Appropriate arrangements have been made for the preservation of
law and order on the site;
         (g)   1.   The applicant has filed with the City Clerk Treasurer a
duplicate policy of public liability insurance insuring the applicant and the
city against personal injury, including death, of any person and against
liability for property damage in the following amounts:
               a.   Not less than $300,000 for death or injury to one person
and $1,000,000 for more than one death or injury arising out of any one
occurrence; and
               b.   One hundred thousand dollars property damage arising out of
any one occurrence.
            2.   The policy of insurance required hereunder shall be non-
cancelable without ten days’ written notice to the City Clerk Treasurer.
         (h)   The applicant has deposited with the City Clerk Treasurer cash
in the amount of $1,000 which the city may use to repair any damage done to any
street, sewer, tree, or city property when such damage arises out of or occurs
in connection with the permitted activity. The deposit required hereunder shall
be refundable as hereinafter set forth; and
         (i)   The applicant has made appropriate arrangements to see that any
dirt, paper, litter, or other debris arising out of or in connection with such
permitted activity shall be removed from the premises on the adjacent and
private property within 12 hours after the expiration of the permit and upon
failure of the applicant to comply therewith within the time limited and to
restore the premises into a presentable condition within such time period, the
city may undertake the same and defray the expenses from the cash deposit
hereinbefore referred to. One week after the expiration of the permit, any
balance of such cash deposit unexpended shall be refunded to the applicant.
   (B)   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable ordinances fully as though the same were inserted in said permits.
The City Council shall have the authority to revoke a permit upon a finding of
the violation of any rule or ordinance or upon good cause shown.
(1990 Code, § 51.004)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  CITY EMPLOYEES.
   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed by any
officer or employee of the city in line of duty or work as such, or by any
person, his or her agent or employees, in the proper and necessary execution of
the terms of any agreement with the city.
(1990 Code, § 51.005)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 131.06  PARK CLOSING.
   No person or persons shall be allowed in or admitted to the city parks
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1990 Code, § 51.006)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07  SEVERABILITY.
   It is the intent of the City Council that all provisions and sections of
this subchapter be liberally construed to protect and preserve the peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city; and should any
provision or section of this subchapter be held unconstitutional or invalid,
such holdings shall not be construed as affecting the validity of any of the
remaining provisions or sections, it being the intent that this subchapter
shall stand, notwithstanding the invalidity of any provision or section
thereof.
(1990 Code, § 51.008)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 131.08  INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances that are inconsistent with the terms of this subchapter, in
whole or in part, are hereby repealed.
(1990 Code, § 51.009)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 131.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect ten days after publication pursuant to
Charter.
(1990 Code, Part 51)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
131.01 through
131.09  shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
(1990 Code, § 51.007)  (Ord. 65, passed 6-9-1987)
CHAPTER 132:  MINORS
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
132.01   Short title
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Curfew for minors
   
132.04   Responsibility of owners of public places
   
132.05   Parents’ responsibility
   
132.06   Special functions
   
132.07   Procedures
   
132.08   Effective date
 
   
132.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 132.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ordinance Regulating
the Presence and Conduct of Minors on Streets and Public Places.
(1990 Code, § 52.001)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)
§ 132.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number the plural number. The word “shall” is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Reading.
      CUSTODIAN.  Any person over the age of 21 who is in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
      GUARDIAN.  Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of
a minor.
      MINOR.  Any person under the age of 17.
      PARENT.  The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground, or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A PUBLIC PLACE shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, café,
theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center, and any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front or immediate area of the above.
(1990 Code, § 52.002)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)
§ 132.03  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain, idle, wander, stroll, or play
in any public place either on foot or to cruise about without a set destination
in any vehicle in, about, or upon any place in the city between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 12:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Friday through Saturday, unless accompanied by a parent,
guardian, custodian, or other adult person having custody or control of such
minor, or unless the minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed or permitted by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or where the presence of such
minor is connected with or required by some legitimate employment, trade,
profession, or occupation.
(1990 Code, § 52.003)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation operating or
having charge of any public place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of
minors under the age of 17 between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1990 Code, § 52.004)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05  PARENTS’ RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person having
custody or control of any minor under the age of 17 to suffer or permit or by
inefficient control to allow such person to be on the streets or sidewalks or
on or in any public property or public place within the city between the hours
of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. However, the provisions of this section do not
apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, custodian, or
other adult person having the care, custody, or control of the minor, or if the
minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or activity directed by
his or her parent, guardian, custodian, or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor, or if the parent, guardian, or other adult person herein
has made a missing person notification to the Police Department.
(1990 Code, § 52.005)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06  SPECIAL FUNCTIONS.
   The curfew established by this chapter does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department  about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
§ 132.07  PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any police officer upon finding a minor in violation of this
subchapter shall obtain the name and address of such minor and warn the minor
that he or she is in violation of curfew and shall direct the minor to proceed
at once to his or her home or usual place of abode. The police officer shall
forthwith notify the parents, guardian, or person having custody or control of
such minor.
   (B)   If such minor refuses to heed such warning or direction by any police
officer or refuses to give such police officer his or her correct name and
address, or if the minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or she
is in violation of curfew, he or she shall be taken to the Police Department
and the parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of
such minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If the
parent, guardian, or other adult person above cannot be located or fails to
come and take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities.
(1990 Code, § 52.007)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)
§ 132.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on September 10, 1978.
(1990 Code, Part 52)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any minor violating the provisions of §§
132.01 through
132.08 shall be dealt with in accordance with the Juvenile Court law and
procedure. Any parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and
custody of a minor violating §§
132.01 through
132.08 shall, after having been previously notified under §
132.07, be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(1990 Code, § 52.008)  (Ord. 34, passed 8-11-1978)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS AND HOUSING
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS AND HOUSING
Section
Building Construction Permits
   
150.01   Application for permit
   
150.02   Condemnation
   
150.03   Effective date
Private Swimming Pools
   
150.15   Defined
   
150.16   Permit for construction
   
150.17   Fence
   
150.18   Noise control
   
150.19   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous structures, nuisances, see
Chapter 91
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
§ 150.01  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
converted, repaired, altered, or enlarged, moved, or demolished until a
building permit has been obtained by the owner or his or her agent. The
application for a permit shall be made in writing on approved forms and shall
be accompanied by one complete set of dimensioned plans showing all habitable
floors, basement, cellar, foundations, and sections, and by specifications
describing the kind, size, quality, and grade of all construction materials and
service equipment. The Building Official may waive the requirement for filing
plans when the work involved is of a minor nature and the building operation is
adequately described in the application. All plans submitted for filing shall
be prepared and signed as required by the state statutes. Where compliance with
state statutes governing building construction is required, the application
shall be accompanied by a set of the plans approved by the designated
authority.
   (B)   Applications for a building permit to move any building shall show the
width and cubical content of the building to be moved, its location and
address, the location and address to which it is being moved, and the route to
be traversed in the course of such movement, in addition to the information
required by this section for building permits for other types of operations. No
permit to move a building shall be granted except upon compliance with §
150.02.
(1990 Code, § 110.001)  (Ord. 2, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  CONDEMNATION.
   No permit shall be issued for any building or other structure upon any land
which has been condemned for any public improvement, or on any land ordered
condemned by the City Council for any public improvement, until a notice of
such proposed condemnation has been fixed to the plans, application, and
permit. Nor shall a permit be issued for any building or structure upon which a
notice of violation of any pertinent laws or ordinances has been issued, unless
there shall be included in the application proposed work to correct the
violation at the same time.
(1990 Code, § 110.002)  (Ord. 2, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to be effective ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 110)  (Ord. 2, passed 4-2-1973)
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.15  DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, a SWIMMING POOL shall be defined as an
artificial body of water contained in a permanent or semipermanent container
used by one or more persons primarily for the purpose of swimming, recreational
bathing, or wading.
(1990 Code, § 111.001)  (Ord. 25, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 150.16  PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to the beginning of any digging or other construction of a swimming
pool which will have a depth at any point of over 30 inches, the owner of the
land upon which the pool is to be constructed shall obtain from the City
Council through the City Clerk Treasurer’s office a permit for said
construction.
(1990 Code, § 111.002)  (Ord. 25, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 150.17  FENCE.
   Any swimming pool constructed and maintained within the city limits having a
depth of over 30 inches shall be surrounded by a sturdy fence of at least four
feet. The property owner upon whose land such pool is constructed and
maintained shall be responsible for the construction and maintenance of said
fence. The failure to provide such a fence shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(1990 Code, § 111.003)  (Ord. 25, passed 4-2-1973)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.18  NOISE CONTROL.
   The occupants of land upon which a pool is constructed and maintained shall
be responsible for maintaining a reasonable level of noise in the area around
the pool. Specific reference with regard to unreasonable noise shall be made to
§
91.035.
(1990 Code, § 111.004)  (Ord. 25, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 150.19  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to take effect ten days after adoption by the City
Council.
(1990 Code, Part 111)  (Ord. 25, passed 4-2-1973)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person erecting, using, moving, demolishing, occupying, or
maintaining any building or structure in violation of this Building Code as set
forth in §§
150.01 through
150.03, or causing, permitting, or suffering any such violation to be
committed, shall be punished as in other misdemeanor cases. Any building or
structure erected, used, moved, demolished, occupied, or maintained in
violation of §§
150.01 through
150.03 is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. Upon application to any
court of competent jurisdiction, the court may order the nuisance abated and/or
the violation or threatened violations restrained and enjoined.
(1990 Code, § 110.003)  (Ord. 2, passed 4-2-1973)
CHAPTER 151:  LAND DIVISION
Section
   
151.01   Authority
   
151.02   Title
   
151.03   Compliance
   
151.04   Prior land divisions
   
151.05   Land division application required
   
151.06   Filing of land division application
   
151.07   Standards for review of land division
   
151.08   Deed restrictions
   
151.09   Survey
   
151.10   Entry of approved land division
   
151.11   Fees
   
151.12   Effective date
§ 151.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted under the authority of and in accordance with the
provisions of the Land Division Act, being Public Act 591 of 1996, as amended,
governing the incorporated portions of the city, intended to regulate the
division of land other than in a subdivision to be platted in accordance with
the Subdivision Control Act, being Public Act 288 of 1967 (being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293) and city ordinance, or a site condominium proposed
under the terms of the Condominium Act, being Public Act 59 of 1978 (being
M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272) and city ordinance. Henceforth, all
divisions of land shall comply with the terms and requirements of this chapter
and other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.02  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Reading Land Division Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.03  COMPLIANCE.
   The city or its departments shall recognize no land division unless it is in
full compliance with all ordinances of the city.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04  PRIOR LAND DIVISIONS.
   Land divisions recorded with the County Register of Deeds prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be recognized by the city, if and only if
such land division complied with all requirements of the city zoning ordinance
in effect on the date of recording. The city shall not recognize unrecorded
land contracts, deeds, and other instruments of land title conveyance dated
prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.05  LAND DIVISION APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Only upon the filing of an application by the owner(s) of all
interests therein may land be further divided, upon approval by the city’s
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Required information with the application includes:
      (1)   The name of the owner(s) of all interests in the subject property;
      (2)   The legal description of the parcel to be divided, together with
the number of total acres involved;
      (3)   Written evidence that all levied taxes have been paid;
      (4)   A scaled and dimensioned drawing showing the boundaries of the
parcel prior to the proposed division; also showing the proposed division,
including the square footage of each resulting parcel; also showing existing
easements running over the property, location of any creek, stream, river,
lake, woodland, or county drain;
      (5)   The proposed use for each of the divided parcels;
      (6)   A copy of all deed restrictions and covenants, either existing or
proposed, which shall run with the land if recorded;
      (7)   The date of any previous applications for divisions involving any
portion of the subject property, together with copies of the decision rendered
with respect to said applications, if any;
      (8)   The person to whom all correspondence concerning said application
is to be directed with specific appointment of said person as agent for all
owners; and
      (9)   A warranty deed to prove the applicant’s ownership of the subject
property.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06  FILING OF LAND DIVISION APPLICATION.
   Said application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator, and, upon
payment of the fees required under §
151.11, the application shall be reviewed for approval by the City Zoning
Administrator. All land divisions involving four or more new parcels of land
shall be forwarded by the Zoning Administrator to the City Planning Commission
for review.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.07  STANDARDS FOR REVIEW OF LAND DIVISION.
   (A)   No land division shall be granted which creates a parcel smaller than
the minimum size and which has less than the lot width required by the city
zoning ordinance.
   (B)   The transfer of title of land between abutting properties shall not be
considered a land division and is exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
However, the parcel transferred from one abutting parcel to another shall not
be considered a separate parcel and shall be joined by deed to the parcel to
which the property is transferred and shall be considered one parcel for
purposes of assessment, zoning, and building.
   (C)   All parcels created by land division shall not exceed a depth-to-width
ratio of more than four to one.
   (D)   The City Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant a variance to permit
creation of a parcel of land having a smaller lot area or a narrower lot width
than is required by the city zoning ordinance.
   (E)   For the purposes of this chapter, a LOT shall mean a parcel of land
shown in a request for a land division.
   (F)   All parcels created under the provisions of this chapter shall have
direct frontage on a public street. Alternatively, an access easement across
another parcel having frontage on a public street may be permitted by the City
Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.08  DEED RESTRICTIONS.
   In each instance where a parcel existing under separate ownership at the
effective date of this chapter is to be divided, any and all proposed deed
restrictions shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator prior to approval of
the land division.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.09  SURVEY.
   Prior to the entry of an approved division in the city records, the
applicant shall provide the Zoning Administrator with a staked survey of the
parent property and each lot to be created, together with the legal
descriptions of all the parcels as prepared by a registered land surveyor. The
survey shall include all existing buildings and structures on the parent
property, setback distance from all property lines, and all existing or
proposed easements.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.10  ENTRY OF APPROVED LAND DIVISION.
   Upon approval of a proposed division by the City Zoning Administrator, the
Zoning Administrator shall order all actions necessary to effectuate the
approved division, including but not limited to notification of the City
Assessor.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.11  FEES.
   Fees for a land division application may be established by resolution of the
City Council. All fees shall be paid to the city at the time of making the
application.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
§ 151.12  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter shall be upon publication as required by
law.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2002)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Compliance
   
152.003   Prior construction starts
   
152.004   Purposes
   
152.005   Interpretation
   
152.006   Validity and severability
   
152.007   Scope
   
152.008   Notice requirements
   
152.009   Construction of language; definitions
District Regulations
   
152.020   Zoning Map
   
152.021   Zoning districts
   
152.022   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.023   Zoning of annexed areas
   
152.024   Intent of districts
   
152.025   District area, yard, height, and bulk requirements
   
152.026   Historic Overlay District
District Uses
   
152.040   Uses in districts
   
152.041   R-1 (Low Density Residential District)
   
152.042   R-2 (Moderate Density Residential District)
   
152.043   R-3 (High Density Residential District)
   
152.044   O (Office District)
   
152.045   B-1 (Highway Commercial District)
   
152.046   B-2 (Central Business District)
   
152.047   I-1 (Industrial District)
   
152.048   I-2 (Industrial Park District)
Supplemental Regulations
   
152.060   Nonconformities
   
152.061   Accessibility to public street
   
152.062   Height exceptions
   
152.063   Application of yard requirements
   
152.064   Accessory structures and uses
   
152.065   Visibility at intersections
   
152.066   Floodplains and flood hazard areas
   
152.067   Substandard lots
   
152.068   Off-street parking
   
152.069   Off-street loading
   
152.070   Signs
   
152.071   Mobile home park regulations
   
152.072   Procedure for obtaining mobile home park approval
   
152.073   Home occupations
   
152.074   Multiple-family dwellings
   
152.075   Fences and hedges
   
152.076   Temporary structures
   
152.077   Junk yards and similar storage areas (including automobile wrecking)
   
152.078   “Use by right” building on a lot
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.090   Zoning chapter enforcement officials
   
152.091   Zoning compliance and building permits
   
152.092   Certificate of occupancy
   
152.093   Amendments
Special Land Use/Site Plan Review Requirements and Procedures
   
152.105   Special land uses
   
152.106   Site plan review and approval
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.120   Establishment
   
152.121   Intent
   
152.122   Rules and procedures
   
152.123   Authority of the Zoning Board of Appeals generally
   
152.124   Interpretation of this chapter
   
152.125   Appeals
   
152.126   Nonuse variances
Report to Governing Body
   
152.140   Report to governing body
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Reading Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord., § 101, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.002  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or part hereof shall be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, converted or enlarged and maintained, nor shall any
structure or land be used or be designed to be used except in full compliance
with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., § 102, passed 6-11-2002)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.003  PRIOR CONSTRUCTION STARTS.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require
a change in plans, construction, or designated use of any structure on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of this
chapter or subsequent amendment thereto.
(Ord., § 103, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.004  PURPOSES.
   This chapter is based upon the City Master Plan adopted in the year 2000 and
is intended to promote the health, safety, and general welfare: to encourage
the use of lands in accordance with their character and adaptability; to limit
the improper use of land; to avoid overcrowding of population; to provide
adequate light and air; to lessen congestion on the public streets and roads;
to reduce hazards to life and property; to facilitate adequate provision for a
system of transportation, sewage disposal, safe and adequate water supply,
education, recreation, and other public improvements; and to conserve
expenditure of public funds for public improvements and services to conform
with the most advantageous use of land, resources, and properties, and with
reasonable consideration of, among other things, the character of each
district, its peculiar suitability for particular uses, the conservation of
property values and natural resources, and the general and appropriate trend
and character of the land, buildings, and population development as studied and
recommended by the Planning Commission and endorsed within regulations enacted
by the City Council.
(Ord., § 104, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.005  INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered minimum standards within
each zoning district and shall not preclude establishment of higher or more
restrictive standards during authorization of any special use permit, where
higher standards are deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to achieve the
intent and purposes of this chapter.
(Ord., § 105, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.006  VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   Sections of this chapter shall be deemed severable and should any section,
division, or provisions hereof be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a
whole or any part thereof, other than the part declared to be invalid for
whatever reason. Further, if any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare
invalid the application of any provision of this chapter invalid as to a
particular lot, parcel of land, condominium unit, building or structure not
included in said ruling.
(Ord., § 106, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.007  SCOPE.
   (A)   Where any standard imposed by this chapter upon any lot, parcel,
condominium unit, building, or structure is either more or less restrictive
from any other ordinance of the city, the requirement which imposes a higher
standard shall apply.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate, covenant, or private
agreement affecting real property; provided that where this chapter imposes a
higher standard or condition than the private agreement, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern.
   (C)   Every use of land, building, or structure built, altered, relocated,
enlarged, or demolished in any manner which requires a building permit after
the effective date of this chapter, shall be subject to all regulations
contained herein which are applicable to the zoning district in which the use
of land, building, or structure is located.
   (D)   Building setbacks and lot areas existing at the effective date of this
chapter shall not be reduced below the minimum requirements of this chapter.
Setbacks and lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet
at least the minimum requirements established herein.
(Ord., § 107, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.008  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as and unless otherwise provided in this chapter, notice of proposed
rezoning and amendments shall be given as follows.
   (A)   Proposed rezoning of an individual property or of ten or fewer
adjacent properties.  If a proposed rezoning involves an individual property or
ten or fewer adjacent properties, the Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing at which the
proposed rezoning will be considered stating the public hearing’s time, date,
and place;
      (2)   Send a copy of the notice stating the nature of the rezoning
request and the time, date, and place of the public hearing by first-class mail
or personal delivery to the person requesting the rezoning and to all persons
to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the boundary of the
property in question and to the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of
the boundary of the property in question, regardless of whether the property or
occupant is located within the zoning jurisdiction. If a tenant’s or other
occupant’s name is not known, the term “occupant” may be used; and
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing the notice shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the request;
         (b)   Indicate the property or properties that is or are the subject
of the request. The notice shall include a listing of all existing street
addresses within the property; provided, however, that street addresses do not
need to be created and listed if no such addresses currently exist within the
property. If there are no street addresses, other means of identification may
be used; and
         (c)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Proposed rezoning of 11 or more adjacent properties.  If a proposed
rezoning involves 11 or more adjacent properties, the Planning Commission
shall:
      (1)   Publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city not less than 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing at which the
proposed rezoning will be considered stating the public hearing’s time, date,
and place; and
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing the notice shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the request;
         (b)   Indicate the property or properties that is or are the subject
of the request; and
         (c)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (C)   Amendments or supplements to this chapter.
      (1)   A proposed amendment or supplement shall be first submitted to the
Planning Commission, which shall hold at least one public hearing. Notice of
the public hearing shall be given as follows:
         (a)   As to the proposed rezoning of an individual property or the
proposed rezoning of ten or fewer adjacent properties, notice of the public
hearing shall be given as provided in division (A) of this section;
         (b)   As to the proposed rezoning of 11 or more adjacent properties,
notice of the public hearing shall be given as provided in division (B) of this
section;
         (c)   As to any other proposed amendment or supplement to this
chapter, notice of the public hearing shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city not less than 15 days prior to
the date of the public hearing at which the proposed amendment or supplement
will be considered. The notice shall state the public hearing’s time, date, and
place.
      (2)   As to any proposed amendment or supplement to this chapter, notice
of the time and place of the public hearing shall also be given by mail to each
electric, gas, and pipeline public utility, each telecommunication service
provider, each railroad operating within the district or zone affected, and the
airport manager of each airport that registers its name and mailing address
with the City Clerk Treasurer for the purpose of receiving the notice of public
hearing.
      (3)   Each notice of a public hearing on a proposed amendment or
supplement to this chapter shall include the places and times at which the
proposed text and any maps of this zoning ordinance may be examined.
      (4)   Following a public hearing on a proposed amendment or supplement to
this chapter the Planning Commission shall transmit a summary of comments
received at the hearing together with the proposed amendment or supplement to
this chapter, including any zoning maps and recommendations, to the City
Council.
   (D)   Protest petitions; super majority required.  A proposed amendment or
supplement to this chapter is subject to a protest petition. If a protest
petition is filed, approval of the proposed amendment or supplement to this
chapter shall require a two-thirds affirmative vote. The protest petition must
be presented to the City Council before final legislative action is taken on
the proposed amendment or supplement and shall be signed by one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The owners of at least 20% of the area of land included in the
proposed change;
      (2)   The owners of at least 20% of the area of land included with an
area extending outward 100 feet from any point on the boundary of the land
included in the proposed change; or
      (3)   Publicly owned land shall be excluded in calculating the 20% land
area requirement in divisions (D)(1) and (2) above.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.009  CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this chapter.
      (1)   The particular shall control the general.
      (2)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The
word “may” is permissive.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural and the plural the
singular.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words not
herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  A structure customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal structure and located on the same zoning lot as
the principal building.
      ACCESSORY USE.  A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the land or building and located on the same zoning lot as the
principal use.
      ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION.  The installation of a building foundation in
conformance with this chapter and the County Building Code at the time of
construction.
      ADJACENT (LOT OR PARCEL).  A lot or parcel which abuts another parcel or
is directly across or directly on the opposite side of a public street right-
of-way or private easement from another lot or parcel.
      AGRICULTURE.  Any land or building used for pasturage, floriculture,
dairying, horticulture, viticulture, and livestock and poultry husbandry.
      ALLEY.  Any dedicated public right-of-way, affording secondary means of
access to abutting property not intended for general vehicle use nor as the
primary means of access to property.
      ALTERATIONS.  Any change, addition, or modification in construction, or
type of occupancy, any change in the structural members of a building, such as
load-bearing walls, columns beams, girders, the consummated act which may be
referred herein as ALTERED or RECONSTRUCTED.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.  General repair, engine rebuilding, or reconditioning
of motor vehicles; collision service collision service such as body, frame, or
fender straightening or repair; glass and trim shops; and painting.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.  A structure used for the retail sale or
supply of fuels, lubricants, air, water, and other operating commodities for
motor vehicles or boats, and including the customary space and facilities for
the installation of such commodities on or in such vehicles and including space
for storage, motor repair servicing, but not including bumping, painting, or
refinishing.
      BASEMENT.  A portion of a building partly below grade, accessible from
the interior of the building and affording headroom for standing, and having
more than one-half of its height below grade.
      BOARDING (OR ROOMING) HOUSE.  A dwelling other than a hotel or motel,
where meals and lodging are provided for compensation to three or more persons
by pre-arrangement, but not for transients.
      BUILDING.  Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof
supported by columns or walls, and intended for shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
      BUILDING CODE.  The Building Code of Hillsdale County, as amended.
      BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from the established
grade to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line
of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on sloping terrain, the
HEIGHT may be measured from the average ground level of the grade at the
building wall.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The building official of Hillsdale County or his or
her authorized representative.
      CLINIC.  Any establishment where human patients are examined or treated
by professional medical personnel, but not hospitalized overnight.
      CLUB.  An organization of persons for special purposes or interests for
the promulgation of agriculture, sports, arts, science, literature, politics or
the like, but not for profit, and open only to members, and not the general
public.
      COMMON LAND.  A parcel(s) of land with improvements thereon, the use,
maintenance, and enjoyment of which are intended to be shared by owners or
occupants of individual buildings in a subdivision or condominium projects.
      CONDOMINIUM UNIT.  The portion of a condominium project or site
condominium subdivision which is designed and intended for separate ownership
and use, as described in a master deed creating the project, regardless of
intended use. The owner of a CONDOMINIUM UNIT also owns a share of the common
land or common elements described in the master deed. The terms CONDOMINIUM
UNIT and SITE CONDOMINIUM shall be considered the equivalent of “lot” for the
purpose of this chapter with respect to lot size, minimum lot width, maximum
lot coverage, and maximum floor area ratios.
      CONGREGATE HOUSING.  A dwelling unit(s) provides shelter and service for
elderly persons. This may include meals, housekeeping, and personal care
assistance. Such a facility offers a semi-independent lifestyle, but does not
provide on-site intensive health care, nursing, the dispensing of medications
and so on.
      CORRECTIONAL FACILITY.  Any lot or parcel and/or buildings intended for
use as a prison, reformatory, jail, or detention facility for youth or adults,
including so-called halfway houses in which persons convicted of crime reside
under supervision of a guard or counselor.
      COUNCIL.  The City Council of Reading.
      CUL-DE-SAC.  A dead-end street or private access easement that ends in a
circular section which provides for vehicle turnaround.
      DAY CARE FACILITY.  A facility for the care of children under 18 years of
age, as licensed and regulated by the state under Public Act 116 of 1973, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128, and the associated rules of the State
Department of Social Services. Such organizations are further defined as
follows. 
         (a)   CHILD CARE CENTER.  A facility, other than a private residence,
receiving more than 12 preschool or school age children for group care for
periods of less than 24 hours a day, and where parents or guardians are not
immediately available to the child. It includes a facility that provides care
for not less than two consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of
care per day. The facility is generally described as a child care center, day
care center, day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative preschool, play
group, or drop-in center. CHILD CARE CENTER does not include Sunday school
conducted by a religious institution or a facility operated by a religious
organization where children are cared for during short periods of time while
persons responsible for such children are attending religious services.
         (b)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.  A private home in which one but not more
than six minors are received for care and supervision for periods of less than
24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. It
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more than four weeks
during a calendar year.
         (c)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME.  A private home in which more than six but
not more than 12 children are given care and supervision for periods of less
than 24 hours a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. It
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more than four weeks
in a calendar year.
      DECELERATION LANE.  An added roadway lane that permits vehicles to slow
down before turning, which is adjacent to but not part of a through or moving
lane of a public street.
      DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units developed per acre of land,
excluding public street rights-of-way or right-of-way included in a private
street easement.
      DETENTION BASIN FOR STORM WATER.  A storm water holding facility intended
to hold and gradually release storm water into an established public drainage
course.
      DISTRICT.  A portion of the city within which on a uniform basis, certain
uses of land and buildings are permitted, as set forth in this chapter, or
within which certain lot areas are established or within which a combination of
such aforesaid conditions are applied.
      DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENTS.  A business establishment so developed that its
retail or service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or
drive-up window for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor
vehicle rather than within a building or structure.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A building used or designed as a residence
for three or more families living independently of each other, and subject to
the same aesthetic compatibility and other standards as outlined for single-
family dwellings below.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached residence designed or occupied by
one family only with housekeeping and cooking facilities, complying with the
following standards. 
         (a)   The dwelling shall contain a minimum of seven hundred (720)
square feet of living area and comply with BOCA Property Maintenance Codes for
minimum allowance.
         (b)   The dwelling shall have a minimum width of 24 feet along any
exterior side elevation of the principal living area, exclusive of porches not
a part of the main living area.
         (c)   The dwelling shall have a minimum floor-to-ceiling height of
seven and one-half feet.
         (d)   The dwelling shall be connected to a public sewer and public
water supply.
         (e)   The dwelling shall comply in all respects with the County
Building Code.
         (f)   The dwelling shall comply in all respects with applicable fire
codes and regulations and other applicable ordinances.
         (g)   The dwelling shall be firmly attached to a frost-free foundation
constructed on the site in accordance with the County Building Code and, in the
case of manufactured housing, in accordance with the specifications of the
manufacturer. Except in an approved mobile home park, all manufactured or
mobile homes shall be set upon a masonry foundation. Metal skirting shall not
be allowed.
         (h)   The dwelling shall contain storage space either in a basement or
closet spaces or in a separate, fully enclosed structure on the site, which
aggregate storage space shall be not less than 15% of the interior living area
of the dwelling.
         (i)   All dwelling shall be aesthetically compatible in design and
appearance to other dwellings in the neighborhood with not less than two
exterior doors, with one being in the front of the home and the other being
either in the rear or side of the home.
         (j)   All dwellings shall have a stone, brick, block concrete, or wood
foundation coextensive with the perimeter of the structure, not including
minimal projections or cantilevers, or in the case of a dwelling which has a
foundational support not coextensive with the perimeter of the structure, a
wall or skirting material constructed to be coextensive with the perimeter of
the structure and similar in appearance to a stone, brick, block, concrete, or
wood foundation to give the appearance of a standard foundation. Said
foundation wall shall be durably constructed to last the life of the structure,
and shall be installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         (k)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located
in a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by the state law
or otherwise specifically required in the ordinances of the city.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two families living independently of each other, and subject to
the same aesthetic compatibility, and other standards as outlined for single-
family dwellings above.
      DWELLING UNIT.  One or more rooms with independent cooking facilities
designed as a unit for residence by one family.
      DWELLING UNIT, ATTACHED.  Any dwelling unit that shares a common interior
wall with another dwelling unit.
      DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED.  Any dwelling unit which does not share a common
wall with another dwelling unit.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICE.  The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of
overhead or underground gas, electrical, steam, or water distribution or
transmission systems, collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles, electrical
substations, gas regulator stations, telephone exchange buildings, public
utility or municipal buildings, and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public health or safety or general welfare, shall be permitted
as authorized or regulated by law and other ordinances of the city in any use
district, it being the intention thereof to except such erection, construction,
alteration, and maintenance from the application of this chart.
      FAMILY.  One or two persons or parents, with their direct descendants and
adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof) together with
not more than two unrelated persons living together in the whole or part of a
dwelling comprising a single housekeeping unit.
      FENCE.  An accessory structure intended for use as a barrier to property
ingress or egress, a screen for privacy from objectionable view or noise, or
for decorative purposes.
      FLEA MARKET.  A space, lot, or building where three or more persons or
vendors sell to the general public new or used goods, furniture, antiques,
crafts, novelties, or other merchandise.
      FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition or partial or
complete inundation of typically dry land from an overland flow of water or
water accumulation as a result of a rainstorm.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Land which, on the basis of available flood
information, is subject to a 1% chance of flooding in any given year.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The sum of all floors of a building measured from the
outside dimensions of such building. Unenclosed porches, courtyards, open
patios, or deck shall not be considered as part of the GROSS FLOOR AREA, except
when they are used for commercial purposes such as for display of merchandise.
      FLOOR AREA, USEABLE.  Gross floor area less interior spaces used for
hallways, closets, mechanical and electrical equipment, storage, stairwells,
and restrooms. USEABLE FLOOR AREA shall be the basis on which to determine
required vehicles parking spaces under terms of this chapter.
      FOSTER CARE FACILITY.  An establishment which provides supervision,
assistance protection and personal care, in addition to room and board, to
persons. A FOSTER CARE FACILITY is other than a home for the aged or nursing
home licensed under Public Act 139 of 1956, as amended, or a mental health
hospital licensed under Public Act 151 of 1923, as amended.
      GARAGE, COMMERCIAL.  A facility available to the public or operated for
financial gain and used for storage, repair, rental, serving, washing, sale, or
equipping motor vehicles.
      HISTORIC DISTRICT.  An area or group of areas in near proximity that
contain one or more resources that are related to history, archaeology, or the
culture of the city. The city may establish one or more HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
      HOME OCCUPATION.  An incidental and secondary use of a dwelling unit for
business purposes.
      HOTEL.  A building containing guestrooms in which lodging is provided
with or without means for compensation and which is open to transient [or]
permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any
guest rooms. A HOTEL may include a restaurant or a cocktail lounge, public
banquet halls, ballrooms, or meeting rooms.
      JUNK.  Any discarded material or article including but not limited to
scrap metal, scrapped, abandoned, or junked motor vehicles, machinery
equipment, paper, glass, containers, and structures. It shall not include,
however, refuse or garbage kept in a proper container for the purpose of prompt
disposal.
      JUNK YARD.  An open area where waste, used, or second-hand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, packed, disassembled, or handled, including
but not limited to scrap iron and other metal, paper, rags, rubber tires, and
bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards and includes any area
of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping, or abandonment of junk, but
does not include materials stored entirely within enclosed buildings.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL.  Any lot or premises on which more than four or more
dogs, cats, or other household pets are either permanently or temporarily
boarded or bred or sold.
      LOADING SPACE.  An off-street space, on the same lot with a building or
group of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading
and unloading merchandise or materials.
      LOT.  Land which is vacant or occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings together with such yards and open spaces as are required under the
provisions of this chapter. This term includes a site condominium unit. All
LOTS hereafter created must conform to requirements of this chapter, unless
they have been recorded in the County Register of Deeds and were in conformance
with the zoning requirements then in effect.
      LOT, ACCESS.  Any lot hereafter created shall have direct access to a
public street, must have the required minimum lot width abutting the public
street, and conform to minimum lot area requirements of this chapter.
      LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines exclusive of
any portion of the right-of-way of any public street.
      LOT, CORNER.  A lot at the junction of and fronting on two or more
intersecting street rights-of-way.
      LOT COVERAGE.  The part or percentage of the lot occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  An interior lot having frontages on two more or
less parallel streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
      LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance from the front lot line to the
rear lot line.
      LOT, FLAG.  A lot created having less than the required lot as specified
herein. If such lot has been created in violation of this chapter or prior
zoning ordinances of the city, it may not be used for any new use or for
constructing a building until and unless it conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
      LOT LINES.  The property lines bounding the lot as defined herein. 
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE.  In the case of a lot abutting upon one public
or private street,  the line separating such lot from such street right-of-way.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE.  The lot line that is opposite and most distant
from the front lot line of the lot.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is an interior
SIDE LOT LINE.
      LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which actually exists in a subdivision plat or
recorded site condominium subdivision as shown in the Register of Deeds of the
county or has lawfully been assigned a property tax identification number.
      LOT WIDTH.  The mean horizontal distance between the side lines, measured
at right angles to the side lot lines. Where side lot lines are not parallel
the lot width shall be considered the average of the width between such side
lot lines.
      MASTER DEED.  The set of documents recorded and which contain a
condominium plan, and covenants, bylaws, easement descriptions, survey, and
related documents pertaining to ownership units, limited and general common
elements of a condominium project developed or to be developed under terms of
Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended.
      MASTER PLAN.  The document containing development policies, future land
use plan and related plans, together with supporting documentation, as most
recently adopted by the City Planning Commission pursuant to Public Act 285 of
1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., as amended.
      MOBILE HOME.  Any vehicle or building without motive power designed
functionally as a dwelling unit and for periodic movement upon a highway as
defined and regulated by the Mobile Home Commission Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.2301 through 125.2350. This term shall include those vehicles commonly
referred to as a trailer, house trailer, trailer coach, or manufactured
housing, but shall not include those vehicles commonly referred to as travel
trailers or recreational vehicles.
      MOTEL.  A series of attached, semi-detached, or detached rental units
containing bedroom, bathroom, and closet space wherein such a unit has a
separate individual entrance leading directly from the outside of the building.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.  A building or portion thereof lawfully existing
at the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereof, and that does not
conform to the provisions of the ordinance in the district in which it is
located.
      NONCONFORMING USE.  Any pre-existing use of land or building which does
not conform to requirements of this chapter at this time of the adoption of
this chapter or amendments thereto, to the regulations other than height, area,
and yard requirements for the district in which it is located. A
LAWFULNONCONFORMING USE is a use that when established was conforming to zoning
ordinance requirements then in effect and may be continued exactly as it
existed at the time it was established. An ILLEGAL NONCONFORMING USE is one
which when established was in violation of the zoning regulations then in
effect and shall be considered a nuisance per se and shall immediately be
discontinued.
      OFF-STREET PARKING AREA.  A facility providing vehicular parking spaces
along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering as to provide access for
entry and exit for the parking of more than two automobiles.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING.  A building in which is conducted the main use of the
lot upon which it is situated.
      PRINCIPAL USE.  The main lawful use to which the premises are devoted and
the main purpose for which the premises exist.
      PUBLIC, PAROCHIAL, AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS.  Institutions offering courses in
general education not operated for profit.
      PUBLIC STREET.  Any right-of-way by easement or ownership operated by the
city, County Road Commission, or the State Department of Transportation. No
part of any such right-of-way shall be considered when determining compliance
with required building setback, lot area, or other dimensional requirement of
this chapter.
      REAL VALUE (a.k.a. MARKET OR TRUE CASH VALUE).  The assessed value
multiplied by the city assessment factor.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A self-propelled vehicle designed as a travel unit
for occupancy as a temporary or seasonal living unit, and not exceeding 300
square feet in area. A RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is not a dwelling under term of
this chapter.
      REFUSE STORAGE SPACE.  Any exterior area, which is not a principal
permitted use, for placement of container structures or other receptacle
intended for temporary storage of solid waste materials.
      SETBACK LINE.  A line defining the minimum front, side, and rear yard
requirements outside of which no building or structure may be located.
      SEWERS, PUBLIC.  A public sewer system shall be defined as a system of
pipes and structures including pipes, channels, conduits, manholes, pumping
station, sewage or waste treatment works, diversion and regulatory devices,
out-fall structures, and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually
used or intended for use by the general public or a segment thereof, for the
purpose of collecting, conveying, transporting, treating, or otherwise handling
sanitary sewage of such a nature as to be capable of adversely affecting the
public health; operated and maintained by the general public, residential
district or area, firm, or corporation.
      SIGN.  Any structure or natural object such as a tree, rock, and the
ground itself or device attached thereto or planted or represented thereon,
which is used to attract attention to any object, product, place, activity,
person, institution, organization, or business and which includes any letter,
word model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device, or representation used as
or which is in representation of an announcement, direction, or advertisement.
For the purposes of this chapter, the word SIGN does not include the flag,
pennant, or insignia of this nation, state, city, or other political unit, or
any political, charitable, or civic or like campaign or event, nor does it
include legal notices, address, or official signs of any governmental agencies.
      SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.  Any sign situated on privately owned land on
which appears pictorial or written information about a commercial enterprise
which is not a principal permitted use or permitted accessory use on the same
lot or parcel. OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS are not permitted in the city, unless
licensed by the state.
      SITE CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION.  A division of land intended for ownership
as a condominium unit under provisions of Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, which is not subject to provisions of
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
      SITE PLAN.  A scaled drawing or set of drawings illustrating existing
conditions on land and all proposed improvement to the land, and which meets
all requirements of this chapter.
      STREET.  A public dedicated right-of-way, other than an alley, which
affords traffic circulation and principal means of access to abutting
properties.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having such location on the
ground, but not limited to all buildings, freestanding signs, and utility power
transmission poles, and not including sidewalks, drives, fences, and patios.
      SUBDIVISION (or PLAT).  Divisions of land pursuant to Public Act 288 of
1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended, for which plans
are drawn and recorded in conformance with said Act and ordinances of the city.
      TOURIST HOME.  A dwelling in which lodging is provided by a resident
family in its home for compensation, mainly for transients. A TOURIST HOME may
be called a bed and breakfast establishment. A TOURIST HOME is not a hotel,
motel, or a boarding house.
      TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle designed as a travel unit for occupancy as a
temporary or seasonal living unit, capable of being towed by a passenger
automobile or a light-duty truck, and not exceeding 300 square feet in area.
      YARDS.  The open spaces on the same lot with a principal building between
the principal building and the nearest lot line and unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except for accessory structures and uses or such
projections as are expressly permitted by this chapter.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending the full width of the lot and
lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
         (b)   YARD, REAR.  An open space extending the full width of the lot
and lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the
principal building.
         (c)   YARD, SIDE.  An open space between the side line of the lot and
the nearest line of the principal building and extending from the front yard to
the rear yard.
      VARIANCE, DIMENSIONAL.  A relaxation or modification of any dimensional
requirement contained in this chapter based on specific practical difficulty,
as determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and which is not self-imposed as
a result of action(s) by the landowner or applicant.
      VARIANCE, USE.  A use allowed in any zoning district that is not
otherwise permitted. A use variance by the City Zoning Board of Appeals is not
permitted under terms of this chapter.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Manager of the City of Reading shall be
appointed as Zoning Administrator. The City Manager may designate a subordinate
to undertake administrative and enforcement duties under terms of this chapter.
      ZONING BOARD.  The Planning Commission of the City.
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.  The City Zoning Board of Appeals created under
authority of Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as
amended, and continued under the authority of Public Act 110 of 2006.
      ZONING DISTRICT.  A portion of the city within which certain unique
regulations apply uniformly under provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., § 202, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.020  ZONING MAP.
   A map, entitled City of Reading Official Zoning Map, is hereby adopted and
incorporated as part of this chapter (see
Appendix A). The Official Zoning Map shall be kept on file available for
examination at City Hall.
(Ord., § 301, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.021  ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into districts stated in this chapter as
shown by the district boundaries on the Zoning Map.
   (B)   The districts are known as the following:
R-1 Low Density Residential District
R-2 Moderate Density Residential District
R-3 High Density Residential District
O   Office District
B-1 Highway Commercial District
B-2 Central Business District
I-1 Industrial District
I-2 Industrial Park District
 
(Ord., § 302, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.022  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundaries shown within lines of streets, streams, and
transportation rights-of-way shall be deemed to coincide unless approximately
lot or property lines, said lines shall be deemed to coincide unless otherwise
indicated. When location of a district boundary is uncertain, the Board of
Appeals shall interpret the exact location of the district boundary.
(Ord., § 303, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.023  ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the city shall, immediately upon such annexation, be
automatically classified as an R-1 (Residential District) until a zoning map
for said area has been adopted by the Council.
(Ord., § 304, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.024  INTENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The intent and purposes of the districts are set forth below. 
   (A)   R-1 (Low Density Residential Districts).  The R-1 Low Density
Residential District is designated principally for single-family residential
use and uses normally associated with residential neighborhoods. Buildings with
two to four dwelling units may by permitted by special use permit, subject to
yard area and other requirements of this chapter. Commercial and industrial
uses are excluded in order to reduce excessive noise, traffic, and congestion.
   (B)   R-2 ((Moderate Density Residential District).  This district is
intended for moderate density placement of single-family and multiple-family
residential use. Buildings with two to eight dwellings may be permitted by
special use permit, subject to yard area and other requirements of this chapter
and subject to location in accordance with the adopted Master Plan for the
city.
   (C)   R-3 (High Density Residential District).  This district is intended
for high density residential and multiple-family use, subject to location in
accordance with the adopted Master Plan for the city.
   (D)   O (Office District).  This district is intended for limited area
adjacent to the Central Business District and portions of Main Street and
Michigan Avenue. This district will encourage adaptive reuse of older buildings
and large homes. It is expected that such allowing adaptive use will coincide
with restoration of those buildings and homes in a historically correct manner.
   (E)   B-1 (Highway Commercial District).  This district is intended to
provide for various commercial establishments offering accommodations,
supplies, and services requiring visibility to this district, and should be
located along a major street or state highway. This district should be visible
from and access directly to major thoroughfares and should encourage grouping
of various facilities into centers and discourage dispersion and strip
development of these activities.
   (F)   B-2 (Central Business District).  This district is intended to
encompass the retail, service, and office establishments that form the Downtown
Business District and which provide retail convenience and comparison goods and
service for the trade area. The nature and high density and intensity of
commercial and related uses in this district eliminate the necessity for yard
and lot requirements. Only uses that are compatible in such a higher density
environment are permitted.
   (G)   I-1 (Industrial District).  The I-1 Industrial District is designed to
provide suitable space for industrial uses which are primarily of a
manufacturing and assembling character, to operate in a safe, non-
objectionable, and efficient manner, without adverse effects on the residential
and commercial areas in the city. Provisions for visual and sound buffers are
required as well as reasonable separation by distance between industrial uses
and residential uses in the vicinity.
   (H)   I-2 (Industrial Park District).  The I-2 Industrial Park District is
limited to the area included in the established City Industrial Park. The
standards for this district parallel private land use covenants in place for
the entire industrial park property, excepting provisions herein for visual and
sound buffer wherever an industrial use is adjacent to existing or planned
residential land use.
(Ord., § 305, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.025  DISTRICT AREA, YARD, HEIGHT, AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent.  The minimum lot area, minimum width of lot, minimum front
yard, and minimum width of each side yard, minimum rear yard, maximum rear
yard, maximum structure height, and maximum lot coverage for each district
shall be in accordance with the Schedule of Regulations table in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Schedule of regulations.
Schedule of Regulations
Zoning   Minimum Lot    Minimum Lot Setbacks                      Maximum Lot
District Area (Sq. ft.) Width       (Front/Sides / Maximum Height Coverage
         (1)                        Rear)
R-1 Residential
Schedule of Regulations
Zoning       Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Setbacks                      Maximum Lot
District     Area (Sq.   Width       (Front/Sides / Maximum Height Coverage
             ft.)(1)                 Rear)
R-1 Residential
1-family     9,600       66 ft.      20/10/35       25 ft.         25%
dwelling
1-family     15,000(2)   100 ft.     30/15/35       25 ft.         15%
dwelling
2-family     7,600(3)    100 ft.     30/15/35       25 ft.         25%
dwelling
3–4 family 7,600(3)    120 ft.     40/20/40       30 ft.         25%
dwelling
R-2 Residential
1-family     7,200(3)    66 ft.      20/10/30       25 ft.         25%
dwelling
2-family     6,000(3)    80 ft.      20/10/30       25 ft.         30%
dwelling
3–6 family 5,000(3)    120 ft.     40/20/40       35 ft.         35%
dwelling
R-3 Residential
1-family     7,200(3)    66 ft.      20/10/30       25 ft.         25%
dwelling
2-family     6,000(3)    80 ft.      20/10/30       25 ft.         30%
dwelling
3–8 family 4,000(3)    120 ft.     40/20/40       35 ft.         35%
dwelling
9+ family    4,000(3)    140 ft.     40/20/40       35 ft.         35%
dwelling
O Office     6,000(3)    66 ft.      20/10/35       30 ft.         40%
B-1 Highway  12,000(3)   80 ft.      50/10/30(4)    30 ft.         40%
Commercial
B-2 Central  No minimum  None        0/0/0          35 ft.         100%
Business
1-           40,000(3)   200 ft.     75/50/50(4)    40 ft.         50%
1 Industrial
I-
2 Industrial 40,000      150 ft.     50/15/15(5)    40 ft.         50%
Park
(1) For all residential districts, the minimum lot area shown is per dwelling
unit
(2) Without public sanitary sewer, but with an approved on-site septic tank
and drain field
(3) Not permitted unless served by public sanitary sewer
(4) If abutting residential use and area are planned for residential use, the
required minimum setback shall be increased by 50% of the amount stated
(5) 50 feet if abutting or facing any residential use or residential zoning
district
 
(Ord., §§ 307, 307.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.026  HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to safeguard the heritage of
the city by preserving a district in the city which reflects elements of its
cultural, social, economic, political, or architectural history; to stabilize
and improve property values in such district; to foster civic beauty; to
strengthen the local economy; and to promote the use of historic districts for
the education, pleasure, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Overlay District.  This Historic Overlay District shall be a
superimposed district over the Zoning Map established by this chapter. The
regulations of this Overlay District are in addition to any regulations in the
underlying zoning districts. The regulations of this District supersede all
conflicting regulations of the underlying zoning districts to the extent of
such conflict and no further. The Historic Overlay map on the subsequent page
shall establish the Overlay District.
   (C)   Uses permitted.  Any land use permitted by right in the underlying
zoning district shall be permitted in this Overlay District subject to the
requirements of this Overlay District. Any land use permitted by special use
permit in the underlying land use district shall be permitted in this Overlay
District, subject to the standards, conditions, and approvals required for a
special use permit in addition to the requirements of this Overlay District.
   (D)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Because of the unique historic character of the central business
area of the city no development, preservation, and beautification will be
permitted without a site plan approval by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In addition to the requirements for preparation of a site plan,
pursuant to division (E) of this section, the site plan shall also include:
         (a)   A rendering of exterior architectural features, along with a
notation of materials and colors proposed to be used;
         (b)   A rendering of proposed signs, lamp posts, structures on
sidewalks; and
         (c)   A rendering of the building, in relationship to the surrounding
area, such as but not limited to adjacent buildings.
      (3)   At least two copies of the renderings shall remain as file copies
with the site plan.
   (E)   Historic standards.  In addition to the standards for site plan
review, pursuant to division (F) of this section, standards shall also include
the following consideration. In reviewing plans, the Planning Commission shall
give consideration to:
      (1)   The historic or architectural value and significance and its
relationship to the historical value of the surrounding area, using design
guidelines which address exterior features of the building;
      (2)   The relationship of the exterior architectural features of the
structure, including but not limited to signs, lamp posts, structures on
sidewalks, to the rest of the structure and to the surrounding area; and
      (3)   The general compatibility of exterior design, arrangement, texture,
and materials proposed to be used.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall pass only on exterior features of
a structure and shall not consider interior arrangements.
         (b)   In case an application for repair or alteration affecting the
exterior appearance of a structure or for the moving or demolition of a
structure which the Planning Commission deems so valuable that the loss thereof
will adversely affect the overall character of the historic area, the Planning
Commission shall endeavor to work out with the owner an economically feasible
plan for preservation of the structure.
         (c)   An application for repair or alteration affecting the exterior
appearance of an historic structure, or for its moving or demolition, shall be
approved by the Planning Commission if any of the following conditions prevail,
and if in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the proposed changes will
materially improve or correct these conditions.
            1.   The structure constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public
or its occupants.
            2.   The structure is a detriment to a major improvement program
which will be of substantial benefit to the community.
            3.   Retention of the structure would cause undue financial
hardship to the owner.
            4.   Retention of the structure would not be in the best interest
of the majority of the community.
   (F)   Review procedure.
      (1)   Review procedure.  Review of a site plan shall be as provided for
in §
152.106.
      (2)   Site plan.  When reviewing a site plan, the site plan shall be
approved if there is substantial compliance with the guidelines as set forth in
this chapter. All decisions of the Planning Commission related to the historic
preservation aspect of site plan reviews shall be appealed to the Zoning Board
of Appeals, if the disagreement with a review decision is based on substantial
evidence.
(Ord., § 308, passed 6-11-2002)
DISTRICT USES
§ 152.040  USES IN DISTRICTS.
   Permitted and special land uses for each district are set forth in the
District Use Schedule set out in §§
152.041 through
152.048. Any use not expressly listed for a district is prohibited in that
district. Special land uses require the review and approval of the Planning
Commission subject to the provisions of §§
152.105 and
152.106.
(Ord., § 306, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.041  R-1 (LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (2)   Home occupation;
      (3)   Family day care home;
      (4)   Essential services; and
      (5)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted uses.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Agricultural;
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Swimming pool clubs;
      (5)   Public, private, and parochial schools;
      (6)   Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, recreational
facilities, community centers;
      (7)   Golf courses;
      (8)   Funeral homes, ambulance service;
      (9)   Beauty parlor with a maximum of one operator, two chairs and in
compliance with the schedule in §
152.068(C);
      (10)   Real estate sales;
      (11)   Tourist home;
      (12)   Two-family dwelling;
      (13)   Home occupation in single-family dwelling; and
      (14)   Group day care home.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.042  R-2 (MODERATE DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Multiple-family building, with three to eight dwelling units;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Convalescent homes;
      (4)   Churches;
      (5)   Family and group care facilities;
      (6)   Swimming pool clubs;
      (7)   Tourist homes;
      (8)   Boarding, rooming, or lodging house;
      (9)   Essential services; and
      (10)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted uses.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (2)   Medical and dental clinics;
      (3)   Mobile home park;
      (4)   Public, private, and parochial schools;
      (5)   Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, recreational
facilities, community centers;
      (6)   Hospitals for humans;
      (7)   Home occupation in single-family dwelling; and
      (8)   Child care center.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.043  R-3 (HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Multiple-family building, with up to eight dwellings per building;
and
      (2)   As permitted in the R-2 District.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Multiple-family building, with more than eight dwellings per
building; and
      (2)   As permitted by special use in the R-2 District.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.044  O (OFFICE DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Abstracting service;
      (2)   Accounting/bookkeeping;
      (3)   Architectural/engineering/planning;
      (4)   Banking/credit union;
      (5)   Blueprinting/copy service;
      (6)   General business offices;
      (7)   Chiropractor/optometry/medical/dental, other health services;
      (8)   Securities broker/insurance service;
      (9)   Government services;
      (10)   Locksmith;
      (11)   Real estate broker;
      (12)   Tailor/seamstress; and
      (13)   Travel agency.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Advertising service-direct mail;
      (2)   Antiques-retail;
      (3)   Art gallery/music or photo studio;
      (4)   Banking drive-up window;
      (5)   Funeral home/mortuary;
      (6)   Church/synagogue or place of worship; and
      (7)   Television/radio/CATV studio.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.045  B-1 (HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Automobile service stations;
      (2)   Eating and drinking establishments, both drive-in and non-drive-in
types;
      (3)   Motels;
      (4)   Commercial indoor and outdoor amusement;
      (5)   Self-service laundromats and dry cleaning establishments; and
      (6)   Retail businesses that sell foods, drugs, liquor, and notions.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Radio and television sending or boosting stations;
      (2)   Outdoor lawn and garden supplies and equipment;
      (3)   Outdoor motor vehicle, trailer, boat sales and service;
      (4)   Drive-in theaters;
      (5)   Animal clinics and kennels;
      (6)   Automobile sales and repair;
      (7)   Professional offices and services;
      (8)   Convalescent homes; and
      (9)   Other similar and compatible uses as determined by the Planning
Commission and approved as a special land use.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.046  B-2 (CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Business services, including banks, loan offices, insurance
offices, and real estate offices;
      (2)   Indoor retail business which supplies commodities, such as but not
limited to food, drugs, liquor, furniture, clothing, dry goods, notions, or
hardware;
      (3)   Offices and office buildings of an executive, administrative, or
professional nature;
      (4)   Personal services, such as but not limited to repair shops
(watches, radio, television, shoe, and the like), tailor shops, beauty parlors,
barber shops, photographers, and dry cleaners;
      (5)   Eating and drinking establishments of a non-drive-in type;
      (6)   Indoor commercial amusements;
      (7)   Newspaper offices and printing shops;
      (8)   Skilled trade services including plumbing, electrical, and heating;
      (9)   Business schools, including but not limited to dance schools, music
and voice schools, art studios;
      (10)   Clubs, fraternal, and lodge halls;
      (11)   One dwelling unit located above the ground floor in an existing
commercial building;
      (12)   Essential services including offices; and
      (13)   Accessory structures customarily incidental to the above permitted
uses.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Ambulance service;
      (2)   Automobile service stations;
      (3)   Automobile repair;
      (4)   Small animal clinics, except kennel;
      (5)   Offices; and
      (6)   Other similar and compatible uses as determined by the Planning
Commission and as approved as a special land use.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.047  I-1 (INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Warehousing and wholesale sales establishments;
      (2)   Vehicle sales and service;
      (3)   Truck terminals;
      (4)   Printing plants;
      (5)   Building material sales;
      (6)   Storage facilities for building materials, equipment, and supplies;
      (7)   Research and testing laboratories;
      (8)   Essential services including offices and maintenance depots;
      (9)   Assembly of articles or merchandise from previously prepared
materials;
      (10)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses;
      (11)   Offices of an executive, administrative, or professional nature;
and
      (12)   Retail sales of products manufactured or processed on site. Sales
are limited to 25% of gross floor area.
   (B)   Special land uses.
      (1)   All manufacturing actually involving the conversion, treatment, or
procession of raw material or previously processed material into another form;
      (2)   Bulk fuel storage;
      (3)   Sewage disposal plants;
      (4)   Incineration plants;
      (5)   Airports;
      (6)   Sanitary landfills; and
      (7)   Power generating plants.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.048  I-2 (INDUSTRIAL PARK DISTRICT).
   (A)   Permitted uses.  Same as uses permitted in the I-1 Industrial
District.
   (B)   Special land uses.  Same as uses permitted by special land use in the
I-1 Industrial District.
(Ord., § 306.1, passed 6-11-2002)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.060  NONCONFORMITIES.
   All nonconforming buildings and structures, nonconforming uses of land or
structures, and nonconforming lots shall comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Intent of provisions. 
      (1)   Nonconforming uses, buildings, and structures, and nonconforming
lots are incompatible with and often detrimental to nearby permitted uses,
structures, and lots, and land in the zoning districts in which they are
located; they cause disruption of the comprehensive land use pattern of the
city; and they may inhibit present and future development of nearby properties.
      (2)   It is the intent of this chapter to limit expansion of
nonconforming buildings and structures and to eliminate nonconforming uses.
      (3)   It is the intent of this chapter to limit expansion of
nonconformities shall not further depart from requirements of this chapter. A
variance shall not be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals having the effect
of increasing the degree of existing nonconformity.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership, or management of any
existing nonconforming use of land or structure, provided there is no change in
the nature or character of such nonconforming use.
      (2)   Uses of land or structures existing prior to the enactment of this
chapter, which are listed as special land uses in the district in which they
are located, shall not be considered as nonconforming uses, but shall be deemed
a conforming use in such district without further action. However, any
expansion in conformance with this chapter shall require a special use permit
issued by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use
only if the Planning Commission finds the proposed use to be more appropriate
to the district than the existing nonconforming use.
      (4)   Any building or structure, parcel of land, or building and land in
combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted
use, shall not thereafter be devoted to any use other than those uses which are
permitted in the district in which the structure or land is located.
   (C)   Nonconforming building and structure.  Any nonconforming building or
structure may be continued subject to the following provisions. 
      (1)   A nonconforming building or structure may not be enlarged or
structurally altered in any manner which increases the nonconformity.
Expansions of nonconforming buildings may be permitted by right, so long as any
expansion or alteration conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Should any nonconforming building or structure be destroyed by any
means to an extent of more than 50% of its true cash value, exclusive of the
foundation, at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should such building or structure be moved from the lot or parcel
or relocated on the lot or parcel, it shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the district in which it is located after it is moved.
   (D)   Nonconforming use of buildings.  Nonconforming uses of structures may
be continued subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   A nonconforming use shall not be relocated from one parcel to
another.
      (2)   When a nonconforming use of a building is discontinued or ceases to
exist for six consecutive months, the building shall not thereafter be used
except in conformance with the regulations in the district in which it is
located.
      (3)   If the nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 90 consecutive days, the nonconforming uses shall not be
reestablished and any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership, or management of any
existing nonconforming use of land, provided there is no change in the nature
or character of such nonconforming use.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses of land.  Nonconforming uses of land may be
continued subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   A nonconforming use shall not be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If the nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 90 consecutive days, the nonconforming uses shall not be
reestablished and any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership, or management of any
existing nonconforming use of land, provided there is no change in the nature
or character of such nonconforming use.
   (F)   Nonconforming lots. 
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory structures may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lots fail to meet the
requirements for area, or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width, or both, of the lots shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located. For existing lawful lots of record
located within a zoning district other than R-1 or R-2, buildings on such lot
shall require site plan review and approval by the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall seek to achieve conformance with requirements of this
chapter, to the degree which it deems reasonable.
      (2)   If two or more contiguous lots or parcels or combinations of lots
in single ownership are of record at the effective date of this chapter, [but]
do not meet the requirements for lot width and area as established by this
chapter, the lots or parcels shall be considered as one for the purpose of this
chapter, and no portion of said lots or parcels shall be built upon or occupied
except in conformance with requirements of this chapter, shall any division of
the lots or parcels be made.
(Ord., § 401, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.061  ACCESSIBILITY TO PUBLIC STREET.
   A zoning permit shall not be issued nor a site plan approved for any
building or land use activity on a lot or parcel having less than the required
lot width fronting on a public street, except in the case of a lawful
nonconforming lot of record.
(Ord., § 402, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.062  HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   Exceptions to the maximum heights regulations for each district specified in
§§
152.041 through
152.048 of this chapter may be permitted subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Height limitations.  The limitations affecting the height of
structures to the following appurtenance appendages and structures, provided
they comply with all other provisions of this or any other applicable
ordinance: parapet walls, chimneys, smokestacks, silos, church spires,
flagpoles, radio and television towers, masts and aerials, penthouses for
mechanical equipment and water tanks; and
   (B)   Increases in building height.  Building height in excess of the height
above average ground level allowed in any district may be permitted, provided
minimum front, side, and rear yard depths are increased one foot of height, and
provided that adequate fire protection can be demonstrated.
(Ord., § 403, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.063  APPLICATION OF YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following provisions shall apply to the yard requirements specified in
this chapter. 
   (A)   Setback lines.  All front, side, and rear yard setback lines shall be
minimum perpendicular distance measured from the structure, excluding all
projections not exceeding three feet in length from the structure wall to the
respective front, side, or rear lot line; provided, however, the point of
measurement of such front, side, or rear lot line shall be at a point within
the subject lot and on a line which will measure not less than 20 feet in
length and is parallel to the side of the structure from which the distance is
measured.
   (B)   Accessory structures.  All accessory structures in any district shall
be subject to the same dimensional requirements affecting the principal
structure; except, however, in residential districts, such accessory structure
may be placed not less than three feet from any rear lot line or the rear yard
portion of any side lot line; provided, however, no such structure shall be
built closer than the minimum front yard or side yard setback required on the
lot upon which the structure is proposed or upon the contiguous lot closest to
the location of such accessory structure, nor shall any structure be placed
closer than the established setback from any street right-of-way.
   (C)   Corner and double frontage lots.  Lots that abut on more than one
street shall provide the required front yards along each street.
   (D)   Yard for single building.  No space which for the purpose of a
building has been counted or calculated as part of a side yard, or front yard,
required by this chapter shall be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply
with a yard requirement for any other building.
   (E)   Nonresidential buildings.  Principal buildings of a nonresidential use
hereafter constructed or uses hereafter established shall not be located or
conducted closer to any lot line in any of the residential districts than a
distance of 40 feet.
(Ord., § 404, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.064  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Accessory structures and uses, except as otherwise permitted in this
chapter, shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Yard requirements.  All accessory structures in any district shall be
subject to the same yard requirements affecting the principal structure;
except, however, in residential districts, detached accessory structures may be
placed not less than three feet from any rear lot line or the rear yard portion
of any side lot line; provided, however, no such structure shall be built
closer than the minimum front yard or side yard setback required on the lot
upon which the structure is proposed or upon the contiguous lot closer to the
location of such accessory structure.
   (B)   Bulk requirement.  Accessory structures shall not occupy more than 25%
of the required rear yard.
   (C)   Placement of structure.  No detached accessory structure shall be
located closer than ten feet to any principal building.
(Ord., § 405, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.065  VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   In all districts no obstruction, including but not limited to structure,
wall, fence, or planting in excess of 30 inches in height, shall be placed on
any corner lot within 30 feet of the point of intersection of the two street
right-of-way lines.
(Ord., § 406, passed 6-11-2002)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066  FLOODPLAINS AND FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, land subject to
periodic flooding shall be used only for the following uses:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, provided no structures are located within the
area subject to flooding; and
      (2)   Recreational uses, provided no structures are located within the
area subject to flooding.
   (B)   The location and boundaries of land subject to periodic flooding shall
be determined by reference to the United States Soil Conservation Service,
State Water Resources Commission, or other official authority.
(Ord., § 407, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.067  SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any structure
upon any lot within any district, which lot cannot meet the dimensional
standards and requirements of such district and which lot was created after the
enactment of this chapter, after the enactment of any amendment which affects
such standards or requirements.
(Ord., § 408, passed 6-11-2002)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068  OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Generally.  Off-street parking on all districts shall be provided in
accordance with the following minimum specifications whenever any new use is
established or an existing use is enlarged. Such off-street parking space shall
be maintained and shall not be encroached upon by any structures or other uses
so long as the principal structure remains, unless an equivalent number of such
spaces are provided elsewhere in conformance with this chapter.
   (B)   Space requirements.  The minimum number of off-street parking spaces
required are set forth in the schedule of off-street parking spaces in division
(C) of this section. Where a use is not specifically mentioned, requirements
for similar uses shall apply and shall be interpreted by the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Schedule of off-street parking spaces.
Uses Required Spaces
Uses                                    Required Spaces
Assembly halls, churches, mortuaries,   1 per 3 seats or per 21 square feet of
theaters, lodges, and clubs             assembly space, whichever will require
                                        the largest number of parking spaces
                                        1 per 50 square feet of office space
Automobile service stations             plus 2 per hoist with a minimum of 5
                                        spaces
Beauty or barber shops                  2 for each beauty or barber chair
                                        1 per bed or 1 per 100 square feet of
Boarding, rooming, or lodging houses    gross floor space, whichever will
                                        require the larger number of parking
                                        spaces
Bowling alleys                          7 per lane
Business services establishments except 1 per 100 square feet of sales space on
as otherwise specified                  ground floor area not including loading
                                        and unloading space
Convalescent homes, home for the aged   1 per each 2 beds
Dwelling units                          2 per dwelling
                                        4.5 per classroom; or 1 per 3 permanent
                                        seats or per 63 square feet of assembly
High schools                            space in each assembly hall, whichever
                                        will require the largest number of
                                        parking spaces
Hotels                                  1 per rooming unit plus 1 for each
                                        employee
Industrial establishments               1 for each 2 employees in the largest
                                        working shift
Laundromats and coin operated dry       1 for each 2 machines
cleaners
Medical and dental clinics              1.5 per 200 square feet of floor area
                                        with not less than 10 spaces
Miniature golf                          3 for each 1 hole
Motels                                  1 per rooming unit plus 1 for each
                                        employee
Nursery, elementary, and junior high    1 per classroom plus 5; or 1 per 9
schools                                 permanent seats
Personal service establishments, except 1 per 30 square feet of sales area but
as otherwise specified herein           with not less than 10 spaces
Poolrooms, archery, and other indoor    1 per 50 square feet of activity area
amusement facilities
Professional offices of architects,     1 per 200 square feet of floor space
attorneys, accountants, engineers, and  with not less than 3 spaces
the like
Restaurants and bars                    1 per 2 seats
Retail store of appliances, furniture,  1 per 300 square feet of sales area but
motor vehicles, hardware, lumber, and   with not less than 10 spaces
building materials
Retail stores, except as otherwise
specified herein with a minimum of 5    1 per 100 square feet of sales area
spaces
Swimming pool clubs                     1 for each member of family or
                                        individuals plus 1 for each employee
 
   (C)   Location of off-street parking area.  All required off-street parking
spaces, whether public or private, for nonresidential uses shall be on the same
lot as the principal building to be served. If located in the B-2 Central
Business District, required parking may be located within 300 feet of the
building it is intended to serve as measured from the nearest point of the
building to the nearest point of the off-street parking area. Within the B-
2 District, public parking spaces may be counted toward the required parking
spaces. Parking spaces required for dwelling units shall be located on the same
lot as the dwelling unit.
   (D)   Collective parking.  Two or more buildings or uses may collectively
provide the required off-street parking, in which case the required number of
parking spaces shall be not less than the sum of the requirements for the
various individual uses computed separately.
   (E)   Requirements cumulative.  The parking requirements for all uses
proposed on a parcel of land shall be cumulative, unless the Planning
Commission shall find that the parking requirements of a particular land use
occurs at different hours from those of the other land uses such that such
particular land use parking requirements can be advantageously used by other
land uses, in which event the parking spaces for such particular land uses need
not be required.
   (F)   Off-street parking area design and construction.  Whenever a parking
lot is constructed as required off-street parking, such parking lot shall be
laid out and constructed in accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each parking space shall constitute a net area of not less than 200
square feet. The total lot space, including access lanes, shall constitute at
least 300 square feet per parking space.
      (2)   Ingress and egress points shall be located to minimize traffic
congestion and avoid undue interference with pedestrian movement. There shall
be no more than two clearly defined access ways abutting on any one street for
each parking lot. Approval for the location of exits and entrances shall be
obtained from the County Road Commission, City Planner, or City Engineer.
      (3)   Where a parking lot does not abut on a public street, there shall
be provided an access drive leading to the parking area not less than 20 feet
in width.
      (4)   Any off-street parking area shall be surfaced with a durable,
dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained to eliminate surface water
accumulation; and further shall be provided with a masonry retaining wall if
necessitated by a difference in elevation with adjoining lots.
      (5)   Off-street parking area shall be surfaced with a durable, dustless
surface, and shall be graded and drained to eliminate surface water
accumulation; and further shall be provided with a masonry retaining wall if
necessitated by a difference in elevation with adjoining lots.
      (6)   Off-street parking shall be no closer than five feet from each
property line; provided, however, that a wood or metal fence may be constructed
on the property line.
      (7)   The off-street parking area shall be subject to approval of the
Planning Commission to ensure its adequacy, relation to traffic safety, and
protection of the adjacent property.
      (8)   Any person desiring to establish a parking area as an accessory use
in a residential district shall submit plans to the Planning Commission showing
the location, size, shape, design, landscape, curb cuts, and other features of
the parking lot.
(Ord., § 409, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.069  OFF-STREET LOADING.
   Off-street loading shall be provided in accordance with the specifications
in this section in all districts whenever any new use is established or an
existing use is enlarged.
   (A)   Space required.  Every building which requires the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise shall provide off-street
loading berths in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Retail commercial uses.  All retail sales facilities exceeding
10,000 square feet in area shall provide two loading spaces plus one loading
space for every 30,000 square feet of floor space over 10,000 square feet; and
      (2)   Industrial and wholesale commercial.  All industrial and wholesale
commercial land uses shall provide one loading berth for each 10,000 square
feet of floor space, with a minimum of not less than two loading spaces.
   (B)   Site and access.  All loading spaces shall be located and designed to
avoid traffic hazard to public use of all public rights-of-way or any required
access aisles for off-street parking areas. Each loading space shall be not
less than ten feet in width, 50 feet in length, and 15 feet in height.
   (C)   Location of loading docks.  A loading dock shall not be located or
positioned so as to be in direct line of sight with any dwelling unit. Screen
walls or large evergreen trees may be used to screen direct view, subject to
approval of a detailed site plan by the Planning Commission.
(Ord., § 410, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.070  SIGNS.
   No sign shall be permitted except as herein provided. 
   (A)   General requirements.  In any district all signs shall comply with the
following general requirements.
      (1)   There shall be no flashing, oscillating, or intermittent type or
illuminated sign located within the city limits.
      (2)   No sign shall project over public rights-of-way except those
established and maintained by the city, township, county, state, or federal
governments.
      (3)   No sign shall project above the maximum height limitation for the
district in which located.
      (4)   A zoning compliance permit shall be required for the erection,
construction, or alteration of any sign, except as hereinafter provided, and
all such signs shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator as to their
conforming to the requirements of the district wherein such sign or signs are
to be located and the requirements of this section.
      (5)   No sign shall resemble any official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal.
      (6)   No sign shall be placed nearer any street than one-half the minimum
building setback line required for the zoning district in which the sign is to
be located.
      (7)   All directional signs required for the purpose of orientation, when
established by the city, township, county, state, or federal government shall
be permitted in all districts.
   (B)   Signs in residential districts.  No sign shall be permitted in the
residential districts except as herein provided:
      (1)   One non-illuminated real estate or construction sign not exceeding
eight square feet in area will be permitted on any property being sold, leased,
or developed. Such sign will be removed promptly when it has fulfilled its
function;
      (2)   One sign with a surface area not exceeding six square feet which
identifies the use on the premises for any permitted or conditionally permitted
use in the respective residential district in which the property is located;
and
      (3)   One bulletin board not exceeding 18 square feet in area will be
permitted in connection with any church, school, or similar public structure.
   (C)   Signs in business and industrial districts.  In business and
industrial districts, no sign shall be permitted except as herein provided.
      (1)   One sign in connection with any legal commercial or industrial use
or structure will be permitted on the premises of the business, provided such
sign carries no information beyond the name, symbol, and nature of the
business; provided that, if said commercial use or structure faces more than
one road, one sign shall be allowed on each road frontage.
      (2)   They shall contain no information or advertising for any product or
service not sold or processed on the premises.
      (3)   They shall have an aggregate area not greater than one and one-half
square feet for each foot of width of the principal building on the premises.
(Ord., § 411, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.071  MOBILE HOME PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All mobile home parks shall comply with the Mobile Home Act of 1987,
being Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350.
   (B)   In addition, the following standards shall apply. 
      (1)   No minimum area is required for a mobile home park development.
      (2)   Mobile home sites shall be at least 3,230 square feet in area.
Setback requirements are determined by Rules 941 and 944 of the Mobile Home
Code.
      (3)   Minimum widths of roadway within the park shall be as follows. 
 
Motor Vehicle Parking      Traffic Use Minimum Pavement Width
Parking prohibited         1-way road  13 feet
Parking prohibited         2-way road  21 feet
Parallel parking (1 side)  1-way road  23 feet
Parallel parking (2 sides) 1-way road  33 feet
Parallel parking           2-way road  31 feet
Parallel parking (2 sides) 2-way road  41 feet
 
(Ord., § 412, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.072  PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING MOBILE HOME PARK APPROVAL.
   (A)   Pre-application conference(s) are held with the Zoning Administrator
and Planning Commission to obtain information and guidance in preparing the
application.
   (B)   Applications for the mobile home park are submitted with the site
plans and descriptive statement to the City Manager.
   (C)   The City Manager shall distribute copies to the Planning Commission
for review.
   (D)   A public hearing on the application and site plan before the Planning
Commission is scheduled and held.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall, following the public hearing, either
approve the application as submitted, approved with conditions, or deny the
application, specifying the reasons for denial.
   (F)   If approved, construction of the Mobile Home Park shall commence
within one year following approval by the Department of Commerce.
(Ord., § 413, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.073  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   A home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for residential purposes. Home occupations may include but are
not limited to art studios, dress making, professional offices of physicians,
dentists, lawyers, engineers, architects, or teaching, with musical instruction
limited to not more than two pupils at a time. However, a home occupation shall
not be interpreted to include barbershops or beauty parlors; commercial stables
or kennels; real estate offices; restaurants; or repair services.
   (B)   The following additional conditions shall be observed:
      (1)   The occupation is customarily carried on in a dwelling unit or in a
structure or building accessory to the dwelling unit;
      (2)   The occupation is carried out by a member of the family residing in
the dwelling unit with not more than one employee outside the family;
      (3)   The occupation is carried on wholly within the principal structure
or accessory structure;
      (4)   There shall be no exterior display, exterior sign other than
permitted by §
152.070, no exterior storage of material, and no exterior indication of the
home occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal
structure; and
      (5)   There shall be no commodity sold on the premises except that which
was made on the premises.
(Ord., § 414, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.074  MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   A multiple-family dwelling or building shall not be permitted unless served
by a public sanitary sewer operated by the city.
(Ord., § 415, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.075  FENCES AND HEDGES.
   Fences are permitted, subject to the following conditions. 
   (A)   (1)   Fences on all lots of record in all residential districts which
enclose property and/or are within a required side or rear yard shall not
exceed six feet in height, measured from the surface of the ground, and shall
not extend toward the front of the lot nearer than the front of the house or
the required minimum front yard, whichever is greater.
      (2)   On a corner lot in all residential districts, no fence or other
obstruction to vision above a height of three and one-half feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets shall be erected, placed, or
maintained within the triangular yard space formed by the intersecting street
lines and a line joining points on such street lines 30 feet from the point of
the street lines.
   (B)   Fences located within the required front yard setback shall not exceed
42 inches in height. Plant materials within ten feet of the front lot line
shall not exceed 42 inches in height.
(Ord., § 416, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.076  TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   Temporary structures used in conjunction with construction work shall be
permitted only during the period that the construction work is in progress.
Permits for temporary structures shall be issued for a six-month period by the
Zoning Administrator. One renewal for an additional six months may be permitted
if construction of the building is ongoing and timely. Using a basement as a
dwelling unit before issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the total
structure shall not be permitted.
(Ord., § 417, passed 6-11-2002)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.077  JUNK YARDS AND SIMILAR STORAGE AREAS (INCLUDING AUTOMOBILE
WRECKING).
   All junk yards shall be completely screened from roads and adjoining lands
by an opaque fence or wall eight feet or more in height, maintained in good
condition, and of uniform color and appearance.
(Ord., § 418, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.078  “USE BY RIGHT” BUILDING ON A LOT.
   In all residential districts, the following shall apply. 
   (A)   Not more than one “use by right” building shall be placed on any lot
of record.
   (B)   On unplatted property, not more than one “use by right” building shall
be placed within the minimum lot areas established for residential uses in §
152.025(B).
(Ord., § 419, passed 6-11-2002)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.090  ZONING CHAPTER ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   The City Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrator and such other
officials as it from time to time determines by resolution to administer and
enforce this chapter and to initiate and prosecute violations. The Zoning
Administrator is hereby expressly authorized to issue municipal civil
infractions for violation of this chapter.
(Ord., § 501, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.091  ZONING COMPLIANCE AND BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally.  No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
hereinafter located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted,
or enlarged or moved unless a zoning compliance permit shall have first been
issued for such work, without a compliance permit having been obtained from the
Zoning Administrator. Once a zoning compliance permit is approved, a building
permit may be applied for from the Building Inspector of the county.
   (B)   Zoning compliance permit. 
      (1)   The City Council shall establish a compliance permit fee that shall
be paid to the city when the zoning compliance permit application is filed with
the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   For portable accessory structures of less than 100 square feet of
area, or for other construction projects where the Building Inspector has
determined that no building permit is required, no compliance permit shall be
required.
   (C)   Zoning compliance permit application.  A compliance permit application
is to be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   All applications for compliance permits shall be accompanied by
plans showing the following:
         (a)   The actual shape, location, and dimensions of the lot;
         (b)   The shape, size, and locations of all buildings or structures to
be erected, altered, or moved and of any building or other structures already
on the lot;
         (c)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all structures
upon it, including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate; and
         (d)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as
may be essential in determining whether the provisions of this chapter are
being observed.
      (2)   The owner of the premises shall sign the application or an
authorized agent.
   (D)   Compliance permit fee.  Fees for the issuance of permits or
certificates or copies thereof required or issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be collected by the Zoning Administrator in advance of issuance.
The amount of such fees may be established by resolution of the Council.
   (E)   Building permit issuance.  Whenever the buildings, structures, and
uses as set forth in the application have been issued a zoning compliance
permit and, if required, obtained site plan approval, the County Building
Official may issue the applicant a building permit. Where action of the Board
of Appeals or the Planning Commission is required in any case, as set forth in
this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning compliance
permit unless approval has been granted. In any case where a permit is refused,
the reason(s) shall be stated in writing to the applicant.
   (F)   Zoning compliance permit expiration.  For any zoning compliance permit
for which no work is commenced within six months following the date of
issuance, said permit shall expire by limitation and fees forfeited. A
reapplication and payment of the fee is required upon expiration of any permit
previously issued, subject to the provisions of all ordinances in effect at the
time of renewal.
(Ord., § 502, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.092  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No land, building, or part thereof shall hereafter be occupied by or
for any use unless and until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
by the County Building Official.
   (B)   The following shall apply in the issuance of any certificate: until a
certificate has been issued no person shall occupy or use any structure
hereafter constructed, reconstructed, moved, altered, or enlarged; or [missing
text]
(Ord., § 503, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.093  AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, on recommendation from the Planning
Commission, or on its own motion or petition, amend, supplement, modify, or
change this chapter in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Public
Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702. Any petition for
or request for an amendment or supplement to this chapter, other than by the
City Council, as a prerequisite to the acceptance or consideration of such a
petition or request, shall be accompanied by a fee that is from time to time
set by resolution of the City Council. The fee so paid shall be used to defray
the expense of publishing the required notices and the other expenses of the
Planning Commission and Council associated and incurred in connection with the
consideration of the petition.
(Ord., § 505, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
SPECIAL LAND USE/SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 152.105  SPECIAL LAND USES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The formulation and enactment of this chapter is based upon the
division of the city into districts in each of which are permitted compatible
uses; however, there are certain other uses which may be necessary or desirable
to allow in certain locations in certain districts, but because of their actual
or potential impact on neighboring uses or public facilities, need to be
carefully regulated with respect to their location for the protection of the
city.
      (2)   Such uses, on account of their peculiar location need or the nature
of the service offered, may have to be established in a district in which they
cannot be reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
   (B)   Authority to grant permits.  The Planning Commission, as hereinafter
provided, shall have the authority to grant special use permits, subject to
such conditions of design, operation, and safeguards as the Planning Commission
may determine for all special land uses specified in the various district
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Application and fee.  The application for any special land use permit
permissible under the provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Planning
Commission through the Zoning Administrator by filing an official special land
use permit application form, submitting a site plan in accordance with §
152.106, and depositing the required fee as established by resolution of the
City Council, except that no fee shall be required of any governmental body or
agency. No part of such fee shall be returnable to the applicant.
   (D)   Application and site plan requirements.  An application for a special
land use permit shall include the applicant’s name and address in full, a
statement that the applicant is the owner of the property, and a site plan as
specified in and in conformance with §
152.106.
   (E)   Public hearing.  The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
upon any application for a special land use permit. The special land uses and
activities that are eligible for approval are those that are specified as such
in the various district provisions of this chapter.  Upon receipt of an
application for a special land use which requires discretionary decision:
      (1)   The city shall publish notice of the request in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city;
      (2)   Notice of the request shall also be sent by mail or personal
delivery to:
         (a)   The owners of property for which approval is being considered;
         (b)   All persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of
the property for which approval is being considered, regardless of whether the
assessed property is located within the zoning jurisdiction; and
         (c)   To the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the
property for which approval is being considered, regardless of whether the
occupant is located within the zoning jurisdiction; provided that, if the name
of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant” may be used in making
notification under this section.
      (3)   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date the
application will be considered for approval. The notice shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the request;
         (b)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the request by
including a listing of all existing street addresses within the property;
provided, that street addresses do not have to be created and listed if no such
addresses exist within the property on the date the request is submitted, in
which case other means of identification may be used;
         (c)   State when and where the request will be considered; and
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (F)   Required standards and findings for making determinations.  The
Planning Commission shall review the site plan submitted in accordance with §
152.106 for proposed conditional uses in terms of the following standards and
required findings, and shall find and record adequate data, information, and
evidence showing that such a use on the proposed site, lot, or parcel meets or
does not meet these standards. 
      (1)   Development standards applying to all proposed conditional uses
include:
         (a)   The proposed special land use shall be harmonious with and in
accordance with the general objectives, intent, and purposes of this chapter;
         (b)   The proposed special land use shall be designed, constructed,
operated, maintained, and managed so as to be harmonious and appropriate in
appearance with existing or intended character of the general area;
         (c)   The proposed special land use shall be served adequately by
essential public facilities and services, such as highways, streets, police and
fire protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal; or the persons or
agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to
provide adequately any such service;
         (d)   The proposed special land use shall not be hazardous or
disturbing to existing or future neighboring uses; and
         (e)   The proposed special land use shall not create excessive
additional requirements at public costs for public facilities and service.
      (2)   Development standards applying to specific proposed special land
use: a special land use permit shall not be issued for the uses specified in
this division unless complying with the site development requirements as herein
specified. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions and
safeguards when deemed necessary by that body in accordance with this division
(F).
   (G)   Determination and imposition of conditions.  If the facts in the case
do not establish beyond a reasonable doubt that the findings and standards set
forth in this chapter will apply to the proposed use, the Planning Commissions
shall not issue a special land use permit. In approving a special land use
permit the Planning Commission shall impose such conditions of use as it deems
necessary to protect the best interest of the city and achieve the objectives
of this chapter.
   (H)   Approval, approval with conditions or denial of special land use
permit.  Upon holding a public hearing and the finding that the requirements of
divisions (C) through (E) above have been satisfactorily met by the applicant,
the Planning Commission shall within 30 days approve, approve with conditions,
or deny the special land use application. If approved, the special land use
permit shall be issued to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall not
issue a zoning compliance permit until a copy of the special land use permit,
signed by the Planning Commission Secretary, has been received.
   (I)   Voiding of special land use permit.
      (1)   A special land use permit shall become null and void upon any of
the following occurrences:
         (a)   Construction or use of the property has not commenced in
accordance with the requirements, conditions, and safeguards of the permit
within 365 days of the date on which it was granted;
         (b)   Progress toward completion of the development for which the
special land use permit was granted is not continuous and ongoing. For purposes
of this division (I), CONTINUOUS AND ONGOING shall mean the performance of
regular work during a Monday through Saturday workweek without interruption
that exceeds 14 continuous calendar days or a total of ten workdays within any
30-day period; or
         (c)   There is a violation of a requirement, condition, or safeguard
of the special land use permit.
      (2)   No special land use permit may be terminated or cancelled except
upon a determination by the Planning Commission’s written findings of fact
following a duly noticed public hearing that one or more of the grounds for
termination set forth in division (I)(1) above exists. Notice of the public
hearing at which consideration will be given to the termination of a special
land use permit shall be given as follows.
         (a)   The city shall publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall also be sent by mail or personal
delivery to:
            1.   The owners of property for which a special land use permit has
been granted;
            2.   All persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet
of the property for which a special land use permit has been granted,
regardless of whether the assessed property is located within the zoning
jurisdiction; and
            3.   To the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the
property for which a special land use permit has been granted, regardless of
whether the occupant is located within the zoning jurisdiction; provided, that
if the name of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant” may be used in
making notification under this section.
      (3)   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date of
the hearing. The notice shall do all of the following:
         (a)   Describe the reason(s) for the proposed termination;
         (b)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the hearing by
including a listing of all existing street addresses within the property;
provided, that street addresses do not have to be created and listed if no such
addresses exist within the property on the date the request is submitted, in
which case other means of identification may be used;
         (c)   State when and where the hearing will be held and the matter
considered; and
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the issues involved.
(Ord., § 601, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.106  SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Generally.  It is recognized by this chapter that there is value to
the public in establishing safe and convenient traffic movement to higher
density sites, both within the site and in relation to access streets; that
there is value in encouraging a harmonious relationship of buildings and uses
both within a site and in relation to adjacent uses; further that there are
benefits to the public in conserving natural features. Toward this end, this
chapter requires site plan review by the Planning Commission for certain
buildings and structures that can be expected to have a significant impact on
natural resources, traffic patterns, and on adjacent land usage.
   (B)   Buildings, structures, and uses requiring site plan.  The Zoning
Administrator shall not issue a zoning compliance certificate nor shall the
Building Inspector issue a building permit for the construction of the
buildings and structures identified in this section unless a site plan has been
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission and such approval is in
effect:
      (1)   Any special land use;
      (2)   A multiple-family building containing three or more dwelling units;
      (3)   More than one multiple-family building on a lot, parcel, tract of
land, or on a combination of lots under one ownership;
      (4)   A mobile home park;
      (5)   An office in any residential district; and
      (6)   Any gasoline service station abutting a residential district.
   (C)   Application and fee for site plan review.  Any person may require a
request for a site plan review by the Planning Commission by filing with the
Zoning Administrator a completed application upon the forms furnished by the
and payment of a fee established by resolution of the city. Fees applicable to
site plan reviews for planned unit developments and conditional uses are waived
in lieu of fees established by resolution of the City Council for these
purposes. As an integral part of said application, the applicant shall file at
least ten copies of the site plan.
   (D)   Planning Commission review of site plan.  Upon receipt of complete
application materials from the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission
shall undertake a study of the same and shall, within 30 days, approve, approve
with conditions, or deny such site plan, advising the applicant in writing of
the decision. Any site plan failing to meet requirements of this chapter shall
be denied and the reasons for denial set forth in the minutes of the Planning
Commission meeting at which the decision to deny was made.
   (E)   Required data for site plan.  Every site plan submitted to the
Planning Commission shall be in accordance with the following requirements. 
      (1)   Every site plan submitted, except site plans required for uses as
prescribed in division (E)(2) below, shall be drawn to a readable scale and
shall include the following:
         (a)   The name of the applicant, scale used, a north arrow, the date
prepared, and the name and address of the preparer if other than the applicant;
         (b)   All property boundaries and dimensions thereof; the location and
use of all existing and proposed structures;
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed streets, parking lots,
driveways, utilities, and other improvements to be constructed or used as a
part of the project; and
         (d)   The current zoning classifications on the subject property and
all adjacent property.
      (2)   Site plans submitted for the following conditional uses shall be
subject to the requirements of this division (E):
         (a)   Travel trailer parks;
         (b)   Mobile home parks;
         (c)   Automobile service stations;
         (d)   Hotels or motels;
         (e)   Drive-in business;
         (f)   Automobile repair garages;
         (g)   Drive-in theaters;
         (h)   Junk yards;
         (i)   Bulk oil storage;
         (j)   A multiple-family building structure containing three or more
dwelling units;
         (k)   More than one multiple-family building on a lot, parcel, or
tract of land, or on a combination of lots under one ownership;
         (l)   An office in any residential district; and
         (m)   Any gasoline service station abutting a residential district.
      (3)   Site plans submitted for the uses prescribed in division (E)(2)
above shall be submitted in accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   The site plan shall be of a scale not to be greater than one
inch equals 20 feet nor less than one inch equals 200 feet, and of such
accuracy that the Planning Commission can readily interpret the site plan, and
shall include more than one drawing where required for clarity.
         (b)   The property shall be identified by lot lines and location,
including dimensions, angles, and size, and correlated with the legal
description of said property. Such plan shall further include the name and
address of the property owner, developer, and registered design professional
that prepared the site plan.
         (c)   The site plan shall show the scale, north point, topography (at
least two-foot contour intervals), and natural features such as woodlots,
streams, rivers, lakes, grains and similar features.
         (d)   The site plan shall show existing humanmade features, such as
buildings, structures, high tension towers, pipelines, and existing utilities
such as water and sewer lines, excavations, bridges, culverts, drains, and
easements, and shall identify adjacent properties and their existing uses.
         (e)   The site plan shall show the location, proposed finished floor
and grade line elevations, size of the proposed principal and accessory
buildings, their relation one to another and to any existing structure on the
site, the height of all buildings, and the square footage of floor space. Site
plans for residential development shall include a density schedule showing the
number of dwelling units per net acre, including a dwelling schedule showing
the unit type and number of each unit types.
         (f)   The site plan shall show the proposed streets, driveways,
sidewalks, and other vehicular and pedestrian circulation features within and
adjacent to the site; also the location, size and number of parking spaces in
the off-street parking area and the identification of service lanes and service
parking.
         (g)   The site plan shall show the proposed location, use and size of
open spaces, and the location of any landscaping, fences, or walls on the site.
Any proposed alteration to the topography and other natural features shall be
indicated. The site plan shall further show any proposed location of
connections to existing utilities and proposed extensions thereof.
   (F)   Standards for site plan review. 
      (1)   In reviewing the site plan, the Planning Commission shall ascertain
whether the proposed site plan is consistent with all regulations of this
chapter and state and federal law. Further, in consideration of each site plan
the Planning Commission shall find that the provisions of divisions (D) and (E)
above as well as provisions of the zoning district in which said have been
satisfactorily met by the applicant. Decisions rejecting, approving, or
conditionally approving a site plan shall be based upon requirements and
standards contained in this chapter. A site plan shall be approved if it
contains the information required in division (E) above and is in compliance
with this chapter, the conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter, other
applicable ordinances, and state and federal statutes.
      (2)   In addition, each of the following standards shall apply.
         (a)   The use shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained
in a manner harmonious with the character of the adjacent property and the
surrounding area.
         (b)   The use shall not inappropriately change the essential character
of the surrounding area.
         (c)   The use shall not interfere with the natural environment of the
vicinity.
         (d)   The use shall not interfere with the general enjoyment of the
adjacent property.
         (e)   The use shall represent an improvement to the use or surrounding
area in general, yet also be in keeping with the natural environment of the
site.
         (f)   The use shall not be hazardous to adjacent property, or involve
uses, activities, materials, or equipment that will be detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare of persons or property through excessive production
of traffic, noise, smoke, odor, fumes, glare, or dust.
         (g)   Essential public facilities and services shall adequately serve
the use, or it shall be demonstrated that the person responsible for the
proposed use shall be able to continually provide for the services and
facilities deemed essential to the use under consideration.
         (h)   The use shall not place demands on public services and
facilities in excess of current capacity.
         (i)   The use shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
   (G)   Approval of site plan.  Upon the Planning Commission approval of a
site plan, the Commission shall file with the Zoning Administrator four copies
thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall, within ten (4) days, transmit to the
one copy to the Building Inspector, shall not issue a building permit until he
or she has received a certified approved site plan. The site plan as approved
by the Planning Commission shall become part of the official file record and
subsequent actions relating to the activity authorized shall be consistent with
the approved site plan.
   (H)   Expiration of site plan approval.  The approved site plan shall
expire, and be of no effect, 365 days after the date of approval if site or
building construction improvements have not been commenced.
   (I)   Revisions to approved site plan.  An approved site plan may be amended
by the Planning Commission upon the request of the applicant. Such amendment
shall be made upon application and in accordance with the procedure provided in
this section. Any fees specified by City Council shall be paid in connection
with such application.
   (J)   Performance bond.  A performance bond may be required by the Planning
Commission to insure the completion of required site improvements shown on the
approved site plan. Such bond may be up to an amount equal to the estimated
cost of the site improvement(s). The estimated cost of the site improvements
shall be made in writing to the Planning Commission by a registered engineer or
architect and shall be subject to review and approval of the City Engineer. The
bond may be in the form of cash or irrevocable letter of credit from an
insurance company or bank licensed to do business in the state or surety
construction bond. The cash, letter of credit, or surety bond shall be placed
on file with the City Clerk Treasurer. If cash, progressive release of funds on
deposit may be given, provided the Zoning Administrator certifies progress
toward project completion. Releases by the Clerk Treasurer shall be in not more
than four installments.
   (K)   Enforcement. 
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall through site inspections ascertain
that implementation of any development undertaken is in accordance with the
approved site plan, and notify the owner/developer and Planning Commission in
writing of any discrepancies therewith. The Zoning Administrator shall issue an
order to the owner/developer to conform to the approved site plan, listing
matters not in conformance and requiring correction.
      (2)   Upon notification of discrepancies in the implementation of the
approved site plan, the owner/developer shall have not more than 45 days to
correct deficiencies listed by the Zoning Administrator. Thereafter, the
Planning Commission may declare the performance bond forfeited and use the
proceeds to make corrections on the development site.
(Ord., § 602, passed 6-11-2002)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.120  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 110 of 2006, the State Zoning Enabling Act, the
City Zoning Board of Appeals created pursuant to Public Act 207 of 1921, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended, is hereby continued in existence and
shall continue to act as the City Zoning Board of Appeals, referred to in this
chapter as the Zoning Board of Appeals or ZBA, subject to the referenced Public
Act 110 of 2006. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall be constituted and appointed
as provided by the State Zoning Enabling Act and shall be comprised of five
regular members and two alternate members, each of which shall serve a term of
three years except for members serving because of their membership on the
Planning Commission or the City Council, whose terms shall be limited to the
time they are members of those bodies. Except as otherwise provided by the
State Zoning Enabling Act, all regular members serving on the Zoning Board of
Appeals on the effective date of this chapter shall continue to serve the
remainder of the term to which he or she was appointed pursuant to the previous
Act.
   (B)   It is also provided that:
      (1)   One member of the ZBA shall also be a member of the City Planning
Commission;
      (2)   One member of the ZBA may be a member of the City Council but shall
not serve as chairperson of the ZBA;
      (3)   A city employee or contractor may not serve as a member of the ZBA;
      (4)   All regular and alternate members of the ZBA shall be selected from
the electors of the city. The members selected shall be representative of the
population distribution and of the various interests present in the city;
      (5)   An alternate member may be called to serve as a member of the ZBA
in the absence of a regular member if the regular member will be unable to
attend one or more meetings or for the purpose of reaching a decision on a case
in which a member has abstained for reasons of conflict of interest;
      (6)   An alternate member called to serve shall serve on the case for
which he or she is called until a final decision is made and shall have the
same voting rights as regular member of the ZBA;
      (7)   A member of the ZBA shall disqualify himself or herself from a vote
in which the member has a conflict of interest. A member’s failure to
disqualify himself or herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of
interest constitutes malfeasance in office;
      (8)   The City Council may remove a ZBA member for misfeasance,
malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and after a public
hearing;
      (9)   A vacancy on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the same appointment;
      (10)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not conduct business unless the
majority of the regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals are present; and
      (11)   A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals who is also a member of
the Planning Commission or the Council shall not participate in a public
hearing on or vote on the same matter that the member voted on as a member of
the Planning Commission, or the City Council. However, the member may consider
and vote on other unrelated matters involving the same property.
(Ord., § 701, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.121  INTENT.
   The intent of the city in establishing and continuing the ZBA is to provide
for nonuse variances, to provide a means for interpreting this chapter, and to
provide a final means of administrative remedy for appeals of decisions made
pursuant to this chapter. The purpose of this chapter is to provide guidelines
and standards to be followed by the ZBA to act on matters where this chapter or
state law gives jurisdiction to the ZBA.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.122  RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The ZBA shall establish fixed rules and regulations governing its
procedures, meetings, operations, and actions. These rules shall be made
available to the public and shall be in conformance with this chapter, the
State Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702 and the
Open Meetings Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.123  AUTHORITY OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS GENERALLY.
   The ZBA shall have the authority to act on those matters where this chapter
or state law provides for jurisdiction. The ZBA shall have the authority to
interpret this chapter in accordance with the standards set forth in §
152.124. The ZBA shall have the authority to grant appeals from any
administrative decision, determination, or action by the Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, or the City Council pursuant to this chapter, in
accordance with the standards set forth in §
152.125. The ZBA shall have the authority to grant nonuse variances to the
strict application of this chapter in accordance, with the standards set forth
in §
152.126. The ZBA shall not have the authority to grant use variances, change
the zoning district classification of any property, or to amend this chapter in
any way.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.124  INTERPRETATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The ZBA shall have authority to hear and decide requests for interpretation
of this chapter, including the Zoning Map, in accordance with the standards set
forth in this section.
   (A)   Application.  Any property owner may file an application for a zoning
ordinance interpretation with the Zoning Administrator. Such application shall
include a fee as established from time to time by the City Council. The City
Council and the Planning Commission may also petition the ZBA for a Zoning
Ordinance interpretation by filing an application with the Zoning
Administrator, and in such case there shall be no fee required. The application
shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The property address and tax number for the property in question;
      (3)   A plot plan showing the property boundary lines and dimensions, and
the location and dimensions of existing and proposed structures; and
      (4)   A written narrative that describes the issue on which the zoning
ordinance is unclear or ambiguous and the nature and extent of the problem
created by the language of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Process.  The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
completeness. Once a completed application is received by the Zoning
Administrator, he or she shall forward the application to the Secretary of the
ZBA who shall schedule a meeting of the ZBA and place the application on the
agenda of that meeting. Such meeting shall be held no sooner than 15 days and
no more than 60 days from the date that notice of the meeting is provided
pursuant to the next following division (C).
   (C)   Notice of public hearing.  Upon receipt of an application for an
interpretation of the zoning ordinance, a notice stating the time, date, and
place of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the township and shall be sent to the person requesting the
interpretation not less than 15 days before the public hearing. In addition, if
the application for interpretation involves a specific parcel, written notice
stating the nature of the interpretation requested, and the time, date, and
place of the public hearing shall be sent by first-class mail or personal
delivery to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of
the boundary of the property in question and to the occupants of all structures
within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question. If a tenant’s or
other occupant’s name is not known, the term “occupant” may be used.
   (D)   Hearing.  At the hearing, a party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The ZBA shall consider the application for a zoning ordinance
interpretation at the public meeting. The ZBA shall allow for public comment on
the application. The ZBA shall consider the application in regard to the
standards set forth in division (E) below. The ZBA may request advice from the
Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission, the City Council, consultants
for the city, and any other party whose knowledge or expertise may assist the
ZBA with making an informed decision.
   (E)   Standards.  In considering and acting upon a request for a zoning
ordinance interpretation, the ZBA shall consider the following:
      (1)   Any interpretation issued by the ZBA shall be in keeping with the
text as well as the spirit and intent of the Master Plan;
      (2)   Any interpretation issued by the ZBA shall be in keeping with the
text as well as the spirit and Intent of the zoning ordinance, read as a whole;
      (3)   Any interpretation issued by the ZBA shall be in keeping with
reasonable and/or practical interpretations that have been consistently applied
in the administration of the ordinance;
      (4)   Any map or boundary interpretation shall be made based upon rules
in the ordinance, and any relevant historical information;
      (5)   Any interpretation issued by the ZBA shall be related to an issue
on which the zoning ordinance contains ambiguous, unclear, or conflicting
language;
      (6)   No interpretation shall be issued for an issue on which the zoning
ordinance is silent. The appropriate remedy for such issues is an amendment to
the zoning ordinance in accordance with §
152.093; and
      (7)   Any interpretation issued will serve to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the community, and shall not be injurious to adjacent and nearby
properties.
   (F)   Action.  When the ZBA finds that a request for a zoning ordinance
interpretation complies with each standard set forth in division (E) above, the
ZBA may approve the requested interpretation. When the ZBA finds that a request
does not comply with one or more of the standards, then the ZBA shall deny the
requested interpretation. The ZBA may approve a different interpretation than
that which was requested, when it finds that the alternative interpretation
complies with each standard.
   (G)   Record.  The Secretary of the ZBA shall notify the Secretary of the
Planning Commission of the ZBA’s action on all requested interpretations. The
Secretary of the Planning Commission shall maintain a public record of all
interpretations approved by the ZBA.
   (H)   Appeal of ZBA interpretation.  Any party aggrieved by an
interpretation of the ZBA may appeal to the County Circuit Court as provided in
and subject to M.C.L.A. § 125.3606 and M.C.L.A. § 125.3607.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.125  APPEALS.
   (A)   Generally.  The ZBA shall have the authority to hear and decide
appeals that are taken by an aggrieved person or by an officer, department,
board, commission, or bureau of the state or local government from any review,
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator, the Planning Commission, or the City Council, in the course of
enforcing this chapter. The ZBA shall and does have the authority to grant
nonuse variances relating to the construction, structural changes, or
alterations of buildings or structures related to dimensional requirements of
the zoning ordinance or to any other nonuse-related standard in the ordinance.
In addition, a nonuse variance in this chapter may be applied for and granted
under § 4 of the Uniform Condemnation Procedures Act, Public Act 87 of 1987,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 213.54 et seq. The authority to grant variances from uses of
land is restricted to and reserved by the City Council. An appeal shall only be
heard by the ZBA if a complete application for an appeal is filed within 30
days of the date of the order, requirement, decision, or determination from
which the appeal is sought. The effective date of the order, requirement,
decision, or determination from which the appeal is sought is, in the case of
the Zoning Administrator, the date it is issued and, in all other cases, the
date on which the minutes of the meeting at which such order, requirement,
decision, or determination from which the appeal is sought were approved.
   (B)   Application.  An application for an appeal may be taken by any
aggrieved person or by an officer, department, board, commission, or bureau of
the state or local government from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission, or the
City Council in the course of enforcing this chapter. In order for an
application for appeal to be considered as a complete application for appeal,
it shall conform to all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The application for an appeal shall be filed with the Secretary of
the ZBA and the officer from whom the appeal is taken, the Zoning Administrator
or the Chairperson of the Planning Commission or the Clerk of the City Council;
      (2)   The application shall be deemed to be filed on the date that the
complete application is received by the Secretary of the ZBA;
      (3)   The application shall be made on forms provided by the Zoning
Administrator. The applicant shall submit with the application for appeal filed
with the Secretary of the ZBA a fee as established from time to time by the
City Council. The application shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The property address, tax number, and zoning district
classification for the property in question;
         (c)   A site plan showing the property boundary lines and dimensions,
and the location and dimensions of existing and proposed structures. The ZBA
may, in its discretion, require that the applicant, at his or her expense,
submit a detailed site plan prepared by a licensed surveyor or professional
engineer when it determines that such a site plan is necessary in order for the
ZBA to make an informed decision; and
         (d)   A written narrative that describes the decision or action from
which the appeal is sought, the particular relief that is sought, and the
potential impact of the relief sought on adjacent and nearby properties, and
that specifically addresses each standard set forth in division (E) below.
      (4)   Within 14 days of the date the complete application for appeal is
filed, the officer from whom the appeal is taken shall deliver to the Secretary
of the ZBA copies of all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision was made.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings.  A complete application for appeal that is timely
filed shall have the effect of staying all proceedings in furtherance of the
action being appealed, unless the officer or entity from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the ZBA that, by reason of facts stated in such
certification, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent peril to life
or property. If such certification is made, proceedings shall not be stayed
except by a restraining order issued by the ZBA, or by a court of competent
jurisdiction. The provisions of this division (C) shall not nullify a stop-work
order validly issued by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission.
   (D)   Notice of public hearing.  Upon receipt of an application for an
appeal, a notice stating the time, date, and place of the public hearing shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the township and
shall be sent to the person requesting the appeal not less than 15 days before
the public hearing. In addition, if the application for appeal involves a
specific parcel, written notice stating the nature of the interpretation
request and the time, date, and place of the public hearing shall be sent by
first-class mail or personal delivery to all persons to whom real property is
assessed within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question and to the
occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in
question. If a tenant’s or other occupant’s name is not known, the term
“occupant” may be used.
   (E)   ZBA review.  Once the Secretary of the ZBA is in receipt of the
complete application and the complete record on which the decision was made,
the Secretary shall schedule a meeting of the ZBA and place the appeal case on
the agenda for that meeting. Such meeting shall be held no sooner than 15 days
after publication and service of the notice on the person requesting the
appeal, nor more than 60 days from the date that the application for appeal is
received by the Secretary.
      (1)   The Secretary shall notify all parties entitled to notice of the
date, time, and place of the meeting, at least 15 days prior to the meeting by
first-class mail or personal delivery as provided in the preceding division
(D).
      (2)   The appellant may be represented by a party who has a legal
financial interest in the property (such as a purchase agreement) provided that
the application for appeal contains an affidavit signed by the property owner
(s) identifying the presenting party and the nature of the legal interest. An
agent or attorney may also represent the appellant and other parties entitled
to notice.
      (3)   The Chairperson of the ZBA may administer oaths to each person who
speaks or who offers evidence or testimony at the public hearing. The
Chairperson may compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (F)   Standards for granting an appeal to the ZBA.  In reviewing the appeal,
the ZBA shall consider the following standards:
      (1)   Did the order, requirement, decision, or determination comply with
the Constitution and laws of the state and with the requirements of this
chapter?
      (2)   Is the order, requirement, decision, or determination based upon
proper procedure?
      (3)   Is the order, requirement, decision, or determination supported by
competent, material and substantial evidence on the record?
      (4)   Is the order, requirement, decision, or determination a reasonable
exercise of the authority granted by this chapter?
   (G)   Decision on the appeal to the ZBA.  The concurring vote of a majority
of the membership of the ZBA shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of an administrative official, board,
or commission made in the enforcement of this chapter. If the ZBA finds that
all four of the standards set forth in division (F) above are satisfied, then
it shall uphold the order, requirement, decision, or determination, and shall
deny the appeal. If the ZBA finds that one or more of the required standards
are not satisfied, it may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination. To that end, the ZBA shall
have all the powers of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken and
may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. If the ZBA finds there is
additional evidence available at its public hearing that was not available when
the original order, requirement, decision, or determination was made, it may
remand the issue back to the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken for
a rehearing. The ZBA may impose conditions on an affirmative decision in
accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Such conditions shall be designed to protect the natural resources,
the health, safety, and welfare, and the social and economic well-being of:
         (a)   Those who will patronize the land use or activity under
consideration;
         (b)   Residents, and the landowners immediately adjacent to the
proposed land use or activity; and
         (c)   The community as a whole.
      (2)   Such conditions shall be related to the valid exercise of city
authority and purposes that are affected by the proposed use or activity.
      (3)   Such conditions shall be necessary to meet the intent and purpose
of this chapter, be related to the standards established in this chapter for
the land use or activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure
compliance with those standards.
   (H)   Finality of ZBA decision.  The decision of the ZBA in an appeal case
shall be final. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the ZBA on such a case,
and with proper standing, may appeal the decision of the ZBA to the Circuit
Court for the county. Any appeal granted by the ZBA shall be valid for one year
from the date of approval. If the use or construction authorized by a granted
appeal does not commence within one year of the date of approval and, in the
case of construction, is not completed within two years of the date of
approval, the appeal shall become null and void and of no effect, with or
without written notification by the ZBA.
   (I)   Appeal of ZBA decision.  Any party aggrieved by a decision of the ZBA
may appeal to the County Circuit Court as provided in and subject to M.C.L.A. §
125.3606 and M.C.L.A. § 125.3607.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
§ 152.126  NONUSE VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally.  On appeal, the ZBA shall have the authority to grant
nonuse variances from the strict application of this chapter in cases where
strict enforcement would cause undue hardship as a result of special
circumstances that affect an individual property but which do not generally
affect other properties in the same zoning district. Such nonuse variances
shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Application. Application for a nonuse variance shall be made to the
Zoning Board of Appeals by filing of not less than five copies of an
application form with the Zoning Administrator. Fees are required to be paid in
accordance with the fee schedule in effect as established by the City Council
at the time the application is made. This information below shall be considered
a minimum and the Zoning Administrator, in consultation with the Chairperson of
the ZBA, may require additional information deemed necessary for the ZBA to
make a fully informed decision on the application. The application shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, and phone number;
      (2)   The address, parcel number, and current zoning district
classification of the property;
      (3)   The application shall be executed by the owner(s) of the property.
The applicant may be represented by a party other than the owner(s) who has a
legal financial interest in the property (such as a purchase agreement)
provided that the application contains an affidavit signed by the property
owner(s) indicating the party and the nature of the legal interest. An agent or
attorney may also represent the applicant;
      (4)   The application shall grant a right of entry onto the subject
property to the Zoning Administrator, members of the ZBA, and representatives
and designees of the city for the purpose of inspecting the property and
reviewing the application;
      (5)   The address of the applicant and any other person that represents
the applicant at the hearing to whom all correspondence regarding the
application and variance process should be sent;
      (6)   A narrative description of the requested variance that describes
the section(s) of this chapter from which the applicant is seeking a variance
as relief; the nature and extent of the requested nonuse variance; and the
potential impact of the requested nonuse variance on adjacent and nearby
properties; and that specifically addresses the standards for granting a nonuse
variance that are set forth in division (E) below;
      (7)   A plot plan showing:
         (a)   Property lines with dimensions;
         (b)   Location of existing and proposed structures with dimensions;
         (c)   Open yards as required by the applicable zoning district
regulations; and
         (d)   Proposed walls, fences and landscaping.
      (8)   The ZBA may, in its discretion, require that the applicant, at
applicant’s expense, submit a detailed plot plan prepared by a licensed
surveyor or professional engineer when it determines that such a plot plan is
necessary in order for the ZBA to make an informed decision.
   (C)   Submission of the application.  The application shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator, who shall review the application within 15 days of
its receipt. In reviewing the application for completeness, the Zoning
Administrator may consult with the Chairperson of the ZBA, the City Engineer,
the City Planner, and any other parties whose input the Zoning Administrator
deems necessary for the proper review of the application. If the Zoning
Administrator finds that the application is not complete, he or she shall
return the application with a written explanation of the additional information
that is required. Once the application is found to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall forward the application to the Secretary of the ZBA who
shall schedule a meeting of the ZBA and schedule the application for a public
hearing at that meeting. Such meeting shall be held no sooner than 15 days and
no more than 60 days from the date that notice of the meeting is provided
pursuant to the next following division (D).
   (D)   Notice of public hearing.  Upon receipt of an application for a nonuse
variance, a notice stating the time, date, and place of the public hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city and
shall be sent to the person requesting the nonuse variance not less than 15
days before the public hearing. In addition, if the application for a nonuse
variance involves a specific parcel, written notice stating the nature of the
nonuse variance request and the time, date, and place of the public hearing
shall be sent by first-class mail or personal delivery to all persons to whom
real property is assessed within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in
question and to the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the boundary
of the property in question. If a tenant’s or other occupant’s name is not
known, the term “occupant” may be used. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the nature of the nonuse variance request under
the specific section of this chapter;
      (2)   A legal description or address, and/or an approximate sketch of the
property which is the subject of the request;
      (3)   A statement of when and where the public hearing will be held to
consider the request; and
      (4)   A statement as to when and where comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (E)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Any party other than the owner(s) that has a legal financial
interest in the property (such as a purchase agreement or land contract) may
apply for and present a nonuse variance request, provided that the application
contains an affidavit signed by the legal property owner(s) of record attesting
to the financial interest of the applying party and the nature of the legal
interest that is held. The applicant, as well as other financially interested
parties, including the owner(s), who request or oppose a nonuse variance may be
represented by an agent or attorney.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the ZBA may administer oaths to each person who
speaks, or who offers evidence or testimony at the public hearing. The
Chairperson may compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (3)   The applicant and interested members of the public shall have the
opportunity to address the ZBA and present evidence in regard to the
application, in accordance with rules and procedures adopted by the ZBA from
time to time. The ZBA may also take into consideration the testimony provided
by the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission, and parties with relevant
knowledge or expertise.
   (F)   Standards for granting a variance.  In reviewing the request for a
nonuse variance, the ZBA shall consider the application in regard to the
criteria set forth below and in regard to any additional criteria imposed by
case law or statutory law and shall make written findings of fact. No variance
shall be granted by the ZBA unless its written findings of fact and the record
show that each of the following standards is met.
      (1)   There is a real and demonstrable hardship as evidenced by one of
the following:
         (a)   Strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter will
have the effect of unreasonably preventing the property owner from using the
property for a purpose permitted by this chapter because of:
            1.   The exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a
specific piece of property;
            2.   The exceptional topographic conditions;
            3.   Other extraordinary situation of the land or building; or
            4.   The use of property immediately adjoining the subject
property.
         (b)   Strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter would be
unnecessarily burdensome.
      (2)   The granting of the nonuse variance is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed by other
property owners in the same vicinity and district, but which is denied to the
property in question.
      (3)   The hardship arises from a unique, identified characteristic of the
property and is not shared generally by other properties in the area and is not
related to general conditions in the area of the property.
      (4)   The hardship arises from the physical characteristics of the
property and is not a personal hardship.
      (5)   The hardship was not created, imposed, caused, or exacerbated by
the applicant, and existed as of the effective date of this chapter or
pertinent amendment thereto.
      (6)   The nonuse variance is directly related to the identified hardship
and is the minimum necessary to afford relief from the hardship.
      (7)   The nonuse variance would result in substantial justice being done
for the applicant and for other property owners in the district.
      (8)   The nonuse variance will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, and welfare, and will not be contrary to the intent and purposes of
this chapter.
      (9)   The nonuse variance will not significantly alter the character of
the surrounding area.
   (G)   Approval or denial of nonuse variance.  If the ZBA finds that all nine
of the standards set forth in division (F) above are satisfied, then it shall
approve the nonuse variance. If the ZBA finds that one or more of the required
standards are not met, it shall deny the nonuse variance. The ZBA may approve a
lesser nonuse variance if, in its opinion, the lesser nonuse variance will
result in substantial justice being done, and if the lesser nonuse variance is
in compliance with the nine standards set forth in division (F) above. The ZBA
may impose conditions on an affirmative decision in accordance with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Such conditions shall be designed to protect natural resources, the
health, safety, and welfare, and the social and economic well-being of:
         (a)   Those who will use the land use or activity under consideration;
         (b)   Residents and landowners immediately adjacent to the proposed
land use or activity; and
         (c)   The community as a whole.
      (2)   Such conditions shall be related to the valid exercise of the
city’s authority and purposes that are affected by the proposed nonuse
variance.
      (3)   Such conditions shall be necessary to meet the intent and purpose
of this chapter, be related to the standards established in this chapter for
the land use or activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure
compliance with those standards.
   (H)   Finality of decision.  The decision of the ZBA shall be final. Any
party aggrieved by the decision of the ZBA on such a case and with proper
standing, may appeal the decision of the ZBA to the Circuit Court for the
county. Any nonuse variance granted by the ZBA shall be valid for one year from
the date of approval. If the use or construction authorized by a nonuse
variance does not commence within one year of the date, of approval and, in the
case of construction, is not completed within two years of the date of
approval, the appeal shall become null and void and of no effect, with or
without written notification by the ZBA.
   (I)   Reapplication.  An application for a nonuse variance that is
determined to be substantially the same as a nonuse variance that has been
denied by the ZBA shall not be filed and shall not be accepted by the ZBA
within 12 months of the date of denial.
   (J)   Appeal of the ZBA decision.  Any party aggrieved by a decision of the
ZBA may appeal to the County Circuit Court as provided in and subject to
M.C.L.A. § 125.3606 and M.C.L.A. § 125.3607.
(Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
REPORT TO GOVERNING BODY
§ 152.140  REPORT TO GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   Following the enactment of this code, the City Planning Commission
shall from time to time prepare and file with the City Council a report on the
operations of this chapter, including recommendations as to amendments,
supplements, or changes thereto.
   (B)   The effective date of this amendatory ordinance shall be upon
publication as required by law. Passed in open Council meeting this ___________
day of ________________, 2007.
Mayor
______________________________________________________________________________
Clerk
______________________________________________________________________________
Date of first reading
__________________________________________________________________
Date of second reading:
________________________________________________________________
Date passed:
__________________________________________________________________________
Date published:
_______________________________________________________________________
Effective date:
_______________________________________________________________________
(Ord., § 802, passed 6-11-2002)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Nuisance per se.  Except as otherwise provided by law, a use of land
or a dwelling, building, or structure, including a tent or recreational
vehicle, used, erected, altered, razed, or converted in violation of this
chapter is declared to be a nuisance per se, and the same shall be ordered
abated by the court upon a determination of responsibility for the municipal
infraction.
   (B)   Penalties and enforcement.  Any person, firm, or corporation that uses
land or uses, erects, alters, razes, or converts a dwelling, building, or
structure, including a tent or recreational vehicle, in violation of this
chapter, shall, pursuant to Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101
through 125.3702, be deemed responsible for a municipal civil infraction. Upon
the defendant being determined to be responsible or responsible “with
explanation” for a municipal civil fraction, he or she shall pay a civil fine
as determined by the court together with costs of the action which may include
all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the city has put in connection with
the municipal civil infraction, up to the entry of judgment. Costs of not more
than $500 shall be ordered.
   (C)   Separate offense.  Each day that a violation of this chapter is
continued and permitted to exist shall constitute a separate violation
punishable upon an admission or determination of responsibility in the same
manner as prescribed herein for the original offense.
(Ord., § 504, passed 6-11-2002; Ord. passed 4-12-2011)
APPENDIX A:  ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6e62608351d7856a20ec59bcbda1548a43b91f2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18.jpg]
Note: To view a printer-friendly version of the map in PDF, please click HERE.
(Ord., passed 6-11-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
82       10-12-1999  Granting a gas franchise for a natural gas distribution
                     system to Michigan Gas Utilities, for a period of 30 years
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Statutes
References to 1990 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED STATUTES
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section  Code Section
15.231—15.246   113.04;
                  113.17
15.261—15.275   152.122
117.1 et seq.     Charter, Preamble,
                  2.1
117.5b            10.01
125.2301—125.235152.009;
                  152.071
125.3101 et seq.  152.009;
                  152.120
                  152.093;
125.3101—125.370152.122;
                  152.999
125.3606          152.124;
                  152.126
125.3607          152.124;
                  152.126
125.3801 et seq.  152.009
141.101—141.138 53.01;
                  53.09
                  31.04;
211.741 et seq.   31.09;
                  31.10
247.651—247.675 113.13
257.1 et seq.     70.001
257.1—257.923   72.01;
                  92.15
257.625           70.001
257.951 et seq.   70.020
333.1101 et seq.  110.11
436.1101—436.230111.04
445.371—445.378 112.02
484.2102          113.03
484.2251          113.04
484.3101—484.312113.01
559.101—559.272 151.01;
                  152.009
560.101—560.293 151.01;
                  152.009
600.8101 et seq.  73.50
600.8701 et seq.  76.99
722.111—722.128 152.009
750               130.02
 
REFERENCES TO 1990 CODE
1990 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1990 Code Section   2013 Code Section
Part 1              10.99
Part 2              91.070
2.001               91.065
2.002               91.066
2.003               91.067
2.004               91.068
2.005               91.069
Part 3              30.04
3.001               30.01
3.002               30.02
3.003               30.03
10.001              110.01
10.002              110.02
10.003              110.03
10.004              110.04
10.005              110.05
10.006              110.06
10.007              110.07
10.008              110.08
10.009              110.09
10.010              110.10
10.011              110.11
10.012              110.12
10.013              110.13
10.014              110.14
10.015              110.99
10.016              110.15
10.017              110.16
10.018              110.17
10.019              110.18
11.001              110.30
11.002              110.31
11.003              110.32
11.004              110.33
11.005              110.34
Part 12             112.05
12.001              112.01
12.002              112.02
12.003              112.03
12.004              112.04
Part 13             110.46
13.000              110.45
Part 25             114.24
25.001              114.01
25.002              114.02
25.003              114.03
25.004              114.04
25.005              114.05
25.006              114.06
25.007              114.07
25.008              114.08
25.009              114.09
25.010              114.10
25.011              114.11
25.012              114.12
25.013              114.13
25.014              114.14
25.015              114.15
25.016              114.16
25.017              114.17
25.018              114.18
25.019              114.19
25.020              114.20
25.021              114.21
25.022              114.22
25.023              114.99
25.024              114.23
26.001              114.35
26.002              114.36
26.003              114.37
26.004              114.38
26.005              114.39
26.006              114.40
26.007              114.41
26.008              114.42
26.009              114.43
26.010              114.44
26.011              114.45
26.012              114.46
26.013              114.47
26.014              114.48
26.015              114.49
26.016              114.50
26.017              114.51
26.018              114.52
26.019              114.53
34.001              71.01
34.002              71.02
34.003              71.03
34.004              71.04
34.005              71.99
34.006              71.05
Part 35             72.99
35.001              72.01
35.002              72.02
35.003              72.03
35.004              72.04
                    71.20;
36.001              71.99;
                    Ch. 74 Sched. I
37.001              73.50
37.002              73.51
37.003              73.52
37.004              73.53
37.005              73.54
37.006              73.55
37.007              73.56
37.008              73.57
37.020 (Appendix A) Ch. 73, App. A
37.030 (Appendix B) Ch. 73, App. B
38.001              73.01
38.002              73.02
38.003              73.03
38.005              73.04
39.001              73.20;
                    Ch. 75 Sched. I
39.002              73.99
39.003              73.21
40.001              73.35;
                    Ch. 75 Sched. II
40.002              73.36
40.003              73.99
Part 50             130.03
50.001              130.01
50.002              130.02
Part 51             131.09
51.001              131.01
51.002              131.02
51.003              131.03
51.004              131.04
51.005              131.05
51.006              131.06
51.007              131.99
51.008              131.07
51.009              131.08
Part 52             132.08
52.001              132.01
52.002              132.02
52.003              132.03
52.004              132.04
52.005              132.05
52.007              132.07
52.008              132.99
60A.001             90.01
60A.002             90.02
60A.003             90.03
60A.004             90.04
Part 60B            90.24
60B.001             90.15
60B.002             90.16
60B.003             90.17
60B.004             90.18
60B.005             90.19
60B.006             90.20
60B.007             90.21
60B.008             90.22
60B.009             90.23
Part 61             90.43
61A.000             90.35
61B.000             90.36
61C.000             90.37
61D.000             90.38
61E.000             90.39
61F.000             90.40
61G.000             90.41
61H.000             90.42
61I.000             90.99
Part 62             90.57
62.001              90.55
62.002              90.56
Part 70             91.007
70.954              91.001
70.955              91.002
70.956              91.003
70.957              91.004
70.958              91.005
70.959              91.006
Part 71             91.023
71.001              91.020
71.002              91.021
71.003              91.999
71.004              91.022
Part 72             91.036
72.001              91.035
Part 80             50.07
80.001              50.01
80.002              50.02
80.003              50.03
80.004              50.04
80.005              50.05
80.006              50.06
81.001              50.20
81.002              50.21
81.003              50.22
Part 82             50.35—
                    50.38
83.001              52.01
83.002              52.02
83.003              52.99
83.004              52.03
84.001              52.15
84.002              52.16
84.003              52.17
84.004              52.18
84.005              52.19
84.006              52.20
84.007              52.99
84.008              52.21
Part 86             51.05
86.001              51.01
86.002              51.02
86.003              51.03
86.004              51.04
Part 87             92.02
87.001              92.01
88.001              92.15
88.002              92.16
                    93.01;
Part 89             93.02;
                    93.10
89.001              93.03
89.002              93.04
89.003              93.05
89.004              93.06
89.005              93.07
89.006              93.08
89.007              93.09
90.001              92.30
90.002              92.31
90.003              92.32
90.004              92.33
90.005              92.34
90.006              92.35
90.007              92.36
Part 100            94.01
100.001             94.01
100.002             94.02
100.003             94.03
100.004             94.04
Part 101            94.38
101.001             94.35
101.002             94.36
101.003             94.37
Part 102            95.02
102.001             95.01
Part 103            91.090
103.001             91.085
103.002             91.086
103.003             91.087
103.004             91.088
103.005             91.089
104.001             95.15
104.002             95.16
104.003             95.16
104.004             95.16
104.005             95.17
104.006             95.18
104.007             95.19
104.008             95.20
104.009             95.21
Part 110            150.03
110.001             150.01
110.002             150.02
Part 111            150.19
111.001             150.15
111.002             150.16
111.003             150.17;
                    150.99
111.004             150.18
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed  Description
                        73.20;
7a         1-4-1950     73.21;
                        73.99
17a        1-4-1950     Ch. 75 Sched. I
                        73.35;
17b        8-6-1962     73.36;
                        73.99;
                        Ch. 75 Sched. II
                        71.20;
17h        10-11-1965   71.99;
                        Ch. 74 Sched. I
                        73.50—
22         11-4-1969    73.57;
                        Ch. 73 App. A;
                        Ch. 73 App. B
                        150.01—
2          4-2-1973     150.03;
                        150.99
5          4-2-1973     130.01—
                        130.03
                        90.01—
6a         4-2-1973     90.04;
                        90.15—
                        90.24
6b         4-2-1973     90.55—
                        90.57
7a         4-2-1973     94.01—
                        94.04
7b         4-2-1973     94.35—
                        94.38
7c         4-2-1973     95.01;
                        95.02
10a        4-2-1973     91.085—
                        91.090
10b        4-2-1973     91.001—
                        91.007
10c        4-2-1973     91.065—
                        91.070
11         4-2-1973     112.01—
                        112.05
15a        4-2-1973     92.15;
                        92.16
15b        4-2-1973     92.01;
                        92.02
24         4-2-1973     91.035;
                        91.036
25         4-2-1973     150.15—
                        150.19
                        73.01—
26         12-3-1973    73.04;
                        73.99
                        72.01—
27A        12-3-1973    72.04;
                        72.99
                        52.15—
28         3-3-1975     52.21;
                        52.99
31         6-6-1977     110.30—
                        110.34
                        132.01—
                        132.05;
34         8-11-1978    132.07;
                        132.08;
                        132.99
36         9-27-1978    50.35—
                        50.38
40         12-11-1979   50.35;
                        50.36
43         1-13-1981    30.01—
                        30.04
47         6-9-1981     73.99
48         6-9-1981     73.99
49         10-20-1981   110.45
56         2-14-1984    50.01—
                        50.07
                        114.01—
60         8-14-1984    114.24;
                        114.99
61         5-7-1985     50.35;
                        50.36
                        114.09;
60A        5-26-1985    114.11;
                        114.15
62         4-8-1986     114.19
63         12-9-1986    50.35;
                        50.36
64         3-10-1987    51.01—
                        51.05
                        131.01—
65         6-9-1987     131.09;
                        131.99
                        52.01—
66         6-9-1987     52.03;
                        52.99
67a        9-8-1987     131.03
67b        9-8-1987     131.03
                        91.020—
68         7-12-1988    91.023;
                        91.999
69         11-9-1988    93.01—
                        93.10
                        90.35—
70         11-9-1988    90.43;
                        90.99
71         4-18-1989    91.001
                        71.01—
72         5-9-1990     71.05;
                        71.99
                        110.01—
73         7-10-1990    110.18;
                        110.99
-          10-6-1993    114.35—
                        114.53
15c        9-21-1995    92.30—
                        92.36
77         3-12-1996    50.20—
                        50.22
80         1-14-1997    95.15—
                        95.21
81         7-13-1999    94.15—
                        94.22
82         10-12-1999   TSO I
83         2-8-2000     51.01
-          eff. - -2001 Charter
                        113.01—
87         - -2002      113.20;
                        113.99
-, § 101  6-11-2002    152.001
-, § 102  6-11-2002    152.002
-, § 103  6-11-2002    152.003
-, § 104  6-11-2002    152.004
-, § 105  6-11-2002    152.005
-, § 106  6-11-2002    152.006
-, § 107  6-11-2002    152.007
-, § 202  6-11-2002    152.009
-, § 301  6-11-2002    152.020
-, § 302  6-11-2002    152.021
-, § 303  6-11-2002    152.022
-, § 304  6-11-2002    152.023
-, § 305  6-11-2002    152.024
-, § 306  6-11-2002    152.040
-, § 306.16-11-2002    152.041—
                        152.048
-, § 307  6-11-2002    152.025
-, § 307.16-11-2002    152.025
-, § 308  6-11-2002    152.026
-, § 401  6-11-2002    152.060
-, § 402  6-11-2002    152.061
-, § 403  6-11-2002    152.062
-, § 404  6-11-2002    152.063
-, § 405  6-11-2002    152.064
-, § 406  6-11-2002    152.065
-, § 407  6-11-2002    152.066
-, § 408  6-11-2002    152.067
-, § 409  6-11-2002    152.068
-, § 410  6-11-2002    152.069
-, § 411  6-11-2002    152.070
-, § 412  6-11-2002    152.071
-, § 413  6-11-2002    152.072
-, § 414  6-11-2002    152.073
-, § 415  6-11-2002    152.074
-, § 416  6-11-2002    152.075
-, § 417  6-11-2002    152.076
-, § 418  6-11-2002    152.077
-, § 419  6-11-2002    152.078
-, § 501  6-11-2002    152.090
-, § 502  6-11-2002    152.091
-, § 503  6-11-2002    152.092
-, § 504  6-11-2002    152.999
-, § 505  6-11-2002    152.093
-, § 601  6-11-2002    152.105
-, § 602  6-11-2002    152.106
-, § 701  6-11-2002    152.120
-, § 802  6-11-2002    152.140
-          6-11-2002    Ch. 152 App. A
-          10-8-2002    151.01—
                        151.12
-          10-14-2003   92.15—
                        92.17
                        111.01—
89         10-14-2003   111.05;
                        111.99
                        53.01—
93         - -          53.12;
                        53.99
94         10-11-2005   91.050—
                        91.053
                        152.008;
                        152.009;
                        152.090;
                        152.093;
-          4-12-2011    152.105;
                        152.106;
                        152.121—
                        152.126;
                        152.999
2013-01    9-10-2013    31.01—
                        31.28
                        76.01—
2014-01    11-11-2014   76.04;
                        76.99
 
