VILLAGE OF ROTHBURY, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through:
Ordinance passed 9-17-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Rothbury Code.”
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including,
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961,Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE. The Rothbury Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code, or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that, if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall
be excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Rothbury.
      COUNTY. County of Oceana, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of Rothbury,
Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the village
is assigned any duty, or empowered to perform any act or duty, reference to the
OFFICER shall mean, and include, the officer or his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of Rothbury and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof; and as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor
as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be
so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
   (B)   No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of
deficiency in any catchline, or in any heading or title to any chapter,
article, or division.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with, or inconsistent with, this code, including:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones; specific
speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield intersections, or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   (1)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
      (2)   The ordinances are on file in the Village Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully, and to the same
extent, as if the adoption had not been effected.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance, or part of any ordinance, heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Rothbury Code, is
hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall then be set out
in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Rothbury Code is hereby amended
by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which the section reads as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code
shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village
Council.
      (2)   A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code.
      (3)   The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances, and parts of ordinances, included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable, and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which a penalty is
not otherwise specified, either in that provision or elsewhere in the code,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof in any court of
competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500, or to
imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more than 90 days, or to
both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Provisions of this code prescribing any penalty shall not apply to the
failure of any village officer or employee to perform an official duty.
   (C)   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A police officer or other personnel of
the village authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil
infraction citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL shall include the following, in addition to police
officers:
            1.   Village inspectors and all persons carrying on the inspection
function under construction codes enforced in the village from time to time as
well as any other codes or ordinances concerning the condition of property such
as, but not limited to, the Property Maintenance Code and the Dangerous
Building Code;
            2.   All personnel designated as zoning and planning enforcement
personnel, including, but not limited to, the Zoning Administrator;
            3.   All police officers of the village; and
            4.   The Village President and the Village Clerk.
         BUREAU. The Village Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, as
established by this code of ordinances.
         MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice
prepared by an authorized village official, directing a person to appear in
court regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction
violation by the person cited.
         MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared
by an authorized village official, directing a person to appear at the Village
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any,
prescribed for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the
village, as authorized under the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Public Act 236
of 1961, §§ 8396 and 8707(6), being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8396 and 600.8707(6).
      (2)   Issuance or service of citations. The issuance by authorized
village officials, service by authorized village officials and contesting of
municipal civil infraction citations shall comply with law.
      (3)   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
         (a)   The village hereby establishes a Municipal Ordinance Violations
Bureau (“Bureau”) as authorized under the Revised Judicature Act of 1961,
Public Act 236 of 1961, § 8396, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, to accept admissions
of responsibility of municipal civil infractions in response to municipal civil
infraction violation notices issued and served by authorized village officials,
and to collect and retain civil fines and costs as prescribed by this code or
any ordinance.
         (b)   The Bureau shall be located at the Village Hall, and shall be
under the supervision and control of the Village Clerk. The Village Treasurer,
subject to the approval of the Village President, shall adopt rules and
regulations for the operation of the Bureau and appoint all necessary qualified
village employees to administer the Bureau.
         (c)   The Bureau may dispose only of municipal civil infraction
violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a municipal civil
infraction violation notice (as compared with a citation) has been issued. The
fact that a fine has been scheduled for a particular violation shall not
entitle any person to dispose of the violation at the Bureau. Nothing in this
section shall prevent or restrict the village from issuing a municipal civil
infraction citation for any violation, or from prosecuting any violation in a
court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall be required to dispose of a
municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau and may have the violation
processed before a court of appropriate jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any
person to dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person
or in any way diminish the person’s rights, privileges, and protection accorded
by law.
         (d)   The scope of the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to
accepting admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions and
collecting and retaining civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions.
The Bureau shall not accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having
committed the offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and
in no event shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or
falsity of any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
         (e)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices shall be issued and
served by authorized village officials under the same circumstances and upon
the same persons as provided for citations as provided in this section. In
addition to any other information required by this code or other ordinance, the
notice of violation shall indicate the time by which the alleged violator must
appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an appearance may be made, the
address and telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau
is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged violation and the
consequences for failure to appear and pay the required fine within the
required time.
         (f)   An alleged violator receiving a municipal civil infraction
violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and pay the specified fine and
costs at, or by, the time specified for appearance in the municipal civil
infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by mail, in person, or
by representation.
         (g)   If an authorized village official issues and serves a municipal
ordinance violation notice, and if an admission of responsibility is not made
and the civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for
the violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation
may be filed with the district court and a copy of the citation may be served
by first class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator’s last
known address. The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all
particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by the Revised
Judicature Act of 1961, Public Act 236 of 1961, §§ 8705 and 8709, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and 600.8709, but shall consist of a sworn complaint
containing the allegations stated in the municipal ordinance violation notice
and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to respond to the citation.
      (4)   Schedule of civil fines established. A schedule of civil fines
payable to the Bureau for admissions of responsibility by persons served with
municipal ordinance violation notices is established by this section. The
schedule shall be as follows, and a copy of the schedule, as amended from time
to time by ordinance, shall be posted at the Bureau.
 
Subject              First Offense First Repeat Offense Second Repeat Offense
Property Maintenance $100          $250                 $500
Code
Zoning Ordinance     $100          $250                 $500
 
         (a)   FIRST REPEAT is a repeat of the offense by the same person or
persons in concert within 24 months of the first offense.
         (b)   SECOND REPEAT is a repeat of the offense by the same person or
persons in concert within 24 months of the first repeat offense.
   (D)   A violation includes any act which is prohibited, or made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense by this code or any ordinance, and any omission or
failure to act where the act is required by this code or any ordinance.
   (E)   Each act of violation and each day on which any violation of this code
or any ordinance continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject
to penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
   (F)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the village may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain,
prevent, or abate any violation of this code or any village ordinance. The
penalty or sanction shall be in addition to the abatement of the violating
condition, any injunctive relief, revocation of any permit or license, or other
process.
   (G)   The penalties and sanctions provided by this section, unless another
penalty or sanction has expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any
section of this code and/or any addition to this code, whether or not the
penalty or sanction is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 10.99C, passed 9-15-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Contesting civil infractions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8715 et seq.
   Issuance and service citations, see M.C.L.A. § 600.8707
   Municipal civil infractions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq.
   Ordinance violation notice, see M.C.L.A. § 600.8707(6)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   PLANNING COMMISSION
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Presiding officer
   
30.04   Quorum
   
30.05   Special committees
   
30.06   Records
   
30.07   Order of business
   
30.08   Addressing meetings
   
30.09   Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.10   Suspension of rules
   
30.11   Attendance of members
   
30.12   Compelling attendance
Cross-reference:
Village elections, see
Ch. 31
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Village Council shall be held on the third
Tuesday of each month at the hour of 7:30 p.m.; provided, if the regular
meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next
secular day at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as
the Village Council may determine.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Village Council may be called by the Village
President or three Village Council members; provided that notice of the meeting
shall be given, as provided by statute, at least 18 hours before the time set
for the meeting; provided, further, that in cases where all of the elected
members of the Village Council are present at any special meeting, then the
requirement of notice shall be unnecessary and shall be deemed waived.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Village President shall be the presiding officer of the Village Council
at all regular or special meetings and when the Village Council meets as a
committee of the whole.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Village Council shall constitute a quorum
thereof. A lesser number may adjourn and compel the attendance of absent
members as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.05 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Village President shall appoint such special committees as he or she may
deem necessary, or as may be directed by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
§ 30.06 RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Village
Council’s proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
§ 30.07 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at meetings of the Village Council shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Minutes;
   (C)   Reports of officers and committees;
   (D)   Communications; and
   (E)   Other business.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
§ 30.08 ADDRESSING MEETINGS.
   No person other than the Village President, or a member of the Village
Council, or other officer or employee, shall address that body at any regular
or special meeting of the Village Council, except upon consent of a majority of
the members present.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
§ 30.09 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Except when in conflict with the foregoing provisions, Robert’s Rules of
Order shall govern the deliberations of the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.09)
§ 30.10 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)
§ 30.11 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   Village Council members shall make a good faith attempt to attend all
meetings of the Village Council. The Village Council shall declare the office
of any Village Council member vacant when that member absents himself or
herself from three meetings during the fiscal year without permission of the
Village Council. The Village Council shall fill the vacated seat as provided by
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
§ 30.12 COMPELLING ATTENDANCE.
   The Village Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may compel
the attendance of an absent member by instructing the Village Marshal to summon
the absent member to appear at the Village Council meeting. Failure of the
absent member to appear after being so summoned shall (unless excused by a
majority vote of the Village Council members) be deemed non-feasance of office
and shall authorize the Village Council to seek a writ of mandamus from the
appropriate court to compel the Village Council member’s attendance. Failure of
the Village Council member to abide by the writ of mandamus shall entitle the
Village Council, by a majority of its members, to declare the absent Village
Council member’s seat vacated and to fill the same as provided by state
statute.
(Prior Code, § 30.12)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Nonpartisan
   
31.02   Effective date
   
31.03   Application
   
31.04   Petition
   
31.05   Notice
   
31.06   Partisan elections
   
31.07   Terms
   
31.08   Conduct of election
§ 31.01 NONPARTISAN.
   Henceforth, all village elections shall be nonpartisan requiring no partisan
elections including primaries be held and/or conducted by the village pursuant
to M.C.L.A. § 63.3.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 45, passed 11-19-2002)
§ 31.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of §§
31.01 through
31.06 shall be 45 days after the date of adoption.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 45, passed 11-19-2002)
§ 31.03 APPLICATION.
   Sections
31.01 through
31.06 shall apply beginning with the first village election for which the
nomination deadline is not less than 30 days after the above-referenced
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 45, passed 11-19-2002)
§ 31.04 PETITION.
   As stated in §
31.02 above, the effective date of §§
31.01 through
31.06 shall be 45 days after the date of adoption, unless a petition of
registered electors within the village is filed with the Village Clerk
containing the signatures of not less than 10% of the registered electors
within the village within the 45-day period. If a petition bearing the required
number of valid signatures is filed, the question of the adoption of §§
31.01 through
31.06 shall be submitted at the next general or special election. The ballot
language for the question shall be prepared by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 45, passed 11-19-2002)
§ 31.05 NOTICE.
   Notice of the delayed effect of §§
31.01 through
31.06 and the right of petition under the proceeding §
31.04 shall be published separately at the same time, and in the same manner,
as the ordinance is published.
(Prior Code, § 31.05) (Ord. 45, passed 11-19-2002)
§ 31.06 PARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   The village may revert to partisan elections by the same two-thirds’
majority vote of members of the Village Council and publication requirements,
as set forth above, at any time.
(Prior Code, § 31.06) (Ord. 45, passed 11-19-2002)
§ 31.07 TERMS.
   (A)   At the next election, the term of the Village Clerk shall be for a
term of two years. Thereafter, the Village Clerk’s term shall be four years;
the Village President’s term and the Village Treasurer’s term at the next
election shall be for a period of four years, and for four years thereafter at
each election.
   (B)   This section shall take effect 45 days after approval.
(Prior Code, § 31.07) (Ord. 47, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 31.08 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   (A)   The village shall hold its regular election on the first Tuesday after
the second Monday of September in odd-numbered years.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall conduct the election.
   (C)   If the village regular or special elections are held in conjunction
with another election conducted by a township, the village shall pay the
township a proportionate share of the election expenses. If the village’s
regular or special elections are not held in conjunction with another election
conducted by a township, the village shall pay the township 100% of the actual
costs of conducting the village’s regular or special elections.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is directed to file this section with the Secretary
of State.
(Prior Code, § 31.08) (Res. passed 11-16-2004)
CHAPTER 32: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Reports and recommendations
Cross-reference:
Zoning jurisdiction and authority of Planning Commission, see §
154.408
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a planning commission for the village to be known as
the village’s Planning Commission, pursuant to, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Enabling Act, Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.31 through 125.45, as amended. The Planning Commission shall have all of
the duties and powers and shall perform all of the functions as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 31, passed 12-18-1979)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The legislative body (Village Council) of the municipality, has
determined that it is desirable for the Planning Commission to consist of five
members, the village having a population of less that 5,000; henceforth, the
Planning Commission shall consist of five members. Of the five members, one
shall be a member of the legislative body (Village Council), to serve as a
member ex officio, and the remainder of whom shall be appointed by the Village
President. An appointment by the Village President shall be subject to approval
of the legislative body by a majority vote.
   (B)   All appointed members of the Planning Commission may be compensated at
a rate to be determined by the appointing or legislative body. An appointed
member shall not hold another municipal office, except that one appointed
member may be a member of the Zoning Board of Adjustment or Appeals.
   (C)   The terms of the ex officio member shall be determined by the
legislative body and shall be stated in the resolution selecting the ex officio
member, but the term shall not exceed the member’s term of office as a member
of the legislative body.
      (1)   Except as provided elsewhere, the term of each appointed member
shall be three years, or until his or her or successor takes office, except
that the respective terms of two of the members first appointed shall be for
one year and two for two years.
      (2)   All ex officio members appointed under this section shall have full
voting rights. The appointed members shall represent, insofar as is possible,
different professions and occupations and shall all be residents of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 31, passed 12-18-1979; Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have such powers concerning the preparation
and adoption of a master plan, or any part thereof, and for the making of
surveys as a basis for the plan, for the approval of public improvements, for
the carrying out of educational and publicity programs, for the approval of
plats, and such other rights, powers, duties, and responsibilities as are
provided in of the Enabling Act, Public Act 285 of 1931, §§ 6 through 15, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45, and Public Act 222 of 1943,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.51 through 125.55, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 31, passed 12-18-1979)
§ 32.04 REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall make reports and recommendations to the
Village Council; provided that no such recommendations shall be binding upon
the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 31, passed 12-18-1979)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOWMOBILES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Uniform Vehicle Code
   
70.01   Code adopted
   
70.02   References in code
   
70.03   Notice to be published
   
70.04   Changes in code
State Vehicle Code
   
70.15   Code adopted
Cross-reference:
Clear vision corner and curve regulations, see §
154.045
Vehicle zoning regulations, see §
154.071
Vehicles as dwellings, see
Ch. 151, §
152.09
UNIFORM VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.01 CODE ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages promulgated by
the Department of State Police in accordance with Public Act 62 of 1956, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.951 through 257.955, as amended, for the regulation of traffic
within villages is hereby adopted by reference, including that portion of the
Traffic Code providing for civil infractions.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 30, passed 12-18-1979)
§ 70.02 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages
to “governmental unit” shall mean the village.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 30, passed 12-18-1979)
§ 70.03 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The Village Clerk shall publish this chapter in the manner required by law
and shall, at the same time, publish a supplementary notice setting forth the
purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code and the fact that complete copies of said
code are available at the office of the Village Clerk for inspection by, and
distribution to, the public at all times.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 30, passed 12-18-1979)
Editor’s note:
   The boundary lines of the village were altered by Res. passed 9-21-1976 to
enable the village and its Police Department to uniformly enforce traffic
regulations on both sides of the roadways. The premises affected are described
as follows: the south 33 feet of Section 16; the north 33 feet of Section 28;
the west 33 feet of Section 22; and the east 33 feet of Section 20, all in
Township 13 North, Range 17 West, Grant Township.
§ 70.04 CHANGES IN CODE.
   The following sections and divisions of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships, and Villages are hereby amended or deleted as set forth, and
additional sections and divisions are added as indicated. Subsequent section
numbers used in this chapter shall refer to the like numbered section of the
Uniform Traffic Code, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
   (A)   Current regulations. Section 6, “Current regulations,” is added to
read: All intersection stops and yield right-of-way requirements; regulations
on stopping, standing, or parking; one-way streets, roadways, and alleys;
crosswalks, restricted turns, through streets; play streets; angled parking
zones; all-night parking restrictions; curb loading zones; public carrier
stands; parking meter zones and spaces; weight restrictions; no-passing zones;
and speed limits and traffic control devices heretofore established and
effective on the effective date of this code shall be deemed established
hereunder, and shall remain effective until rescinded or modified as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
   (B)   Effective on school property. Section 7, “Ordinance effective on
school property,” is added to read: The provisions of this chapter relating to
the operation, parking without fees, and the speed of motor vehicles shall also
be effective upon the property of the public schools of the village.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
   (C)   Careless driving.
      (1)   Section 8, “Careless driving,” is amended to read: Any person who
drives any vehicle upon a highway or any other place open to the general
public, including any area designated for the parking of motor vehicles,
without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to
endanger, or be likely to endanger, any person or property, shall be guilty of
careless driving.
      (2)   Additionally, the following is added to read: Reckless Driving. Any
person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or any other place open to the
general public, including any area designated for the parking of motor
vehicles, carelessly and heedlessly, in willful or wanton disregard of the
rights or safety of others, shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)
(Ord. 11, passed 3-18-1968)
STATE VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.15 CODE ADOPTED.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1
through 257.923, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Name
   
71.02   Regulations
   
71.03   Enforcement
   
71.04   Other ordinances
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Driveway requirements, see §
154.46
Handicapped parking requirements, see §
154.267
Off-street parking and loading, see §§
154.265 through
154.271
§ 71.01 NAME.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Automobile Parking and Storage
Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 19, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 71.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall park or store on premises owned
or occupied by that person, firm, or corporation, except as may be zoned
therefor, any unlicensed motor-driven vehicle which requires a license under
the laws of the state for more than 14 days in any one year, unless the same is
located in an enclosed building, or unless a special permit is first obtained
therefor from the Village President, or such other officer as the Village
Council may designate, to be granted only in special hardship cases beyond the
control of the applicant, and where no adjoining property owner is injured
thereby.
   (B)   Not more than one licensed motor vehicle required to be licensed by
the laws of the state shall be regularly parked or stored upon any lot or
parcel of land forming a part of the yard, either developed or undeveloped, of
a private, two-family, or multiple-dwelling house, unless the same is in
working condition and can be propelled under its own power, and is being
regularly used by the occupants of the dwelling for the use for which the same
was manufactured, or unless a special permit is first obtained therefor from
the Village President, or such other officer as the Village Council may
designate, to be granted only in special hardship cases beyond the control of
the applicant and where no adjoining property owner is injured thereby.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 19, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions within this chapter shall be enforced by the Village
President or such other officer as the Village Council may designate.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) (Ord. 19, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 71.04 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall not be construed as repealing any ordinance now in effect
or hereafter made effective relating to rubbish, litter, garbage, refuse,
trash, junk, inoperable motor vehicles, or parked or stored automobiles, but
shall be construed as supplementary to any such ordinance, as well as any
statute of the state, relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 19, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $100, or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
more than 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the imposition of the foregoing fines and penalties,
the Village President, or such other officer as the Village Council may
designate, may cause any vehicle which violates the provisions of this chapter
to be removed from the premises, impounded, and destroyed, or sold for junk, as
the case may be, and the cost thereof assessed against the owner of the
vehicle. Any sums realized by the village on the sale of the vehicle may be
used to reimburse the village for the costs incurred therein. Any balance of
such sums remaining after the aforesaid reimbursement shall be returned to the
owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 19, passed 3-18-1968)
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Registration
   
72.03   Operation within village limits
   
72.04   Responsibility of parent or guardian
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and to control the operation of, a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates, or is in actual physical control of, a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. Any person, other than a lien-holder having property in, or title to,
a snowmobile, entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the state, or any of its
agencies or subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The portion of the highway less the roadway and any shoulder.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SHOULDER. The portion of a highway on either side of the roadway which is
normally snow plowed for the safety and convenience of vehicular traffic.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motorized vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow or
ice steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 26, passed 1-1-1973)
§ 72.02 REGISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided, no snowmobile shall be operated within the
village unless registered by the owner, as provided by Public Act 451 of 1994,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.82101 through 324.82160. No registration is required for
a snowmobile operated exclusively on lands owned, or under the control of, the
snowmobile owner.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) (Ord. 26, passed 1-1-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 OPERATION WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the village:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing;
   (B)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs,
barbital, or any derivative of barbital;
   (C)   In, or on, any property, park, or playground in the village, nor in
any nursery, planting area, or natural area of forest owned by the village,
except by permit and permission granted by the Village Council first obtained;
   (D)   On a highway, street, or public sidewalk in the village, except for
travel upon the right-of-way of a highway, street, or public sidewalk when
traveling single file, parallel to motor vehicle traffic upon the street, and
at a speed not greater than the minimum required to maintain forward movement
of the snowmobile;
   (E)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight,
or under any conditions where the absence of the lights would be unsafe;
   (F)   Unless equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke. Excessive
noise shall specifically include unnecessary racing or accelerating of the
engine; or
   (G)   On any private property within the village limits without the prior
consent or permission of the owner or occupant of the property, except that an
arrest under this section shall be subject to the occupant or owner filing a
sworn complaint prior to arrest.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 26, passed 1-1-1973; Ord. passed 8-14-2018)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize, or
knowingly permit, any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 26, passed 1-1-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
91.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND ALLEYS
      
92.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
96.   PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
90.01   Injury to fire equipment
   
90.02   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
90.03   Fire hydrant; openings
   
90.04   Fire inspection
   
90.05   Waste receptacles and storage
   
90.06   Fire exits
   
90.07   Open fires
   
90.08   Starting fires by smoking
   
90.09   Blasting
Cross-reference:
Fireworks, see §§
91.05 and
92.25
Outdoor waste burning, bonfires, and campfires, see §
91.05
§ 90.01 INJURY TO FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully molest, take for his or her own private use, or
damage, in any manner, any firefighting equipment or apparatus or anything
pertaining to the firefighting system, or drive any vehicle upon, or against,
any hose or equipment of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall place any obstruction whatsoever, nor shall any person
responsible for the obstruction permit it to remain, within 15 feet of any fire
hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 FIRE HYDRANT; OPENINGS.
   No person, except authorized village officers and employees, shall use any
fire hydrant, except in case of emergency, without first securing permission
from the Department of Public Works for the use and paying, or agreeing to pay,
for the water to be used. In no case shall any wrench or tool be used on any
fire hydrant other than a regulation village hydrant wrench.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 FIRE INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief is hereby empowered to enter at any, and all,
reasonable times upon, and into, any premises, building, or structure for the
purpose of examining and inspecting the same to ascertain the conditions
thereof with regard to fire hazards and the condition, size, arrangement, and
efficiency of any and all appliances for firefighting.
   (B)   If the inspection shall disclose any fire hazard or any deficiency in
firefighting appliances, the Fire Chief shall order the condition remedied.
   (C)   Every order made by the Fire Chief shall be promptly obeyed and
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 WASTE RECEPTACLES AND STORAGE.
   No person owning or being responsible for any premises shall permit any
wastepaper, ashes, oil, rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material of a
similar nature to accumulate thereon, unless contained in fireproof
receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 FIRE EXITS.
   The following rules relative to passageways, stairs, and fire exits shall be
applicable to all public buildings, places of assembly, commercial and business
buildings, hotels, apartment buildings, lodging houses, tourist homes, and all
other buildings except private dwellings, and except as otherwise expressly
limited herein to a particular type of building.
   (A)   No fire escape, stairway, balcony, or ladder on any building shall be
obstructed, out of repair, or maintained in a hazardous condition. Doors and
windows leading to any fire escape shall open easily from the inside.
   (B)   No combustible material shall be stored, placed, or kept under, or
upon, any passageway, stairs, or elevator shaft, nor shall any such material be
stored, placed, or kept in any other part of any building in such a position as
to obstruct or render hazardous egress therefrom.
   (C)   All doors, hallways, and stairways shall be unobstructed at all times.
   (D)   In all theaters, churches, schools, and other places of public
assembly, no door, aisle, or passageway shall be obstructed with any furniture
or article; nor shall any person sit or stand, or be permitted to sit or stand,
in any aisle, or in any exit or passageway; and all exits and the sidewalks
leading therefrom shall be unobstructed while such places of public assembly
are in use.
   (E)   No person shall do any act which causes any violation of any of the
rules set forth in this section, nor shall any person owning any building or in
charge thereof, as agent, employee, or otherwise permit any of the rules to be
violated.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 OPEN FIRES.
   No person shall kindle a fire in or upon any street or alley, nor within 25
feet of any building, unless the fire be confined in a safe container, and in
no case within 15 feet of any building. Every person who shall kindle any fire
shall have some competent person constantly in charge of the fire until it is
completely extinguished.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 STARTING FIRES BY SMOKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in smoking, or in attempting to light or
to smoke, a cigarette, cigar, or pipe to set fire to any bed, bedding,
furniture, curtains, or draperies in any hotel, motel, lodging house, or
tourist home in the village.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 BLASTING.
   (A)   No person shall blast, or carry on any blasting operation, without
first having obtained a written permit from the Village Clerk. Before any such
permit is issued, the applicant therefor shall file with the Village Clerk a
policy of insurance in the amount specified by the Village Clerk, in an amount
reasonably commensurate with the risk of damage to property and injury or death
to such persons arising out of the proposed blasting operation. The policy of
insurance shall indemnify the applicant with respect to sums which the
applicant shall become obligated to pay, by reason of the liability imposed
upon him or her by law, for damages because of bodily injury, including death,
at any time resulting therefrom, or for damages to property, or both, sustained
by any person, or persons, and arising out of the blasting operation.
   (B)   All blasting shall be conducted in a safe manner and consistent with
proper practice to reasonably ensure that no damage to person or property shall
result therefrom. These safe practices shall include, but not by way of
limitation, the posting of notice and warning signs, at least 125 feet from the
point of blast, to reasonably inform all passers-by of pending blasting
activity. No blasting shall be conducted within 125 feet from any building.
   (C)   A blasting permit shall be valid for only such period of time as is
specifically stated thereon by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) (Ord. 14, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND ALLEYS
Section
   
91.01   Transportation of rubbish
   
91.02   Rubbish collectors
   
91.03   Refuse littering and accumulation
   
91.04   Disposition of garbage
   
91.05   Accumulation and disposition of rubbish; outdoor fires
   
91.06   Street Commissioner
   
91.07   Assessment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Littering of streets, see §
92.23
Open fires in streets or alleys, see §
90.07
Waste receptacles and storage, see §
90.05
§ 91.01 TRANSPORTATION OF RUBBISH.
   No person shall transport garbage, rubbish, or other waste matter upon any
street, alley, road, or highway of the village in any vehicle unless the
vehicle be so constructed and maintained as to prevent offensive odors or
emanations therefrom and leaking, sifting, dropping, spilling, or blowing of
the contents upon the street, alley, road, highway, right-of-way, or property,
public or private.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 RUBBISH COLLECTORS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting, or
disposing of rubbish within the village without first obtaining a license
therefor. Licenses shall be issued upon application to the Village Clerk on
forms provided by him or her and upon payment of an annual fee of $5.
   (B)   No such license shall be issued except upon certification by the
Village Clerk that the equipment and the ability of the licensee is such that
the licensee is able to conduct a rubbish collection business in accordance
with the terms of this chapter and rules and regulations adopted by the Village
Clerk hereunder. The Village Clerk shall make such rules and regulations
governing the operation of the business of rubbish collection, transportation,
and disposition as he or she may deem necessary.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall revoke the license of any rubbish collector
who fails to abide by any such rule or regulation or any provision of this
chapter. Prior revocation of a license shall be sufficient grounds for refusal
by the Village Clerk to certify any future application by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 REFUSE LITTERING AND ACCUMULATION.
   No paper, lawn cuttings, or rakings, leaves, weeds, ashes, or any other
refuse material whatsoever shall be thrown or swept into any street, gutter,
intake, alley, vacant lot, park, greenbelt, or other property whether public or
private. It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee, owner, or occupant of
any property at all times to maintain the premises in a clear and orderly
condition, permitting no deposit or accumulation of materials other than those
ordinarily attendant upon the day to day use for which the premises are legally
intended. It shall be unlawful to buy any animal or vegetable wastes anywhere
in the village, and it shall be unlawful to deposit, throw, or leave refuse on
the premises of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DISPOSITION OF GARBAGE.
   No person shall dispose of any garbage within the village other than by
means of an approved incinerator, approved garbage grinder, or a collection
service authorized to engage in that business by the village.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ACCUMULATION AND DISPOSITION OF RUBBISH; OUTDOOR FIRES.
   (A)   Accumulation and disposition of rubbish. Any rubbish accumulated or
stored outside of a dwelling or building on any premises shall be stored in a
suitable receptacle, can, vessel, tank, or container which is watertight and
covered with a tightly-fitting cover. No rubbish may be stored or accumulated
which is contaminated by any garbage as herein defined, unless stored as
garbage. Rubbish shall be disposed of only to a licensed rubbish collector,
except that any person may dispose of his or her own rubbish by an approved
incinerator located within a building.
   (B)   Outdoor fires.
      (1)   Findings. The village hereby finds that the burning of leaves,
other yard waste, and garbage is a matter of public health concern. The burning
of these materials results in the production of air pollution which is laden
with suspended particles and the emission of known carcinogenic agents (by way
of example, benzopryine) and mold spores, which are known to aggravate hay
fever and other allergies and cause respiratory distress. The village finds
that these harmful effects can be mitigated by the prohibition of leaf, yard,
and household waste burning. The regulation of this activity has been deemed to
be in the preservation of public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   Burning prohibited.
         (a)   Yard and other waste. No person, firm, or corporation shall
permit, or engage in, the act of burning leaves, yard waste, stumps, grass,
stubble, crops, crop residue, refuse, rubbish, paper products, or other
household wastes within the limits of the village.
         (b)   Fireworks and campfires. All unlicensed and/or unpermitted
fireworks, other than municipally-sponsored displays, are also included in this
ban. Further, all campfires are hereby banned, except those within permanent
established metal or masonry containers or fire rings at authorized campgrounds
and places of habitation. Authorized campgrounds are those with permanently
established roads and campsites, having permanently designated locations for
campfires, such as state parks, most privately-, county-, and township-operated
campgrounds, state forest campgrounds, and national forest campgrounds.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Location. The location of the fire must be a reasonable distance
from any structure and adequate provisions to prevent the fire from spreading
to any structure must be utilized. For purposes of this chapter, a reasonable
distance shall be construed to be not less than 25 feet.
         (b)   Attendance. A bonfire, or other outdoor fire permissible under
this section, shall be constantly attended by an adult of at least 18 years of
age until the fire is completely extinguished. The fire shall have a water
supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use on site.
         (c)   Safety. The Fire Marshal may prohibit any and all bonfires when
atmospheric conditions or circumstances make such fires hazardous, or when, in
the opinion of the Fire Marshal, the bonfire would constitute a fire hazard or
endanger the life or property of another.
            1.   The ban does not include charcoal, propane, or liquid-fueled
camping stoves or grills. Brush burning is allowed by permit only.
            2.   For purposes of campfires and/or bonfires as stated above, and
for any other outdoor fires which are permissible under this section, the
following precautions shall be met:
               a.   No burning of any flammable materials, including refuse,
brush, stumps, rubbish, grass, stubble, leaves, crops, or crop residue. Debris
being burned in a burn barrel is included in the ban. All fireworks, other than
municipally-sponsored displays, are also included in the ban;
               b.   All campfires and bonfires shall be contained within
established metal or masonry containers or fire rings at authorized campgrounds
or place(s) of habitation. Authorized campgrounds are those with permanently
established roads and campsites, having permanently designated locations for
campfires, such as state parks, most privately-, county-, and township-operated
campgrounds, state forest campgrounds, and national forest campgrounds;
               c.   Fires shall be attended by a competent adult at all times;
and
               d.   Materials satisfactory to extinguish the fire shall be kept
reasonably close at hand and on the premises where the fire is placed.
            3.   Fires set for the instruction and training of public and
industrial firefighting personnel; provided adequate notice is given to
surrounding property owners.
            4.   Fire set to agricultural lands for disease and pest control
and other accepted agricultural wildlife management practices.
      (4)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Authorized entities. The Village Police Department and the
Village Fire Chief are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Duties. The enforcement duties authorized by this section shall
include, among others, the following: investigation of ordinance violations;
serving notices of violations; serving appearance tickets, as authorized under
Public Act 175 of 1927, Ch. 4, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.1 et seq., as amended, and
Public Act 366 of 1984, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9c and 764.9f; appearance in
court or other judicial proceedings to assist in the prosecution of ordinance
violators, and the ordinance enforcement duties may be designated from time to
time by the Village President not inconsistent with this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. passed 8-14-2018)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner of the village to supervise
and keep the streets and alleys of the village free and clear of all
obstructions, rubbish, ashes, and all matter or things.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 91.07 ASSESSMENT.
   Should any expense be incurred by the Street Commissioner in removing any of
the obstructions, rubbish, ashes, matter, or things from any of the streets and
alleys of the village, it shall be his or her duty to keep an account thereof,
and report the same to the Village Council; and the same shall become a charge
against the person placing or causing the obstructions, rubbish, ashes, matter,
or things to be placed in the streets or alleys in the village, and may be
collected by the village in an action of debt against that person. In cases
where the person placing or causing the obstruction, rubbish, ashes, matter, or
things to be placed in any street or alley in the village is the owner of the
premises, street, or alley in which the obstruction, rubbish, ashes, matter, or
thing is placed, then the expense of the removal thereof may be levied and
collected as a special assessment on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, or fails to comply
with, any provisions of §
91.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not more than $500, or imprisoned for a period not more than 30 days,
or both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court. Each day
that the violation continues is a separate violation for purpose of enforcement
of this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 12, passed 3-18-1968)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisances
   
92.01   Cesspool; dry well; drain field
   
92.02   Offensive substances on premises
   
92.03   Keeping of hogs
   
92.04   Refuse; household garbage
   
92.05   Infectious or contagious animals
   
92.06   Removal and disposal of dead animals
   
92.07   Abatement; lien
   
92.08   Enforcement
Public Nuisances
   
92.20   Nuisance defined and prohibited
   
92.21   Dangerous structures and premises
   
92.22   Emergency abatement
   
92.23   Littering of streets
   
92.24   Noise control; general prohibition
   
92.25   Specific acts prohibited
   
92.26   Abandoned refrigerators
   
92.27   Lock removal
   
92.28   Cutting of grass and weeds
   
92.29   Duty of occupant or owner; vegetation
   
92.30   When village to do work
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 92.01 CESSPOOL; DRY WELL; DRAIN FIELD.
   No cesspool, dry well, drain field, or reservoir into which a privy, water
closet, or sink is drained shall be established or permitted within distance of
any well, spring, or other source of water used for drinking or culinary
purposes so as to contaminate the source of water supply. The cesspools, dry
wells, drain fields, or reservoirs shall be cleaned out at least once a year.
No property owner shall suffer or permit water to be drawn from any well, or
any other source of water supply on premises owned by him or her, which is not
perfectly clean and wholesome. All cesspools, dry wells, and drain fields shall
be constructed according to minimum standards established by the State
Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES ON PREMISES.
   No person, or persons, shall suffer or permit any stagnant or filthy water,
dead animals, putrid meats, decayed fruits or vegetables, or any foul or
offensive drain, sink, privy, slops, garbage, manure, or any other offensive
thing that may be detrimental to the health of any person, to remain on his,
her, or their premises; nor shall they deposit the same in any street, alley,
open lot, or stream within the village limits. All such offensive articles
shall be buried at least 100 feet distant from any well, spring, or other
source of water used for drinking or culinary purposes.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 KEEPING OF HOGS.
   No hogs shall be kept within 200 feet of any dwelling or source of drinking
water, and then only in pens with floors kept entirely free from standing water
and regularly cleaned with disinfectant at least twice a week.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REFUSE; HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE.
   All garbage, swill, or house refuse shall be kept in properly covered
receptacles, and shall be removed at least once a week.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 INFECTIOUS OR CONTAGIOUS ANIMALS.
   No animal affected with an infectious or contagious disease shall be brought
or kept within the limits of jurisdiction of the Board, except by permission of
the Board, or its Health Officer. Likewise, no diseased animal or its flesh,
and no decayed, diseased, or unfit meat, fish, vegetables, fruit, adulterated
milk, or other articles shall be sold or offered for sale as food.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   When any animal or fowl shall die within the limits of this village, the
same shall be removed by the owner or occupant of the premises on which it is
found within 24 hours, and buried at a reasonable depth below the surface of
the ground so as to leave no stench; and if the owner or occupant shall fail to
perform the above duty within 24 hours after notification by the Board or its
Health Officer, he or she shall be liable to the penalty hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Board of Health, it shall be deemed
necessary for the public’s health, the Board will, at once, take possession of
any building, dwelling house, shed, outhouse, premises, or ground upon which,
in its judgment, there exists any nuisance prejudicial to public health; and,
if the owner or occupant shall refuse or neglect to forthwith abate the
nuisance in the manner directed by the Board, the Board will cause the same to
be abated forthwith in such a manner as it may deem proper, and all expenses
incurred thereby shall be a legal claim against the owner and a lien upon the
property, to be collected in the same way as other special assessments.
   (B)   The Board will also, when they deem it requisite for the public
health, at once, and by force, if necessary, close up the aforesaid buildings
or premises, and exclude all occupants therefrom, until the nuisance shall have
been fully abated. Any person who shall resist the action of the Board or its
agents under this rule shall be liable to the penalties hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the above-named rules
and regulations and notify the Village Council, or the Village Prosecuting
Attorney, of any violations of the same.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) (Ord. 4, passed 2-20-1967)
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.20 NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whatever annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs, or
renders dangerous any street, highway, or navigable lake or stream; or, in any
way, renders the public insecure in life or property, is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance.
   (B)   Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provision of this subchapter. No person shall commit, create,
or maintain any nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 DANGEROUS STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   No person shall maintain any structure which is a menace to the health,
morals, or safety of the public. No person owning or occupying any premises
shall permit any condition to exist thereon which endangers the public health
or safety.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
   The Village President may abate any such public nuisance, if the public
safety or health requires immediate action, without preliminary order of the
Village Council. Thereafter, the cost of abating the nuisance shall be charged
against the premises and the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 92.23 LITTERING OF STREETS.
   No person shall place, deposit, throw, scatter, or leave in any street,
alley, or public place, or on the private property of another, any refuse,
waste, garbage, dead animal, wash water, or other noxious or unsightly
material.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 NOISE CONTROL; GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist in creating, permit,
continue, or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing,
unusual, or unnecessary noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others within the
limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 SPECIFIC ACTS PROHIBITED.
   Each of the following acts is hereby declared unlawful and prohibited, but
this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   The sounding, or permitting to be sounded, of any signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while the vehicle is not in
motion, except as a danger signal, if another vehicle is approaching apparently
out of control, or while the vehicle is in motion, except when a signal is
necessary to ensure the safety, and then only to the extent that signal is
reasonably necessary for that purpose; the use of any such vehicle upon a
public street when the vehicle is so out of repair or has such defective,
insufficient, inadequate, damaged, altered, or broken parts or equipment, or
when the vehicle has sustained such mechanical or other defects so as to create
loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other disturbing noises;
the sounding of a horn or signal device for purposes of repair or testing,
except within a suitably-enclosed building, and then only under circumstances
which are such that the sounding of the horn or other signal device cannot be a
nuisance to others; the creation by means of such signal devices of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of the devices for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of any such vehicle upon a
public street, when the vehicle is so out of repair, or is so loaded, or when
it has sustained such mechanical or other defects as to create loud, or
unnecessary, grating, grinding, rattling, or other disturbing noises;
   (B)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, or musical instrument of any
character in such a manner or with the volume, at any time or place so as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office,
dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence or of any person in the vicinity;
   (C)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by frequent, loud, or long-
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (D)   The discharge into open air of exhaust of any steam engine, compressed
air machine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or any other
machine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive or disturbing noises therefrom;
   (E)   The creation of a loud unnecessary noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and closing or destruction
of bales, boxes, crates, or other containers;
   (F)   Yelling, shouting, whistling, loud talking, or singing on the public
street, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at other
times or places so as to annoy or disturb the quiet comfort or repose of
persons in any office, dwelling, motel, or any other type of residence or of
any persons in the vicinity;
   (G)   The use of any drums, loudspeakers, musical devices, or other
instruments or devices for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation
of noise to any performance, show, sale, or display of merchandise;
   (H)   The use of mechanical loudspeakers, amplifiers, and public address
systems in trucks or other vehicles for any purpose whatsoever, except when
specific permit is first granted by the Village President;
   (I)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler or
whistle operated by compressed air, except to give notice of the time to begin
or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or except upon request by
proper authorities;
   (J)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair of any
building in a residential or business district, other than between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in cases of urgent necessity, in
the interest of public safety, and then only upon permission having been first
obtained from the Village President;
   (K)   The carrying on, or operation of, any business, trade, or occupation
located in a residential section of the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. which makes an unusual, loud, frequent, or disturbing noise,
causing a nuisance and disturbance to any person residing in the vicinity;
   (L)   (1)   Display or possession of any fireworks, except of the type and
under the conditions permitted by the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, Public Act
256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 through 471, including combustion-driven
lanterns;
      (2)   Fire or discharge of any fireworks set forth in division (L)(1)
above on any days other than the day preceding, the day of, or the day after a
legally-recognized national holiday;
      (3)   In no event shall fireworks be used between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 8:00 a.m. on national holidays and the days before and after a national
holiday;
      (4)   Fireworks shall not be used or possessed by a minor unless under
the direct supervision of an adult;
      (5)   An individual shall not use fireworks while under the influence of
alcohol or a controlled substance, or a combination of the two, as defined in
the Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated; and
      (6)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use fireworks on public
property, school property, or the property of another person or organization
without that person’s or organization’s express permission to use those
fireworks on said premises.
   (M)   The practicing and training of any drum corps, band, orchestra, or
other musical organization, or the practice by individuals on the various
musical instruments, which produces a noise or disturbance, and which annoys
the peace, repose, and comfort of the residents in the vicinity thereof;
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly or wantonly, to
operate, or cause to be operated, any machine, device, apparatus, or instrument
of any kind whatsoever between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., the
operation of which shall cause reasonably-preventable electrical interference
with radio or reception in the village; provided, however, that X-ray pictures,
examinations, or treatments may be made at any time if the machines or
apparatuses used therefor are properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or
reasonably-preventable interference with radio and television reception and are
not negligently operated. This section shall not be construed to embrace the
regulation of any transmitting, broadcasting, or receiving instrument,
apparatus, or device used in interstate commerce or the operation of which
instrument, apparatus, or device is licensed or authorized by or under the
provisions of any act of the Congress of the United States;
   (O)   The operation of drones (mechanical flying devices/vehicles) is
strictly prohibited over permitted mass gatherings within the village unless
the same is done under the authority of the permit and with the promoter’s/land
owner’s express permission and in compliance with all FAA regulations
applicable hereto; and
   (P)   No person shall construct or operate a Ferris wheel or similar device,
unless the same is done under the authority of a permit, and with the land
owner’s express permission, and in compliance with all state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. passed 5-16-2017; Ord.
(2), passed 5-16-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended, or
discarded ice box, refrigerator, or any other container of any kind which has
an airtight door or lock which may not be released for opening from the inside
of the ice box, refrigerator, or container.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 LOCK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended, or
discarded ice box, refrigerator, or any other container of any kind which has
an airtight snap-lock or other device thereon without first removing the snap-
lock or doors from the ice box, refrigerator, or container.
(Prior Code, § 92.27) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 CUTTING OF GRASS AND WEEDS.
   (A)   No person occupying any premises, and no person owning any unoccupied
premises, shall permit or maintain on any such premises within 200 feet of any
building or house any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation to a
greater height than six inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead
weeds, grass, or brush.
   (B)   No such occupant or owner shall cause, suffer, or allow ivy, ragweed,
or other poisonous plants, or plants detrimental to health, to grow on any
premises in such manner that any part of the ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous
or harmful weed shall extend upon, overhang, or border any public place, or
allow seed pollen or other particles or emanations therefrom to be carried
through the air into any public place.
(Prior Code, § 92.28) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 DUTY OF OCCUPANT OR OWNER; VEGETATION.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every premises, and the owner of
unoccupied premises, within the village to cut and remove or destroy by lawful
means all such weeds, grass, or rank, poisonous, or harmful vegetation as often
as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of §
92.28; provided that the cutting, removing, or destroying of the weeds, grass,
and vegetation at least once in every three weeks between March 15 and
September 15 of each year shall be deemed to be in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.29) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 WHEN VILLAGE TO DO WORK.
   (A)   If the provisions of §§
92.28 and
92.29 above are not complied with, the Village President, or his or her duly-
authorized representative, shall notify the occupant, or the owner of
unoccupied premises, to comply with the provisions of the sections within a
time to be specified in the notice, which notice shall be given by personal
service or by regular mail to the last known address of the owner or occupant.
   (B)   The notice shall require compliance with §§
92.28 and
92.29 within five days after service of the notice; and, if the notice is not
complied with within the time limited, the Village President shall cause the
weeds, grass, and other vegetation to be removed or destroyed, and the actual
cost of the cutting, removal, or destruction, plus 15% for inspection and other
additional costs in connection therewith, shall be collected as a special
assessment against the premises.
(Prior Code, § 92.30) (Ord. 20, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, if a person knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates the provisions of §
92.25(L), the person is guilty of a crime as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in §
92.25(L) or another section of the village’s code, a misdemeanor punishable by
a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period of not more than 30
days, or both such fine and imprisonment; or
      (2)   A civil infraction with fines as set forth for disorderly conduct
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-16-2017)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Authority to make rules
   
93.03   Trespass on park at night; street closing
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Campfires, bonfires, and other outdoor burning, see §
91.05
Outdoor mass gatherings, see
Ch. 96
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR, DIRECTOR OF RECREATION, CITY DIRECTOR or CITY DIRECTOR OF
RECREATION. The Village Clerk, unless otherwise designated by the Village
Council.
   PARK. Any public park, beach, recreational area, playground area, building,
or facility thereon within the village, which is owned, or maintained, by the
village, whether entirely or partially in conjunction with any other municipal
unit of government, school authority, or private owner, whether or not that
area has been formally dedicated to that purpose.
(Ord. 37, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 93.02 AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES.
   (A)   The Director of Recreation shall have the power to make additional
rules and regulations pertaining to the conduct and use of the parks and
playgrounds as are necessary to administer the parks and playgrounds and
protect public property and in the interest of the safety, health, morals, and
welfare of the public.
   (B)   These rules and regulations shall be effective for a period not to
exceed 30 days without the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 37, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 93.03 TRESPASS ON PARK AT NIGHT; STREET CLOSING.
   (A)   Except as set forth herein, no person shall occupy, use, loiter in, or
trespass in, or upon, any of the parks located within the village, as set forth
above, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. daily without the written
consent of the Director of Recreation.
   (B)   No person shall occupy, use, loiter in, or trespass in, or upon, the
park adjacent to the Village Hall between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   No person shall occupy, use, loiter in, or trespass in, or upon,
Czarny Park at, or near, Grant and Louis Streets between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (D)   During those periods as any adjoining streets and/or roads shall be
closed by the order of the village’s Police Chief, Village Clerk, or Fire
District, the streets shall be included as part of the park and all of the park
regulations adopted shall be applicable to those areas. This division deals
specifically with such situations as festivals, events, or other activities
which are prescheduled, and includes activities for which street closings are
made necessary.
(Ord. 37, passed 9-21-1999) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found violating any section of this chapter shall either be
arrested or ejected from the park, or have his or her permit and park
privileges confiscated for a period to be determined by the Director of
Recreation, and/or shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not
more than $500, or imprisonment for a period of not more than 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 37, passed 9-21-1999)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Intent
   
94.02   Keeping of domestic pets; definitions
   
94.03   Number of pets
   
94.04   Horses
   
94.05   Enforcement
   
94.06   Conditional use
Dogs Generally
   
94.20   Number of dogs
   
94.21   Kennels
   
94.22   Barking
Dogs Running at Large
   
94.35   Confinement
   
94.36   Seizure
   
94.37   Impoundment
   
94.38   Claiming impounded dogs
   
94.39   Conflicting provisions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Dead or infectious/contagious animals, see §§
92.05 and
92.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to ensure that the keeping of
animals within the village is not injurious to the health, safety, and welfare
of the residents of the village; to protect against the occurrence of offensive
odors, noise, accumulation of animal waste, and unsanitary conditions; and to
prevent against attack within the village.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are also calculated to maintain the
value of residential properties within the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 43, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 94.02 KEEPING OF DOMESTIC PETS; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Keeping of domestic pets. The keeping of domestic pets,
including dogs, cats, and caged birds, is permitted within the village,
provided that doing so is not in violation of any other local, state or federal
regulations. The term DOMESTIC PET includes any animal which the village’s
Police Chief determines is not likely to bite without provocation nor cause the
death, maiming, or illness of a human. The term DOMESTIC PETS does not include
exotic or wild animals, the keeping of which is expressly prohibited within the
village. Farm animals are prohibited, unless the same are kept as part of a
bona fide farm operation protected by the Michigan Right to Farm Act (MRFA),
Act 93 of 1981 and being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 et seq., or as otherwise provided
for herein.
      (2)   Keeping of female chickens.
         (a)   Any person who keeps female chickens in the village shall obtain
a permit from the village prior to acquiring the female chickens. Application
must be made by the property owner and shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
the fee from the permit shall be as determined by Council resolution. Permits
expire and become invalid two years after the date of issuance. A person who
wishes to continue keeping female chickens shall have obtained a new permit on
or before the expiration date of the previous permit. Application for a new
permit shall be pursuant to the procedures and requirements that are applicable
at the time the person applies for a new permit.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit by the village, private
restrictions on the use of property shall remain enforceable and take
precedence over a permit. Private restrictions include, but are not limited to,
deed restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions, and neighborhood
association bylaws and covenant deeds. A permit issued to a person whose
property is subject to the interpretation and enforcement of a private
restriction is the sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
         (c)   A person who keeps or houses female chickens on his or her
property shall comply with all of the following requirements:
            1.   Have been issued the permit required under division (A)(2)(a)
above;
            2.   If the lot is less than one acre, keep not more than five
female chickens, and if the lot is larger than one acre, keep not more than
seven female chickens;
            3.   The principal use of the person’s property is for a single-
family dwelling or a two- family dwelling;
            4.   No person shall keep any rooster;
            5.   No person shall slaughter any female chicken on his or her
property;
            6.   The female chickens shall be provided with a covered enclosure
and must be kept in the covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure at all times.
The fenced enclosure shall be not larger than 11 square feet per female chicken
in area. The coop and enclosure shall be constructed in such a manner so as to
prevent access by dogs, cats, and wildlife;
            7.   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located
closer than ten feet to any property line of an adjacent property;
            8.   A covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall not be located
closer than 20 feet to any residential structure on an adjacent property;
            9.   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of female
chickens which are likely to attract or to become infested shall be protected
so as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from gaining access to or coming
into contact with them;
            10.   All enclosures for the keeping of female chickens shall be so
constructed or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure; and
            11.   Female chicken waste shall be removed in an environmentally
responsible manner. Waste can be composted or bagged and removed. Dead female
chickens shall be immediately removed and disposed of properly. Piling waste on
the property is not allowed.
         (d)   A person who has been issued a permit shall submit it for
examination upon demand by any public safety officer or code enforcement
officer.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal which is not indigenous to the lower peninsula
of the state, or which is a hybrid of any animal not indigenous to the lower
peninsula of the state, regardless of the extent of the mix. Exceptions shall
be made for certain domesticated varieties of small (less than 24 inches long),
non-poisonous snakes and lizards which are caged, or otherwise contained,
within a dwelling unit.
      FARM ANIMAL. Animals customarily raised or kept for the production of
food or fiber or for draft labor, such as horses, swine, sheep, goats, llamas,
chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys, and cattle. FARM ANIMALS shall also include
any breed of animal which is not customarily kept within a dwelling unit, or
which is customarily raised for commercial profit or slaughter.
      KEEPING. Housing or storage; the same shall not be limited to permanent
housing or storage, but shall also include temporary housing or storage for any
purpose within the village.
      WILD ANIMAL. Any undomesticated or domesticated animal which is
indigenous to the lower peninsula of the state, including bears, deer,
squirrels, skunks, opossums, woodchucks, raccoons, wolves, and foxes, or any
hybridization, regardless of the degree of mix of the aforementioned types of
animals.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 43, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. passed 3-12-2019)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NUMBER OF PETS.
   Except as otherwise set forth herein, the keeping of more than four pets
permitted by this subchapter within the village, in any combination, shall be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 43, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 50, passed 11-26-2007)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 HORSES.
   The keeping of horses shall be allowed by residents of the village subject
to the following:
   (A)   The keeping of horses is prohibited on parcels of less than ten acres.
PARCELS are defined as contiguous lots or land owned by one person or the same
persons or entity.
   (B)   For each ten continuous acres owned and occupied by a resident, three
horses shall be allowed.
   (C)   As promulgated by the State Department of Agriculture, horses shall be
kept in a corral or fenced area.
   (D)   The fenced area or corral shall not be within 100 feet of a well or
dwelling.
   (E)   The fenced area or corral shall not be within 100 feet of any stream,
waterway, pond, or lake.
   (F)   Horses must be owned by the residents keeping the same.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Police Department is authorized to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   The enforcement duties authorized by this subchapter shall include,
among others, the following: investigation of ordinance violations; serving
notices of violations; serving appearance tickets, as authorized under Public
Act 175 of 1927, Ch. 4, as amended, and Public Act 366 of 1984, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 764.9c and 764.9f; appearance in court or other judicial proceedings to
assist in the prosecution of ordinance violators, and such ordinance
enforcement duties as made to be designated, from time to time, by the Village
President not inconsistent with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 43, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 50, passed 11-26-2007)
§ 94.06 CONDITIONAL USE.
   A resident or other person may petition the village for a permit to keep
farm animals, otherwise prohibited herein, by submitting to the process for a
conditional use as contained in the village’s Zoning Ordinances, found in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances, or an event permit for the temporary
keeping (parades and the like) by application to the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 43, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 50, passed 11-26-2007)
DOGS GENERALLY
§ 94.20 NUMBER OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, maintain, keep, or allow more than two
dogs older than four months of age at any home, residence, building, structure,
or real property within the village; provided, however, a litter of puppies may
be kept for a period not exceeding four months from birth.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) (Ord. 39, passed 2-16-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 KENNELS.
   Commercial kennels are prohibited within the village. A private kennel may
be used for the sole purpose of housing or penning the allowed number of dogs
provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) (Ord. 39, passed 2-16-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 BARKING.
   No person shall own, keep, or allow any dog which, by loud, frequent, or
habitual barking, yelping, howling, or long continued noise causes the
annoyance or disturbs the comfort and repose of any person in the vicinity or
neighborhood, particularly during the hours of 10:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m., or
at other times.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. 39, passed 2-16-1993) Penalty, see §
94.99
DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 94.35 CONFINEMENT.
   No person shall permit a dog to run at large within the corporate limits of
the village; and no dog shall be permitted upon any public street, alley, or
other public place in the village, unless accompanied by the owner or person
having custody thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.35) (Ord. 25, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 SEIZURE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers or any special officers named by
the village for the purpose to forthwith seize any dog, whether licensed or
otherwise, found running at large or upon any public street, alley, or other
public place within the village unaccompanied by its owner or person having
custody thereof, and thereupon to confine the same in the village’s dog pound
to be provided upon the adoption of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.36) (Ord. 25, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 94.37 IMPOUNDMENT.
   If it shall not appear from the records in the office of the Village
Treasurer that any dog so impounded is licensed under a valid subsisting
license pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 339 of 1919, being M.C.L.A. §§
287.261 through 287.290, as amended, the village’s Police Chief shall, at the
expiration of 72 hours after impounding the dog, surrender the dog to the
County Sheriff, or any member of the state constabulary of the state, or make
other disposition under the provisions of § 17 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
287.277.
(Prior Code, § 94.37) (Ord. 25, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 94.38 CLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   If any person owning or having custody of any dog so impounded which has
been licensed pursuant to the Act under a valid subsisting license, shall,
within 72 hours after the impounding of the dog, apply to the Police Chief for
the release of the dog, and pay to the Village Treasurer an impounding fee of
$5, the Police Chief of the village shall surrender the dog to the owner or
person having had custody thereof. Otherwise, upon the expiration of the 72
hours, the Police Chief shall surrender the dog to the Sheriff of the County of
Oceana, or any member of the state’s constabulary, or make other disposition
pursuant to the Act; provided, in the event a complaint shall have been made by
any person pursuant to § 26-A of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 287.280, and
knowledge of the complaint shall be communicated to the Police Chief, the dog
shall be restrained in the village dog pound until the disposition of the
complaint, subject to the orders of the court having jurisdiction of the
complaint.
(Prior Code, § 94.38) (Ord. 25, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.39 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to conflict with any of the
provisions of the Act, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 94.39) (Ord. 25, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, or fails to comply
with, any provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not more than $200, or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days,
or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. Each day
that the violation continues is a separate violation for purposes of
enforcement of §§
94.01 through
94.06.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.20 through
94.22 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to by a fine not more than $75, or imprisonment in the
county’s jail for a period of not more than 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.35 through
94.39 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine not more than $75, or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period of not more than 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 94.99)
(Ord. 25, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. 39, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 43, passed 4-15-
2003)
CHAPTER 95: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Violations; additional remedies
   
95.04   Maintenance standards
Cross-reference:
Grass and weed maintenance, rank vegetation removal, see §§
92.28 and
92.29
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all properties in the village.
It is the intent of this chapter to set minimum standards of maintenance of
exterior features of the buildings and of yard maintenance to eliminate
blighting influences, attractive nuisances, and situations detrimental to the
safety and welfare of occupants. All properties shall be maintained in
accordance with the general provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 95, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTING INFLUENCE. Any real condition of real or personal property, or the
use of real or personal property, which, if allowed to continue, may reasonably
be expected to cause the deterioration or devaluation of neighboring
properties, or provide attractive nuisances, or endanger the safety and welfare
of the occupants. Such condition or use includes the maintenance of yards,
fences, dwellings, accessory buildings, or other appurtenances and the location
on any property of equipment or facilities.
(Ord. 95, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 95.03 VIOLATIONS; ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any person, or anyone acting on behalf of that person, violating any
of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished
in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any owner or other person fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and/or maintains his or her property in such a way so as to
constitute a blighting influence, the village may bring an action to enjoin the
continuance of such violation.
   (C)   In addition to other penalties or remedies provided for in this
chapter, the court may order the abatement of the violation, allowing the
village to enter upon the premises to effectuate compliance with this chapter.
When the expense of effectuating such compliance is not provided for, the court
may enter an order approving such expense; providing that there shall be a lien
on the real property for payment thereof.
(Ord. 95, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 95.04 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   All properties shall comply with all ordinances regulating building,
housing, garbage, trash, refuse, weeds, and zoning and with the following
specific standards.
   (A)   Fences. All fences shall be maintained in good repair and shall be
erected in compliance with all applicable village codes and ordinances. Broken
or damaged fences shall be repaired with the same style and height of fencing.
   (B)   Painting. No dwelling shall be painted with unusual designs,
including, but not limited to: designs advertising products; polka dots;
stripes; pictures; or words. Paint shall be maintained in accordance with
reasonable maintenance practices.
   (C)   Window covering; temporary exterior wall covering. Visquene, or other
exterior window covering, shall be maintained in good condition, free from
tears, and securely fastened to the building. Visquene may be used as a
temporary exterior wall covering where required for protection due to
construction, fire, accident or act of God, and shall be maintained in good
condition, free from tears, and securely fastened to the building. For the
purposes of this section, TEMPORARY shall be construed to mean not longer than
30 days.
   (D)   Storage on porches. Storage of trash, garbage, waste materials, and
appliances shall be prohibited on unenclosed front porches. Any furniture or
furnishings manufactured, or intended to be, for indoor use, and is not
constructed to be used outdoors, shall not be placed within the yard or on any
unenclosed porch or similar area that will allow access for vermin, weather, or
arson.
   (E)   Siding. All siding on any one wall of a structure shall be complete
and of the same type. Windows or other openings which are removed shall be
covered with like-siding materials as those used on that wall, except that
ornamental changes in texture and materials may be used.
   (F)   Broken windows or doors on occupied structures. Broken windows or
doors shall be replaced. Broken windows or doors may be temporarily covered
under the rules of divisions (C) and (E) above. If the windows or doors are to
be permanently removed, a building permit shall be obtained to assure that the
permanent closure does not create a building code violation for a required
ingress/egress or for required ventilation.
   (G)   Roofing. Original roofing and roof repairs shall be made with
materials which shall consist of a similar color or complementary colors.
Repairs shall not be made with dissimilar materials or contrasting colors. This
shall not prohibit the temporary repair of a roof with contrasting material
until suitable materials is procured. For the purposes of this section,
TEMPORARY shall be construed to mean not longer than 30 days.
   (H)   Garage and accessory buildings. Overhead and service doors on all
garages and accessory buildings shall be maintained in good and working order.
Doors shall be closed when the garage and accessory building is not in use and/
or at night.
   (I)   Rubbish in yards. Yards shall be maintained in a clean, orderly
fashion and shall not contain any hazardous or non-hazardous non-putrescible
solid water, except ashes, consisting of, but not limited to: combustible and
noncombustible waste, including: cardboard; metal containers; car parts; wood;
glass; trash; rubber; brush; bedding; carpet; crockery; home furnishings; used
or demolished building materials; litter of any kind; and discarded items of
little, or no, apparent value.
   (J)   Unoccupied houses. Unoccupied houses shall comply with this chapter.
All unoccupied houses, except for seasonal cottages, second homes, and the
like, shall have no items stored in any yard.
   (K)   Garbage. All garbage, including, but not limited to: food wastes,
including waste accumulation of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter used, or
intended to be used, food; or that attends the preparation, uses, cooking,
dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetable, shall be
stored within watertight containers (garbage cans) having a capacity of not
less than ten gallons, nor more than 100 gallons, with sides tapered to an
enlarged opening and equipped with handles and a tightly-fitting cover, except
that plastic garbage and rubbish bags shall not be stored outside awaiting
collection by a refuse service for a period exceeding 12 hours. Garbage cans
shall not be stored by the street, except for a 24-hour period preceding
regularly scheduled collection. Putrescible wastes shall not be stored in any
container for more than seven days.
(Ord. 95, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions; types
   
96.03   Permit required
   
96.04   Application; fee
   
96.05   Permit process
   
96.06   Insurance
   
96.07   Administrator
   
96.08   Fire Chief
   
96.09   Health Officer
   
96.10   Limitations
   
96.11   Enforcement
   
96.12   Infrastructure Fund
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   Being immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, and safety, if an emergency is declared to exist, this chapter took
effect immediately upon its passage.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS; TYPES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Village Council.
   ORGANIZER. Any person who holds, stages, or sponsors an outdoor mass
gathering, or the owner, lessee, or possessor of the real property upon which
the outdoor mass gathering is to take place.
   OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING. An actual or reasonably-anticipated assembly of
5,000 or more attendees, not counting organizers, agents, and workers, which
continues, or can reasonably be expected to continue, for more than 24
consecutive hours within any 12-month period within the areas of the village
which is held primarily in open spaces.
      (1)   An actual or reasonably-anticipated assembly of less than 5,000
persons is not an OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING and is not a land use for the purposes
of this chapter.
      (2)   An actual or reasonably-anticipated assembly of 5,000 or more
persons which does not continue, and is not reasonably expected to continue,
for more than 24 consecutive hours is not an OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING and is not
a land use for the purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   OUTDOOR MASS GATHERINGS are not land uses and do not vest any
zoning rights, other than set forth herein.
   OUTDOOR MASS GATHERING PLAN or PLAN. A plan prepared by, or on behalf of,
the organizer that sets forth and details the organizer’s plan to protect the
health and safety of both the outdoor mass gathering attendees and the citizens
and properties in the vicinity of the outdoor mass gathering, as well as access
by public safety and emergency vehicles to the outdoor mass gathering.
      (1)   The PLAN shall include a traffic management plan (for both the
property in which the outdoor mass gathering is to transpire, and also on
nearby public roads) and an emergency first response plan for providing
emergency medical first responders to participants at the outdoor mass
gathering.
      (2)   The PLAN shall provide for: adequate free potable water supply,
drainage, and sewerage facilities; adequate toilet facilities; adequate refuse
storage and disposal facilities; adequate food and sanitary food service, if
applicable; adequate emergency medical facilities and communication
arrangements; adequate fire protection; and adequate personnel for security and
traffic control.
      (3)   The PLAN shall contain a site plan, together with a statement
concerning the outdoor mass gathering capacity. The PLAN shall be approved by
the State Police (or other law enforcement agency that will have primary
jurisdiction over the outdoor mass gathering), the village’s Fire Chief and the
District No. 10 Health Official before the permit is finally approved by the
Board.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE. Includes a stadium, an arena, an auditorium, a
coliseum, a fairgrounds, or other similar established place for assemblies.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Includes tents, trailers, stages, chemical toilet
facilities, and other structures customarily erected or cited for temporary
use.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§ 96.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No organizer shall hold or conduct an outdoor mass gathering, or allow
an outdoor mass gathering to be held, on real property the organizer owns,
leases, or possesses, unless a permit to hold such outdoor mass gathering has
been issued by the Village Board.
   (B)   A permit is subject to the Village Board’s approval, or the approval
of an individual determined by the Village Board, of the site plan for every
mass gathering event. A site plan must be submitted to the village 60 days
before every mass gathering event. Additionally, the village, in its sole
discretion, may require that the applicant appear before the Village Board, in
person, 60 days prior to the mass gathering, and 60 days after the mass
gathering, to answer any questions or hear any concerns the village may have.
   (C)   A permit issued under this chapter shall not be deemed to authorize or
include a permit issued under the village’s Zoning Ordinance, found in
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. Any permanent improvement to the
property upon which an outdoor mass gathering is to occur which falls under the
jurisdiction of the Zoning Ordinance shall require a separate zoning permit.
   (D)   A permit issued under this chapter may be issued for up to ten
consecutive years; provided, however, that the applicant is required to provide
the village all information related to his, her, or their mass gathering event
within the time frames required by this chapter as the mass gathering
application, as amended from time to time. No permit shall be issued for any
mass gathering that is to take place later than ten years after the date the
application is submitted.
   (E)   If at any point the applicant fails to abide by this or any other
village ordinance, as amended from time to time, or the requirements contained
within the application, as amended from time to time, the village shall have
the right to immediately revoke the permit.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 9-17-2019) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   The Board may adopt, by order or resolution, an application form which
must be used by the organizers. The form shall require organizers to sign and
certify the accuracy and truthfulness of the statements made in the
application.
      (1)   Until an application form is adopted, organizers may prepare their
own application forms, but the forms shall include a signed certification of
the accuracy and truthfulness of the statements made in the application.
Further, said application shall include a maximum attendance capacity and a
proposed site plan.
      (2)   A final site plan shall be submitted not less than 60 days prior to
the event. Applications shall be submitted as soon as practical to the Village
Clerk, but not less than 180 days prior to the date of the mass gathering.
Applications may be submitted to the Village Board on an annual basis for a
ten-year period.
   (B)   Applications shall include, but are not limited to, a memorandum of
contract between the landowner(s) and organizer, setting forth the identity of
the contracting parties, the area of the land authorized by the contract, and
the date(s) of use of the contract. Further, the application shall include
either any and all contracts with or the written approvals of the organizer’s
plans by the applicable Fire Chief, or his or her designated agent, the State
Police, and the District No. 10 Health Official, or be supplemented with the
same as they become available.
   (C)   Further, all applications for a permit shall contain a statement that
the organizer shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the village and its
agents and officials in regard to the event and all claims associated
therewith, regardless of the claims source. All permits granted under this
chapter shall contain this requirement. The Village Board may require a meeting
between the Village Board and the organizer after the submission of an
application and prior to granting a permit.
   (D)   Before accepting an application for the outdoor mass gathering permit,
the Board shall collect an application fee. The fee shall be set, and may be
changed, by order or resolution of the Board. The fee shall cover all out-of-
pocket costs of the village in processing the same.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 7-29-2016; Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§ 96.05 PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application and permit fee for a permit to hold an
outdoor mass gathering, the Board shall require that the organizer obtain the
approval of the organizer’s plan by the State Police (or the County Sheriff’s
Department, if the MSP declines to review the Plan), the village’s Fire Chief,
or his or her designated agent, and the District No. 10 Health Official before
the permit is finally approved by the Board.
   (B)   If there are questions about the approval by any such entities of the
organizer’s plan, the Board may direct a representative thereof to communicate
with such third-party reviewing agency to address any such question. The Board
may, in addition, request comment on the application from any other third-
party reviewing agency or official who, in the Board’s opinion, may be
affected, or whose comments might assist the Village Board.
   (C)   The Board shall consider such application for an outdoor mass
gathering permit and shall grant the same if it:
      (1)   Demonstrates compliance with, or the ability to comply with, the
administrative rules of the appropriate county/state regulatory agencies, State
Police, and the Fire Chief of the district in which the mass gathering is to be
held;
      (2)   Demonstrates that the proposed outdoor mass gathering will not make
any permanent physical alterations to, or on, the real property which is the
site of the outdoor mass gathering (except for permanent physical alterations
that have been, or will be, approved pursuant to the village’s zoning permit
processes), or materially alter the capability to use the real property upon
which the outdoor mass gathering is to be held in the future for uses
designated under the real property’s Comprehensive Plan and zoning designation;
      (3)   Demonstrates compliance with, or the ability to comply with, the
requirements of the State Liquor Commission, if alcohol will be served and, if
applicable, the Village Police Department;
      (4)   Demonstrates that the proposed outdoor mass gathering will not
disturb persons or property in the vicinity of the gathering for reasons such
as, but not limited to, excessive noise, dust, drunkenness, or trespassing. In
all cases, outdoor amplified sound shall cease by 2:00 a.m., unless a later
time is approved by the Village Board; and
      (5)   Demonstrates that the proposed outdoor mass gathering complies
with, and is permitted and approved by, the Department of Environment, Great
Lakes, and Energy (EGLE), or other entity having jurisdiction over camping.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§ 96.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Board determines that outdoor mass gatherings inherently create a
potential for injury to persons or property. Therefore, organizers are required
to obtain an insurance policy in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for permits
up to 10,000 people, and $5,000,000 for permits over 10,000 people and up to
50,000 people, with no aggregate. For events over 50,000, the Board shall set
the insurance requirements as it takes action on the permit applications.
      (1)   The policy of casualty insurance shall provide coverage against
liability for the death, injury or disability of any human, or for damage to
property arising out of the outdoor mass gathering.
      (2)   The village, its officers, agents, and employees, Grant Township,
the Fire Chief, and the State Police shall be named as additional insures under
the policy.
   (B)   In the event of failure to remove all debris or residue and repair any
damage to personal or real property arising out of the outdoor mass gathering,
or to remove any temporary structures used at the outdoor mass gathering,
within a reasonable time after its termination, the village shall inform the
organizers and landowners of said continuing condition and/or violation and set
a reasonable time to cure.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board may, by order of resolution, appoint a person or hire additional
experts to assist it in administering this chapter and applications filed
pursuant to the same, and the cost of the same shall be born by the applicant.
Said Administrator and experts shall have complete access to all facets of the
event before, during, and after the event to monitor compliance; provided
further, that the designation of an Administrator, experts, and their
respective estimated costs shall be specified in the permit granted.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015)
§ 96.08 FIRE CHIEF.
   Upon receipt of an application for an outdoor mass gathering permit the Fire
Chief shall consider, before approving or denying the permit, the requirements
of emergency medical facilities and fire protection; the Fire Chief may
consider the public health, safety, and welfare in this determination, but the
rationale for the determination shall be stated in the Fire Chief’s approval of
denial of the application.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015)
§ 96.09 HEALTH OFFICER.
   Along with the notice of an application for an outdoor mass gathering
permit, the Board shall request the District No. 10 Health Official to
recommend whether to approve or deny the permit considering the requirements of
water supply, drainage, sewerage facilities, refuse storage and disposal, food
and sanitary food service, and, in addition to the Fire Chief, emergency
medical facilities, and also considering the public health, safety, and welfare
as rationale for the District No. 10 Health Official’s recommendations.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015)
§ 96.10 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Not more than three permits may be issued under this chapter for
an outdoor mass gathering of more than 10,000 people during any 12-month period
for the same organizer or property.
      (2)   In addition, not more than three permits may be issued under this
chapter for outdoor mass gathering up to 10,000 people in any 12-month period
for the same organizer or property; provided, the same are adequately spaced in
time to allow for the provision of fire, security, and welfare of the village
and mass gathering proposed.
      (3)   The Board, upon request, may waive the limitations to the total
number of mass gatherings for charitable events; provided, the village’s
health, safety, and welfare is not impugned.
   (B)   An actual, or reasonably-anticipated, assembly of 1,000 or more
persons which continues, or can reasonably be expected to continue, for more
than 120 hours within any 12-month period within the village is prohibited,
unless approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 96.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced as provided herein; in addition, any
violators hereof are subject to the penalties provided in the Zoning Ordinance
and all other remedies and penalties provided by the statute, administrative
rule, and common law.
   (B)   In addition to, and not in lieu of, the maintenance of other actions
for any violation of this chapter, the Village Attorney may maintain an action
in any court of general equitable jurisdiction to prevent, restrain, or enjoin
any violation hereto; if the village is successful, the offending party shall
be liable for all the village’s legal fees in such enforcement.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 INFRASTRUCTURE FUND.
   (A)   To defray the burden such events put on the village infrastructure, a
surcharge per ticket shall be collected and paid over to the village’s General
Fund for each ticket sold and shall be due 60 days after the conclusion of the
event. The amount of the surcharge shall be set by the Village Board.
   (B)   (1)   The surcharge amount to be paid to the village’s General Fund
must be accompanied by supporting documents to confirm the amount of tickets
sold and the amount of overall attendance. The Village Board reserves the right
to conduct an independent audit of the amount of tickets sold and overall
attendance.
      (2)   If the independent audit reveals that the Village Board is entitled
to a larger amount than what the organizer submitted to the Village Board, the
village shall be entitled to the difference between the amount that was
submitted by the organizer and the amount revealed by the independent audit,
plus the cost of the independent audit, and may unilaterally terminate any
future mass gatherings previously applied for by the applicant and approved by
the village.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In this section, the term VIOLATION shall mean doing any act, or
allowing an employee, agent, or attendee to do any act, that is prohibited or
made or declared unlawful, an offense, or a violation of state or federal law,
this code of ordinances, or the mass gathering application or permit.
      (1)   If a violation occurs, the village shall have the unilateral
ability to issue a civil infraction ticket, revoke any mass gathering permit,
and impose a fine of not more than $1,000, at the village’s sole discretion. If
the violation involves music or noise that is not otherwise permitted by this
chapter and/or mass gathering application and permit, the village shall have
the unilateral ability to issue a civil infraction ticket, revoke any mass
gathering permit, and impose a fine of not more than $5,000 per day, at the
village’s sole discretion.
      (2)   Any violation, including a violation described above, shall give
the village the unilateral ability to immediately terminate the applicant’s
permit, at the sole discretion of the village.
   (B)   Unless otherwise stated, any organizer violating this chapter is
punishable, upon conviction, by a civil infraction fine of not more than $500
per incident, in addition to any other available remedies.
   (C)   For violation of the time limit as set forth in §
96.05(C)(4) for amplified sound, the penalty shall be a fine of not more than
$100 for each increment of 15 minutes said violation continues.
   (D)   If the condition or violation described in §
96.06 continues thereafter, the same shall constitute a civil infraction
subject to a $500 fine for each day said condition/violation continues.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   JUNK YARDS
      
112.   SALES; GARAGE, YARD, RUMMAGE, AND THE LIKE
      
113.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirement
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Exhibition of identification
   
110.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
110.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.12   Prohibited solicitation
   
110.13   Limits on number of applicants per property
   
110.14   Violations
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person not an itinerant merchant who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place, by any means, carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells, or offers goods for
sale, from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels, by any means, from place to place,
taking, or attempting to take, orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the
future or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a
SOLICITOR is not a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor
shall obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village. A
copy of the license shall be attached to any structure utilized by the
applicant, if any.
      (2)   If no structure is utilized, a copy of the license shall be kept on
the applicant at all times, and shall be subject to the immediate inspection of
the village upon demand.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Village Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire, without action by
the village or any other party, 30 days after the date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. passed 5-22-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by all partners, if a partnership, or by the
president, if a corporation.
      (1)   The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant:
            1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
            2.   The local address of such individual;
            3.   The permanent address of such individual; and
            4.   The capacity in which such individual will act.
         (b)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (c)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on the applicant’s business;
         (d)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered:
            1.   If goods, their invoice value, and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
            2.   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
         (e)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business; and
         (f)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified
within division (A)(1)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(1)(b)
above, has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor, and, if so, the nature
of each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
      (2)   Any person operating under this chapter must remain located and
operate in a location where the clear view of the motorists and pedestrians
using the roads and sidewalks is not impaired in any manner, and in a location
that does not negatively impact the general health, safety, and welfare of any
motorist or pedestrian.
      (3)   Applicants and property owners may be required to post a fee and/or
bond in an amount set, from time to time, by the Village Council. The fee and/
or bond may or may not be refunded, as determined by the village, from time to
time.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a true and accurate copy of the food handler’s license issued by the state.
(Prior Code, § see 110.03) (Ord. passed 5-22-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of the following
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked
by the Village Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.06. Notice and hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint, and the time and place of the
hearing.
      (2)   Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last
known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   Any person licensed under this chapter shall comply in every other
respect with the ordinances of the village and the statutes of the state with
respect to the conduct of such person’s business, and the use, operation,
parking, and standing of his or her vehicles, if any.
(Prior Code, § see 110.05) (Ord. passed 5-22-2018)
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way so as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general
welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.04 or
110.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Council. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Village Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Village Council shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
110.05.
   (B)   The order of the Village Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “licensed
peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to his, her, or their respective
residences.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
§ 110.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon, or near, the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, and containing the
applicable words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third of an inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Police Chief to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 110.10)
§ 110.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon, or near, any door,
or create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engaging in solicitation in defiance of the notice
exhibited at the residence, in accordance with the provisions of §
110.10.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF APPLICANTS PER PROPERTY.
   At no given time may any property owner allow or authorize more than two
applicants to operate on any single parcel of property under this chapter. For
the purposes of this chapter, a SINGLE PARCEL OF PROPERTY is defined as all
adjoining parcels of property with any common owners without any regard to tax
assessment or other records.
(Ord. passed 5-22-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.14 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a municipal
civil infraction punishable by immediate suspension or revocation of the
license issued pursuant to this chapter and punishable by civil fine to be set
by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 5-22-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: JUNK YARDS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Application for license; fee
   
111.04   Application; information required
   
111.05   Rules and regulations
   
111.06   Grant of license; term; refusal and re-application
   
111.07   Fence requirement
   
111.08   Consideration of application; vote
   
111.09   Revocation; notification
   
111.10   Supplementary to other ordinances; statutes
Cross-reference:
Signage restrictions and requirements, see §§
154.330 through
154.348
Wall and fence zoning requirements, see §
154.072
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation, or copartnership shall hereafter operate or
own a junk yard or place for the dismantling, wrecking, and disposing of the
junk and/or refuse material of automobiles within the village without first
obtaining a license therefor from the Village Council upon written application
to the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person, firm, corporation, or co-partnership whose business
is that of purchasing, selling, exchanging, or receiving secondhand articles of
any kind (steel, aluminum, copper, grass, lead pipe, tools, scrap metal, or
plastics of any kind or description), or parts of machinery, and who keeps,
stores, or deals in such articles in a yard, enclosure, building, or structure,
or part of a building or structure, within the village.
   JUNK YARD. A junk dealer’s place of business; any single enclosure of
property used for the purposes described within the definition of junk dealer,
above; and if any junk dealer shall have more than one such JUNK YARD within
the village, each shall be deemed a JUNK YARD in and of itself, and shall be
subject as a separate JUNK YARD to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or co-partnership desiring to own or operate
a junk yard, as hereinabove defined, or carry on such a business within the
village, shall make written application for a license to the Village Council,
and shall enclose therewith the appropriate application fee, as set forth by
the Village Council by resolution, for each junk yard, and that the applicant
proposes to own or operate within the village, and the written application
shall be signed by the applicant and delivered or mailed to the Village Clerk,
who shall bring the application to the attention of the Village Council at its
next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. 44, passed 3-12-2001)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Applications so made shall contain the following information:
   (A)   If the applicant is an individual, his or her application shall
contain his or her full name and address and the name under which he or she
does, or proposes to do, business, together with the address of his or her
principal place of business;
   (B)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain the
name of the corporation, its principal place of business, the full name and
address of its resident agent who is authorized to receive service of process,
and the state in which the corporation was formed;
   (C)   If the applicant is a co-partnership or firm, the application shall
contain the full names and addresses of all persons comprising the firm or co-
partnership or having an interest therein, and the address of the co-
partnership’s or firm’s principal place of business;
   (D)   Designate the exact location and size of the place, or places, where
the applicant proposes to operate the junk yard, or yards;
   (E)   Designate the types and kinds of materials that the applicant proposes
to handle;
   (F)   Designate the kinds and types of machinery and equipment that will be
used in connection with the handling or dismantling of the materials;
   (G)   Designate the average number of persons to be employed in connection
with the operation thereof;
   (H)   Designate the number of buildings or structures, if any, that will be
constructed and/or used upon, and in connection with the operation of, the junk
yard, together with a description of the buildings or structures that will be
so used; and
   (I)   (a)   A statement as to whether or not a fence of the type hereinafter
specified has been constructed around the premises where the applicant proposes
to operate; but
      (b)   However, that if the applicant has not, at the time of making
application, constructed such a fence and desires to detain the construction
until after the Village Council has considered and passed upon the application
in all other aspects, he or she may so state in his or her application and the
Village Council may, in its discretion, pass favorably upon the application and
notify the applicant upon the completion of a fence meeting the requirements
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 111.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Licensees shall be governed according to the following standards, rules, and
regulations.
   (A)   The licensee shall post, in a conspicuous place on the premises, the
license issued hereunder.
   (B)   The licensee shall keep books of record open for inspection by any
member of the village’s police force or County Sheriff’s Department or
constable, in which shall be written in the English language at the time of the
purchase or exchange of any junk dealt with by the licensee, or at the time any
such junk is brought upon the licensee’s premises from any other place, a
description thereof, the name of the party, or parties, from whom the same was
purchased and/or received, and the day when the purchase or exchange was made.
   (C)   No licensee, nor his or her agent, servant, or employee, shall
purchase or receive by sale, barter, exchange, or otherwise, any article
mentioned in this chapter from any person between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 p.m., nor at any time from any person who at the time is intoxicated, or
who is a known habitual drunkard, nor from any person known by the licensee, or
his or her agent or servant, to be a thief or an associate of thieves or
receiver of stolen property, or from any person he or she has reason to suspect
of being such.
   (D)   Any licensee shall, at least once each month, prepare and mail to the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Safety at East Lansing a sworn
statement of all purchases of junk and/or refuse material made by the licensee,
and a copy thereof shall be delivered or mailed to the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 GRANT OF LICENSE; TERM; REFUSAL AND RE-APPLICATION.
   The Village Council may, in its discretion, for just cause, refuse to grant
the license and any license granted under the terms hereof shall run for a
period of one year from and after the date of issuance, and at the expiration
of the term, the licensee shall make another application for a license so to
operate for the next year, which application shall contain all of the
information specified in §
111.04 above, and shall be accompanied by the annual license fee of $25 for
each junk yard intended to be operated by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 111.07 FENCE REQUIREMENT.
   Any and all junk yards, as defined herein, or place where any applicant for
a license proposes to operate or own such a junk yard shall, as a prerequisite
to the issuance of a license, be fully concealed from public view by a
substantial and tight fence at least six feet in height and constructed of
boards or other suitable and flat-surfaced material.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 111.08 CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION; VOTE.
   (A)   At its next regular meeting after the Village Clerk has received an
application for a junk yard license, the Village Council shall give
consideration to the application, and at the meeting, the Village Council
shall, with reference to the application, vote upon one of the following
issues:
      (1)   Adjournment of final determination on the application to another
regular meeting of the Village Council; provided however, that final
determination shall not be adjourned more than twice successively after the
first meeting at which the application was brought to the attention of the
Council, and, if the Village Council shall adjourn its final determination two
times successively, it shall, on the last regular meeting to which the matter
has been adjourned, vote upon approval or disapproval of the application
according to the provisions of division (A)(2) below; or
      (2)   Approval of the application, if the Village Council shall approve
the application by a majority vote of the quorum, the Village Clerk shall
prepare and mail to the applicant, within one week from, and after, the regular
meeting, a certificate, which shall contain the following information in
appropriate form:
         (a)   Village junk yard license;
         (b)   Full name and address of the licensee; date of issuance of the
license, which shall be the date of the regular meeting of the Village Council
at which the application was approved;
         (c)   Date of expiration of license, which shall be one year from, and
after, the date of issuance; and
         (d)   Signature of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   And, if the majority of the quorum shall vote nay on the issue of the
application, then the application shall be deemed disapproved and the license
refused, and, if the applicant or his or her agent shall not have been present
at the village meeting to hear the outcome of the vote, then, and in that
event, the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant, by letter, that the
application was disapproved and the license refused, and the applicant’s
license fee shall be refunded to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 111.09 REVOCATION; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Village Council, by affirmative vote of the majority of the quorum
at any regular meeting, may revoke any license issued under the terms hereof,
for violation by the licensee or his or her agents, servants, or employees of
the rules, regulations, and conditions hereinabove set forth, and any person,
firm, corporation, or co-partnership who continues to operate or maintain a
junk yard, as hereinabove defined, after revocation of the license by the
Village Council shall be subject to the penal provisions hereof.
   (B)   Provided, however, that before the Village Council may revoke any such
license, it shall notify the licensee by registered mail, return receipt
requested, of its intention to revoke the license, and of a time, place, and
date certain, not less than one week, nor more than two weeks, from the date of
mailing the notice, at which time at least three members of the Village Council
shall, together, hear any objections that licensee may have to offer in
opposition to the revocation of his or her license.
   (C)   The Village Council, after hearing the objections, may then, in its
discretion, and by majority vote of the quorum, revoke the license, and the
determination of the Village Council, together with its reasons for its
determination, shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting. In cases of
revocation, the licensee shall forfeit his or her license fee.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 SUPPLEMENTARY TO OTHER ORDINANCES; STATUTES.
   This chapter shall not be construed as repealing any ordinance now in
effect, or hereafter made effective, relating to rubbish, litter, garbage,
refuse, trash, junk, inoperable motor vehicles, or parked or stored
automobiles, but shall be construed as supplementary to any such ordinance, as
well as any statute of the state relating thereto.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 23, passed 3-18-1968)
CHAPTER 112: SALES; GARAGE, YARD, RUMMAGE, AND THE LIKE
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   License fee
   
112.05   Conditions of license
   
112.06   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
Permitted sale signage, see §
154.344
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the term, frequency, and manner
of personal property sales within the residential areas of the village so that
the residential environment of those areas is not disturbed or disrupted.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 29, passed 7-18-1978)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLIDAY. New Years’ Day, Good Friday, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, or other entity.
   SALE, GARAGE SALE, YARD SALE, BASEMENT SALE and RUMMAGE SALE, including any
similar terms such as ATTIC SALE, LAWN SALE, FLEA-MARKET SALE, AND THE LIKE.
Any casual sale of tangible personal property, whether used, secondhand,
damaged, or discarded from any residential premises, whether or not located in
a residential district, as described by the Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 29, passed 7-18-1978)
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   No person shall conduct, or cause to be conducted, any sale as defined by §
112.02 without first obtaining a license authorizing the sale from the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 29, passed 7-18-1978)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEE.
   A fee shall be set by the Village Council by resolution for the issuance of
each license to conduct sales as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 29, passed 7-18-1978; Ord. 44, passed 3-12-2001)
§ 112.05 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The license shall be valid for no longer than two consecutive days;
      (2)   The sale shall be conducted only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m.;
      (3)   No sale shall be conducted on any Sunday or holiday;
      (4)   No more than two sales shall be permitted on any parcel of land
located within the village during any 12-month period; provided further, that
the sales shall be a minimum if 21 days apart;
      (5)   A person shall be entitled to receive only one license during any
12-month period;
      (6)   No public street or right-of-way shall be used for the conduct or
advertisement of the sale; and
      (7)   Any sign advertising the sale shall not be in excess of six square
feet and shall not be illuminated in any manner whatsoever, except incidentally
by street lights or house lights.
   (B)   Any violation of the conditions listed under this section shall be a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 29, passed 7-18-1978; Ord. 29A, passed 10-17-2006)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following persons or sales:
   (A)   Persons selling personal property pursuant to an order or process of a
court of competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons selling, or advertising for sale, an item, or items, of
personal property which are specifically named or described in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed five in number; and
   (C)   Sales conducted by, and for the benefit of, religious, educational,
scientific, charitable, and any other organizations which qualify as being
exempt from federal income tax, as defined by I.R.C. § 501(c) of 1954, as
amended.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 29, passed 7-18-1978)
CHAPTER 113: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Marijuana establishments prohibited
   
113.02   Scope
   
113.03   Consistency and repeal
   
113.04   Effective date
§ 113.01 MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to the State Regulation and Taxation of Marijuana Act, § 6.1, the
village elects to prohibit marijuana establishments within its boundaries.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall have the regulatory effect to prohibit marijuana
establishments in all geographic areas of the village to the fullest extent
allowed by law.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 113.03 CONSISTENCY AND REPEAL.
   (A)   All existing ordinances or parts of ordinances are to be interpreted
as consistent with this chapter and with state law. Any ordinances or parts of
an ordinance in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter are hereby
repealed.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter results in any prohibitions otherwise allowed
under the State Regulation and Taxation of Marijuana Act, as adopted, or the
State Medical Marijuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 113.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter requires that it be effective as is necessary to regulate
persons and property for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and welfare under the authority of and adopted pursuant to Public Act 246 of
1945, Township Ordinances, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.181 et seq. This chapter shall
become effective the day after its publication as authorized by law.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
      
131.   MINORS; CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Acts prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOITERING. The act of standing or idling in, or about, any street, sidewalk,
highway, alley, park, or other place open to the general public, including any
area designated for the parking of motor vehicles, so as to hinder or impede,
or tend to hinder or impede, the passage of pedestrians or vehicles.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, or any place of
business or assembly open to, or frequented by, the public, or any place which
is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 13a, passed 5-17-1988)
§ 130.02 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Violations. No person shall:
      (1)   Individually, or with others, stand, loiter, stroll, or collect in
a group or crowd for any unlawful, improper, or mischievous purpose or
diversion to the annoyance, interference, or disturbance of others in any place
in the village, public or private;
      (2)   Obstruct the entrance of any business establishment (without doing
so for some lawful purpose) without the express consent of the owner, lessee,
managing agent, or person in control or charge of the building;
      (3)   Station themselves upon sidewalks, public streets, or in other
public places in such a manner so as to hinder pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
without the express consent of the owner, lessee, managing agent, person,
entity, or municipality in charge of those items;
      (4)   Prowl about the private premises of any person or entity in the
nighttime without permission of the owner of the premises;
      (5)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral, or obscene conduct in
any public place, such as, but not limited to: improperly, lewdly, or
wrongfully accosting; ogling; insulting; annoying; following; pursuing;
touching; or by gesturing, movement of body, or otherwise molesting, any person
in a public place;
      (6)   Engage in any disturbance, fight, or quarrel in any public place;
      (7)   Discharge any firearm, BB gun, air rifle, air pistol, or bow and
arrow (target, compound, or cross bow) within the village. There shall be no
hunting of any type, or possession of any uncased bow of any type, or firearm
outside of a residence or business establishment within the village limits;
      (8)   Disturb any service of worship or any other assembly gathered for a
lawful purpose; or
      (9)   Wander about and beg in the streets or from house to house, or sit,
stand, or take a position in any place and beg from passers-by, either by
words, the exhibiting of a sign, or by gestures.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Village Police Department is authorized to enforce the
provisions of division (A)(7) above, and to grant exemptions and impose
conditions to any exemption which it deems appropriate upon request of a
property owner based upon the following safety criteria:
         (a)   The distance between the area to be used as a shooting range and
other dwellings, structures, public gathering places, private gathering places,
and other such safety considerations;
         (b)   The type of firearm, BB gun, air rifle, air pistol, bow and
arrow, or other implement proposed to be discharged; and
         (c)   Any other consideration which the Village Police Department
considers appropriate and pertinent to the public health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the village.
      (2)   The enforcement duties authorized by this division (A)(7) above
shall include, among others, the following: investigation of ordinance
violations; serving notices of violations; serving appearance tickets as
authorized under Public Act 175 of 1927, Ch. 4, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.1 et
seq., as amended, and Public Act 366 of 1984, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9c and
764.9f; appearance in court or other judicial proceedings to assist in the
prosecution of ordinance violators; and the ordinance enforcement duties as
made to be designated, from time to time, by the Village President not
inconsistent with this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 13a, passed 5-17-1988; Ord. 41, passed 6-18-1998;
Ord. 42, passed 7-21-1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this chapter (with
the exception of §
130.02(A)(7)) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more
than $500, or imprisonment for a period not more than 90 days, or both, in the
discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 130.99)
   (B)   Effective 30 days after publication of §
130.02(A)(7), any person, firm, or corporation who violates, or fails to comply
with, any provisions of §
130.02(A)(7) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than $200, or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30
days, or both, in the discretion of the court. Each day that the violation
continues is a separate violation for purposes of the enforcement of §
130.02(A)(7).
(Prior Code, § 130.02)
(Ord. 13a, passed 5-17-1988; Ord. 41, passed 6-18-1998; Ord. 42, passed 7-21-
1998)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew hours
   
131.02   Parental responsibility
   
131.03   Knowledge of offense
   
131.04   Enforcement
§ 131.01 CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 17 years to
loiter, wander, stroll, or play in, or upon, public streets, highways, alleys,
parks, playgrounds, public places, places of amusement, vacant lots, or other
unsupervised places in the village between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. official village time on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
of each week, and between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. official
village time on Friday and Saturday of each week.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to, or returning home
from, an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor, if the neighbor did not complain to the
Village Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to,
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Each violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 28, passed 10-19-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other person having the
legal care and custody of a minor under the age of 17 years to permit the minor
to loiter, wander, stroll, or play in, or upon, the public streets, highways,
alleys, parks, playgrounds, public places, places of amusement, vacant lots, or
other unsupervised places in the village between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m. official village time on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday of each week, and between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
official village time on Friday and Saturday of each week; providing, however,
that the provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his
or her parent, guardian, or other person of majority age having the legal care
and custody of the minor, or when the minor is actually engaged upon an
emergency errand, or actually engaged in legal business directed by his or her
parent, guardian, or other person having the legal care and custody of the
minor, or when the minor is engaged in a useful occupation by virtue of a work
permit, or is going to, or returning home from, the work, by the shortest
route. Each violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 28, passed 10-19-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 KNOWLEDGE OF OFFENSE.
   It shall not constitute a defense hereto that the parent, guardian, or other
person having legal care and custody of a minor who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter did not have knowledge of the presence of the minor
in and upon any of the streets, alleys, public places, vacant lots, or other
unsupervised places prohibited in §
131.01.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. 28, passed 10-19-1976)
§ 131.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever any child under the age of 17 years is arrested, with or without a
warrant, for the alleged violation of any of the provisions of §
131.01, the child shall be taken immediately before the Juvenile Division of
the Probate Court of the county, and the officer making the arrest shall
immediately make and file, or cause to be made and filed, a petition against
the child, as required by state statute.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) (Ord. 28, passed 10-19-1976)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND DIVISION
      
151.   HOUSE TRAILERS; PARKS; MOTOR HOMES
      
152.   STRUCTURES, BUILDING, AND MOVING
      
153.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose and scope
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Prior approval requirement for land divisions
   
150.05   Application for land division approval
   
150.06   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval
   
150.07   Standards for approval of land divisions; fees
   
150.08   Allowance for approval of other land divisions
   
150.09   Consequences of noncompliance with the land division approval
requirements
   
150.10   Repeal
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Rothbury
Land Division Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of the Land
Division Act, being Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act (“Act”),
to prevent the creation of parcels of property and access easements which do
not comply with applicable ordinances, zoning regulations, and the Act; to
minimize potential boundary disputes; to monitor the creation of new parcels
and easements; to prevent illegal land divisions and to ensure that newly-
created parcels are not landlocked; to prevent the creation of unusable lots
due to noncompliance with the village’s Zoning Ordinance or other ordinances;
to assure orderly development of the community; and to otherwise provide for
the health, safety, and welfare of the residents and property owners of the
village by establishing reasonable standards for prior review and approval of
land divisions within the village.
   (B)   Approval of any land division pursuant to this chapter shall not
provide, constitute, infer, or imply use or zoning approval of any such
division or resulting parcels, nor assure or imply buildability. The use of
land must still comply with the Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable
ordinances, laws, or regulations, and it remains the responsibility of the
property owner to ensure compliance.
   (C)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or, in
any other way, impair or interfere with, provisions of the Zoning Ordinance or
of other laws or ordinances (except as otherwise expressly stated in §
150.10) or of any private restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed,
or other private agreement; provided, however, that where any provision of this
chapter imposes more stringent requirements, regulations, restrictions, or
limitations upon the division or use of land, easements, or buildings than are
imposed or required by the provisions of any restrictions or any other law or
ordinance, or any of the rules, regulations, or permits, then the provisions of
this chapter shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Any words or terms used in this chapter which are not defined in this
section or other provisions of this chapter shall be defined according to their
common or standard definition, except that terms defined in the Act shall have
the same meaning as used in the Act when used in this chapter, unless otherwise
defined by this chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACCESSIBLE. In reference to a parcel, when the parcel meets one or both of
the following requirements:
      (1)   The parcel has an area where a driveway provides vehicular access
to an existing road or street and meets all applicable location standards of
the State Transportation Department or County Road Commission under Public Act
200 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 247.321 to 247.329, and of the village, or has
an area where a driveway can provide vehicular access to an existing road or
street and meet all the applicable location standards; and/or
      (2)   The parcel is served by an existing easement that provides
vehicular access to an existing road or street and that meets all applicable
location standards of the State Transportation Department or County Road
Commission under Public Act 200 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 247.321 to 247.329,
and of the village, or can be served by a proposed easement that will provide
vehicular access to an existing road or street and that will meet all the
applicable location standards.
   ACT. Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., as amended
(including, but not limited to, Public Act 591 of 1996), being the Land
Division Act.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
estate, entity, governmental unit, or combination of any of them, which holds
an ownership interest in land, whether recorded or not; a person or entity
purchasing land involved in the land division, or his or her agents.
   AREA. For the purposes of §§ 105(b) and 109(1)(d) of the Act, any size,
width, frontage, dimension, yard, or space requirements of the village’s Zoning
Ordinance.
   COUNTY. Oceana County, Michigan.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any parcel or lot on which exists, or which is intended
for, building development other than the following:
      (1)   Agricultural use involving the production of plants and animals
useful to humans, including forages and sod crops; grains, feed crops, and
field crops; dairy and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock,
including breeding and grazing of cattle, swine, and similar animals; berries;
herbs; flowers; seeds; grasses; nursery stock; fruits; vegetables; Christmas
trees; and other similar uses and activities; or
      (2)   Forestry use involving the planting, management, or harvesting of
timber.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results
in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres, or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the Act. DIVIDED or DIVISION
does not include a property transfer between two or more adjacent parcels if
the property taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any
resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the parcel
conforms to the requirements of the Act, or the requirements of all applicable
village ordinances.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent; provided
that all resulting parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and utilities
from existing public roads through existing adequate roads or easements, or
through areas owned by the owner of the parcel that can provide that access.
For a property transfer between two or more adjacent parcels, if the property
taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel, any resulting parcel
shall not be considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the
requirements of the Act or the requirements of all applicable village
ordinances.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Village Council.
   LOT or PARCEL. LOT and PARCEL are used interchangeably.
   PARENT PARCEL or PARENT TRACT. A parcel or tract respectively, lawfully in
existence on March 31, 1997.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village of Rothbury Planning Commission (or other
entity or official as designated by the Village Council to carry out the duties
of the Planning Commission as provided by this chapter).
   TRACT. Two or more parcels that share a common property line and are under
the same ownership.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Rothbury, Oceana County, Michigan.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village of Rothbury Village Council.
   WIDTH. For the purposes of §§ 105(b) and 109(1)(c) of the Act, the WIDTH and
frontage requirements of the village’s Zoning Ordinance.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Village of Rothbury Zoning Ordinance, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Land in the village shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Planning Commission in accordance with this chapter and the
Act; provided that the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
      (1)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant
to the Act;
      (2)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with
the Act;
      (3)   An exempt split, as defined in this chapter, or other partitioning
or splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not
accessible and the parcel was in existence on March 31, 1997, or resulted from
exempt splitting under the Act;
      (4)   Easements;
      (5)   A splitting of property created as a result of acquisition of a
portion of a parcel through eminent domain or a voluntary conveyance to an
entity with eminent domain powers;
      (6)   A splitting of property created as a result of a court order
(except where the intent is to avoid application of the Act);
      (7)   A splitting of property created by a condominium project;
      (8)   Lease of residential apartments or commercial space in a shopping
center; provided the lease does not include land;
      (9)   Leases of less than one year;
      (10)   Options to buy property;
      (11)   Mortgage or mortgage foreclosures;
      (12)   Condemnations; and
      (13)   Sheriff sales.
   (B)   Although the exemptions listed in division (A) above are exempt from
prior review and approval under this chapter, other village ordinances may
apply and may require the village’s prior review and approval.
   (C)   If a proposed land division involves the division of one or more
existing platted lots or the reconfiguration or adjustment of a boundary line
of an existing platted lot, the village’s Subdivision Ordinance shall be
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Planning Commission
for review and approval of a proposed land division before making any division:
   (A)   A completed village application form, together with all required
supporting materials;
   (B)   Signature on the application by the fee title owner of the property;
   (C)   A tentative parcel map. The tentative parcel map must be drawn to
scale; must include an adequate and accurate legal description of each proposed
division; must show the area, parcel boundary lines and dimensions, public
utility easements, and accessibility of each division from existing or proposed
public roads for automobile traffic and public utilities; and must show that
all other requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the Act are met;
   (D)   Other proof that all standards of the Act, this chapter, and other
applicable ordinances and laws have been met;
   (E)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part. This must be sufficient to establish
the parcel to be divided was lawfully in existence as of March 31, 1997. The
village may require that the applicant provide a title search from a title
insurance company if it is reasonably necessary to show that previous land
divisions do not preclude the proposed land division(s);
   (F)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer;
   (G)   Proof that all due and payable property taxes or installments of
special assessments pertaining to the land proposed to be divided are (or will
be) paid in full;
   (H)   Unless a division creates a parcel which is acknowledged and declared
to be “not buildable” under §
150.08, all divisions shall result in “buildable” parcels containing sufficient
“buildable” area outside of non-developable land area, as defined by the
village’s Subdivision Ordinance, and with sufficient area to comply with all
required setback provisions, minimum floor areas, off-street parking spaces,
on-site sewage disposal and water well locations (where public water and sewer
service is not available), and maximum allowed area coverage of buildings and
structures on the site; and
   (I)   The full fee in an amount as may, from time to time, be established by
resolution of the Village Council for land division reviews pursuant to this
chapter to cover the costs of review of the application and administration of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt of a complete land division application package
from an applicant, the Planning Commission shall approve, approve with
reasonable conditions to assure compliance with applicable ordinances and the
protection of public health, safety, and welfare, or disapprove the land
division applied for. The Planning Commission’s decision to approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove the land division shall be made within 45 days
after receipt of the complete application package conforming to this chapter’s
requirements (including any and all required zoning approvals).
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall promptly notify the applicant, in
writing, of the decision(s) and the reasons for any denial. If the application
package does not conform to the requirements of this chapter and the Act, the
Planning Commission shall return the application to the applicant for
completion in accordance with this chapter and the Act.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Planning
Commission may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
Village Council, which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote
at its next regular meeting.
   (C)   Land division approvals shall be valid only for a period of 60 days
from the date of approval by the village. If the deeds or land contracts for
the lots proposed by the land division are not properly recorded and accepted
by the County Register of Deeds (with a copy to the Planning Commission) within
this time period, the land division approval shall be considered null and void,
and a new application must thereafter be submitted.
      (1)   The 60-day time limit may be extended for an additional 60 days by
the Planning Commission, or for a longer period by the Village Council, as
determined appropriate by the Planning Commission or Village Council, as
applicable.
      (2)   If an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance or other village ordinance
becomes effective prior to the land division being recorded, and the amendment
applies to any of the resulting parcels in a way which would make the proposed
lot or lots violate the Zoning Ordinance or other village ordinance, the land
division approval shall be null and void, even if the 60-day time limit (or any
extension thereof) has not expired.
   (D)   Any notice of approval for a resulting parcel of less than one acre in
size shall contain a statement that the village is not liable if a building
permit is not issued for the parcel for the reason that the parcel fails to
satisfy the requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the Act, including approval of
on-site water supply and on-site sewage disposal under the standards set forth
in § 105(g) of the Act.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall maintain an official record of all land
division applications, including denied, approved, unrecorded and accomplished
land divisions.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS; FEES.
   (A)   A proposed land division shall be approved only if all of the
following criteria are met:
      (1)   The proposed land division(s) must comply with all requirements of
this chapter and the Act;
      (2)   Each parcel (including the remainder of the parent parcel or parent
tract) shall have an adequate and accurate legal description and shall be shown
on the survey or parcel map, drawn to scale, along with the area of each
parcel, parcel lines, dimensions, setbacks, public utility easements, rights-
of-way, accessibility, and any other information that is necessary to determine
compliance with the criteria for approval;
      (3)   All of the parcels to be created by the proposed land division(s)
must fully comply with the applicable lot (parcel) width, access, setback,
yard, and area requirements of the Zoning Ordinance (unless a variance from the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance is first obtained), Subdivision Ordinance,
and other applicable village laws and regulations;
      (4)   The ratio of depth to width of any resulting parcel must not exceed
a ratio of four-to-one, as provided by § 109(1)(b) of the Act, unless otherwise
provided by the Zoning Ordinance, or a variance from the requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance is first obtained; provided that the depth to width
requirements of this section do not apply to the remainder of the parent parcel
or parent tract retained by the proprietor;
      (5)   Each resulting parcel must comply with the minimum parcel width
requirements, maintained to the minimum lot depth, for the zoning district in
which it is located, unless a variance from the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance is first obtained;
      (6)   Each resulting parcel must comply with the minimum parcel area
requirements for the zoning district in which it is located, unless a variance
from the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance is first obtained;
      (7)   Each resulting parcel must be accessible as provided by this
chapter and by the Act;
      (8)   The division meets the requirements of § 108 of the Act; and
      (9)   Each resulting parcel that is a development site has adequate
easements for public utilities from the parcel to existing public utility
facilities.
   (B)   The Village Council may establish reasonable fees for review and
approval of land divisions by the village. Additionally, the village may
require the applicant to reimburse the village for fees and costs incurred by
the Village Attorney and/or Village Engineer in reviewing the proposed land
division. No land division approval or permit shall be effective until all such
fees and reimbursements have been paid to the village in full.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.08 ALLOWANCE FOR APPROVAL OF OTHER LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding disqualification from approval pursuant to this
chapter, a proposed land division which does not fully comply with the
applicable lot, setback, accessibility, and area requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance or this chapter may be approved under the following circumstances:
      (1)   (a)   Where the applicant executes and records an affidavit or
permanent deed restriction with the County Register of Deeds, in a form
acceptable to the village, designating the parcel as “not buildable” and also
not usable for anything other than agricultural or passive uses, which
restrictions shall be enforceable by the village;
         (b)   Any such parcel shall also be designated as “not buildable” in
the village records, and shall not thereafter be the subject of a request to
the Zoning Board of Appeals for variance relief from the applicable lot and/or
area requirements (any hardship or practical difficulty shall be deemed “self-
created”), and shall not be used except for agricultural or passive uses;
      (2)   Where, in circumstances not covered by this section, the village
has previously granted a variance from the lot, yard, ratio, frontage, or area
requirements with which the parcel failed to comply; and
      (3)   Where the proposed land division involves only the minor adjustment
of a common boundary line or involves a conveyance between adjoining properties
which does not result in either parcel violating this chapter, any other
village ordinance, or the Act.
   (B)   The Village Council may act upon all questions that arise in the
administration of this chapter:
      (1)   It may hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement or determination made by an official charged with enforcement of
this chapter. An appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved by any action
under this chapter;
      (2)   It may grant variances to this chapter where the literal
enforcement of its requirements would involve practical difficulties or cause
undue hardship because of exceptional physical constraints or conditions of the
land, building, or structure, or the use or development of the property
immediately adjoining the property in question. In granting a variance, the
Village Council shall ensure that the spirit of this chapter is observed,
public safety secured, and substantial justice done;
      (3)   The Village Council may grant variances only upon finding, from
reasonable evidence, that the following facts and conditions exist:
         (a)   There are exceptional or extraordinary conditions applying to
the property that do not apply generally to other properties in the area or
general vicinity, and are not the result of actions of the applicant;
         (b)   Such a variance is necessary for preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right similar to that possessed by other properties in the
general vicinity. The possibility of increased financial return shall not be
deemed sufficient to warrant a variance;
         (c)   Authorizing a variance will not be a substantial detriment to
adjacent property and will not materially impair the intent and purpose of this
chapter or the public interest; and/or
         (d)   The condition or situation affecting the property is not so
general or recurrent as to make reasonably practical the formulation of a
general regulation.
      (4)   The determination by the Village Council of any appeal or variance
shall be stated in the public record. The Village Council may adopt special
rules of procedure for considering variances and appeals under this chapter,
which at a minimum shall include a ten-day notice before any action is taken.
This notice shall be sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the parent
parcel and published in a newspaper circulating within the village.
         (a)   A copy of the notice shall go to the applicant and the
appellant. The notice shall give the purpose, date, and time of the Village
Council meeting at which the action will be considered.
         (b)   The Village Council may impose conditions on the granting of a
variance or an appeal to ensure that the public services and facilities will be
capable of accommodating the proposed use; to protect the natural environment
and conserve natural resources; to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of
land; and to promote the use of the land in a socially and economically
desirable manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.09 CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE LAND DIVISION APPROVAL
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any parcel or easement created in violation of or noncompliance with
this chapter shall not be eligible for any building permit or zoning approvals.
Furthermore, no parcel or lot created in violation of this chapter or the Act
shall be used for any purpose whatsoever, nor shall the land division be
recognized.
   (B)   In addition, a violation of this chapter shall also subject the
violator to the penalties and enforcement actions set forth in §
150.99, and as may otherwise be provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 150.09) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 REPEAL.
   All other ordinances, or parts of ordinances, in conflict with this chapter
are hereby repealed, except that this chapter shall not be construed to repeal
any provision in the Zoning Ordinance, the village’s Subdivision Ordinance, or
the village’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infractions.
      (1)   Except as provided by division (B) below, and notwithstanding any
other provision of the village’s laws, ordinances, and regulations to the
contrary, a person who violates any provision of this chapter is responsible
for a municipal civil infraction, subject to a civil fine of not less than
$100, plus costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions for each infraction.
      (2)   Increased fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. As used in this
section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision of this chapter
committed by a person within any two-year period, and for which the person
admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible. The increased fine
for a repeat offense under this chapter shall be as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $500, plus costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions for each
infraction; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $1,000, plus costs, damages,
expenses, and other sanctions for each infraction.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the village’s laws,
ordinances, and regulations to the contrary, the following persons are
designated as the authorized village officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations for violations of this chapter: the Village President, any
other village representative designated by the Village President or the Village
Council, and any police officer.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, the requirements and
procedures for commencing municipal civil infraction actions; issuance and
service of municipal civil infraction citations; determination and collection
of court-ordered fines, costs, and expenses; appearances and payment of fines
and costs; failure to answer, appear, or pay fines; disposition of fines,
costs, and expenses paid; and other matters regarding municipal civil
infractions shall be as set forth in the village’s municipal civil infraction
provisions in other village ordinances, as applicable, and Public Act 236 of
1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through 600.9948, as amended.
   (B)   Criminal penalties; imprisonment.
      (1)   Any person who sells, or agrees to sell, any lot, piece, or parcel
of land without first having recorded a plat thereof, when required by this
chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for a period of not more
than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the
court.
      (2)   Agreement to sell under this section does not include an option to
buy extended from the seller for a money consideration to the prospective
buyer.
   (C)   Nuisance. The creation of a division of land in violation of this
chapter is hereby determined to be detrimental to the health, safety, and
general welfare of the residents, property owners, and other persons within the
village, and is deemed a public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter shall
constitute a basis for injunctive relief against the violator to restrain and
prohibit the violator from continuing the violation, in addition to any other
relief or penalty provided by this chapter, or allowed by law.
   (D)   Civil action; injunctive relief. Any person who violates any provision
of this chapter shall also be subject to civil action seeking invalidation of
the land division and appropriate injunctive or other relief.
   (E)   Continuing offenses. Each day on which a violation of this chapter
continues constitutes a separate or repeat offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate or repeat offense.
   (F)   Parties liable. Any person who violates any of the provisions
contained in this chapter, whether as owner, lessee, permittee, licensee,
agent, servant, employee, or in any other capacity, shall be liable as a
principle.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 46, passed 2-18-2003)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSE TRAILERS; PARKS; MOTOR HOMES
Section
House Trailers; Trailer Coach Parks
   
151.01   House trailers
   
151.02   Trailer courts
   
151.03   Certification
   
151.04   License to operate
   
151.05   License fees
   
151.06   Municipal trailer park
   
151.07   Discontinued use
Motor Homes
   
151.20   Definitions
   
151.21   Prohibited actions
   
151.22   Application process
   
151.23   Registration
 
   
151.99   Penalty
HOUSE TRAILERS; TRAILER COACH PARKS
§ 151.01 HOUSE TRAILERS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term HOUSE TRAILER shall mean any
vehicle used, or intended for use, as a dwelling, regardless of whether the
vehicle is self-propelling or is moved by other agencies. The following
restrictions shall be applicable to house trailers.
   (A)   No person shall park overnight, or permit the parking overnight of,
any house trailer upon any public highway, street, alley, park, or other public
place within the village.
   (B)   No person shall park, or permit the parking of, a house trailer for
occupancy on any private property within the village except in an authorized
trailer camp licensed under the provisions of Public Act 96 of 1987, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   No person shall park, or permit the parking of, any unoccupied house
trailer outside of a duly licensed trailer coach park, except the parking of
unoccupied trailers in any accessory private garage building, or in any rear
yard, is permitted; provided that no living quarters shall be maintained, or
any business practiced, in the trailers; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to hinder or prevent any person from engaging in
the business of handling trailer coaches for sale, resale, or storage, subject
to the regulations as may be prescribed by this code relative to zoning or
regulation of the business.
   (D)   Emergency, temporary parking or stopping is permitted on any street,
alley, or highway for not longer than one hour, subject to any other and
further prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the traffic and
parking regulations for that street, alley, or highway.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 TRAILER COURTS.
   Applications for permits to construct and operate trailer courts made under
the provisions of Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., as
amended, shall be made to the Village Clerk, who shall refer one copy of the
application and the accompanying plans and specifications to the Building
Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 151.03 CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall investigate the proposed application and
the plans and specifications to determine whether all proposed construction and
all sewers, drains, roads, plumbing, electrical, and heating installations are
properly and sufficiently described on the plans and specifications and
conform, in all respects, to the requirements of this code applicable thereto.
   (B)   He or she shall investigate the same to determine whether the proposed
operation is in conformity with the Zoning Ordinance, other pertinent
provisions of the village code, and Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.2301 et seq., as amended, relating to the location of the proposed use and
the site plan therefor.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall further, in conjunction with the Fire
Chief, investigate the proposed plans and specifications to ascertain that the
same show compliance with all applicable fire safety and fire prevention
provisions of this code, the laws of the state, and regulations of the State
Fire Marshal pertaining thereto.
   (D)   If the Building Inspector is satisfied that the plans and
specifications are sufficient with respect to the foregoing and in compliance
with this code and other requirements, and if he or she shall determine that
the following are complied with, he or she shall approve the application and
forward the same to the State Health Commissioner:
      (1)   The application contains the required information;
      (2)   The plans and specifications for the work for which a permit to
construct is sought, are such that the works, if constructed in accordance
therewith, are, or would be, in his or her judgment, sufficient and adequate to
protect the public health; and
      (3)   The specific requirements of Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.2301 et seq., as amended.
   (E)   In all other cases, the Building Inspector shall disapprove the
application and forward the same to the State Health Commissioner stating his
or her reasons in writing for the disapproval.
   (F)   Prior to forwarding a disapproved application to the State Health
Commissioner, however, the Building Inspector shall notify the applicant of the
disapproval and the reasons therefor, and the applicant shall be given the
opportunity to amend his or her application or the plans and specifications
accompanying the same, if he or she shall desire to do so. Amended applications
shall be referred to the officer or the agency which disapproved the original
application for investigation and further report.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 151.04 LICENSE TO OPERATE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a trailer coach park shall file the
application for a license required by Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.2301 et seq., as amended, with the Health Officer.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the Health Officer shall investigate
to determine whether the park has been constructed according to the approved
plans and specifications and the provisions of Public Act 96 of 1987, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., as amended, have otherwise been complied with.
   (C)   Applications for renewal of licenses may be approved by the Health
Officer when accompanied by the required bond and license fee if:
      (1)   Plans previously approved by the State Health Commissioner are on
file;
      (2)   Park layout and facilities are in substantial conformity with the
approved plans and no deviations exist which, in the judgment of the Health
Officer, cause a hazard to public health or safety; and
      (3)   The Health Officer has inspected the park within six months prior
to the date of application, and inspection has shown satisfactory maintenance
of facilities and compliance with the provisions of Public Act 96 of 1987,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 151.05 LICENSE FEES.
   Annual license fees shall be deposited with the Village Treasurer, but no
special fund shall be established or maintained for the deposits, and the
Village Treasurer is hereby directed to credit the same to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 151.06 MUNICIPAL TRAILER PARK.
   Any trailer park operated upon premises owned by the village and conducted
as a municipal trailer park shall be exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 151.07 DISCONTINUED USE.
   Removal of an authorized trailer from its authorized location for a period
of 72 hours, or discontinued use as a residence for a period of 72 hours, will
terminate the permit, and re-institution of the use will require application
for permit, as in the case of original application; provided, however, that
exchange of an authorized trailer for one of comparable or increased value
within a period of 72 hours will not void the permit issued to the original
trailer.
(Prior Code, § 151.07) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968)
MOTOR HOMES
§ 151.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, MOTOR HOMES means any vehicle
constructed or altered to provide living quarters, including permanently
installed cooking and sleeping facilities, and used for recreation, camping, or
other noncommercial use.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. 34, passed 8-18-1987)
§ 151.21 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   No person shall use, or permit the use of, any motor home as a residence on
any site, lot, field, or tract of land not specifically licensed as a trailer
coach park for more than seven days in any calendar year, except by written
permit as hereinafter provided, and except under the regulations as hereinafter
set forth.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. 34, passed 8-18-1987) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   All applications for a permit shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall
contain:
   (A)   The name of the owner of the motor home and the names of all
occupants, including the ages of all children;
   (B)   The location of the proposed parking site as to street or road and
house number, or by legal property description where no house number is
available;
   (C)   The make and length of the motor home and its vehicle license number;
   (D)   The date of application;
   (E)   The signature of the property owner, accepting his or her
responsibilities under the permit; and
   (F)   The signature of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. 34, passed 8-18-1987)
§ 151.23 REGISTRATION.
   A registration fee of $5 shall accompany the application to the Village
Clerk. Upon approval of the application and receipt of the registration fee,
the Village Clerk shall issue a permit for a period of time not to exceed 14
days in any calendar year. If the applicant is building a residence within the
village, then the Village Clerk shall be authorized to extend the permit for a
period up to 60 days in a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) (Ord. 34, passed 8-18-1987)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person occupying a trailer coach without a permit, or
convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.07, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment for a period
not more than 90 days, or to both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion
of the court.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of §§
151.01 through
151.07 is continued, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate
offense punishable upon conviction in the manner described in this section.
   (C)   Any person occupying a motor home convicted of violating any of the
provisions of §§
151.20 through
151.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$500, together with the costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period
of not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that
a violation of §§
151.20 through
151.23 is continued, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate
offense punishable upon conviction in the manner described in this section.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 18, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. 34, passed 8-18-1987)
CHAPTER 152: STRUCTURES, BUILDING, AND MOVING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   District defined
   
152.02   Specifications; plans; estimated cost
   
152.03   Approval; permit
   
152.04   Permits for buildings moved from outside to within village limits
   
152.05   Permits for all other buildings
   
152.06   Permit issued; fee; posting
   
152.07   Time limit for exterior work
   
152.08   Minimum inside area
   
152.09   Quonset hut; housecar or trailer
   
152.10   Electricity
   
152.11   Federal Housing Administration
Specific Regulations
   
152.25   New or special methods of construction
   
152.26   Temporary basement occupancy
   
152.27   Fee schedule
   
152.28   Necessary maintenance
   
152.29   Duplex, apartment, commercial, industrial building; new construction
   
152.30   Violation
   
152.31   Certificate of occupancy
   
152.32   Certificate of temporary occupancy
   
152.33   Board of Appeals; enforcement
Cross-reference:
Building and structure zoning requirements, see
Ch. 154
Construction warranty, see §
154.298
Dangerous structures and premises, see §
92.21
Moving of structures and buildings; zoning requirements, see §
154.057
Property maintenance standards and requirements, see
Ch. 95
Restoration and repair of damaged buildings; alterations, see §
154.366
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DISTRICT DEFINED.
   The entire corporate limits of the village shall constitute one district to
carry out the provisions of this chapter, and the requirements shall be uniform
for each class of dwelling, building, or structure throughout the district.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.02 SPECIFICATIONS; PLANS; ESTIMATED COST.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct, remove, remodel, or repair any building within the incorporated
limits of the village without first submitting to the Building Inspector of the
village a detailed statement, in writing, giving the specifications and plans
of the work and of the estimated cost thereof; also, there shall be submitted a
plat of the lot, or lots, or lands, the location of the proposed building on
the lot or lands, and all other buildings thereon.
   (B)   The specifications, plans, and estimated cost shall be filed in the
office of the Building Inspector, and shall be deemed as a public record. The
words REPAIR or REMODEL as used in this section shall mean any change in any
building not heretofore used as a dwelling, but that, in the future, is to be
used as a place of living. It shall also be construed as any general repairs to
any building already in use as a dwelling or which has formerly been used as a
dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 APPROVAL; PERMIT.
   If the plans and specifications shall conform with the provisions of this
chapter and all other ordinances pertaining to construction and the Zoning
Ordinance in the village and the laws of the state, then the Building Inspector
shall approve the same, and a written permit shall be granted; otherwise, it
shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.04 PERMITS FOR BUILDINGS MOVED FROM OUTSIDE TO WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS.
   Before any dwelling, or building to be used as a dwelling, be hereafter
permitted to be removed from outside the village to a location within the
village, an application for a building permit shall be filed with the Village
Clerk. The application shall contain plans and specifications of the proposed
building, which the plans and specifications shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter and all other ordinances pertaining to construction and the
Zoning Ordinance in the village and the laws of the state; otherwise, the
permit for the removing of the dwelling into the village shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.05 PERMITS FOR ALL OTHER BUILDINGS.
   For all other buildings to be used as a dwelling, if the plans and
specifications comply with the provisions of this chapter and all other
ordinances pertaining to construction and the Zoning Ordinance in the village,
and the laws of the state, and are approved by the Building Inspector, a permit
shall be granted and issued therefor.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.06 PERMIT ISSUED; FEE; POSTING.
   (A)   All permits shall be issued in triplicate, one copy of which is to be
delivered to the applicant, one to the Building Inspector, and one to be
retained as a permanent record in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon payment of a fee as
specified further in this chapter.
   (C)   With the permit shall be delivered to the applicant a placard with
“Building Permit No. ____” printed thereon, which placard shall be posted in
plain view of the street or highway on the premises mentioned during the
process of the work. The permit shall be non-transferrable.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.07 TIME LIMIT FOR EXTERIOR WORK.
   All exterior work on dwellings, buildings, and structure shall be completed
within one year from the date of the issuance of the permit; that time of
completion can be extended by the Village Council upon proper proof of good,
valid, and sufficient reasons for non-completion, as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.08 MINIMUM INSIDE AREA.
   The inside area of all dwellings shall be not less than 576 square feet and
must comply with all of the sanitary regulations and requirements of the state
at the time the building permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.09 QUONSET HUT; HOUSECAR OR TRAILER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use as a dwelling any building
commonly known as a Quonset hut, housecar, or trailer in the village, unless
permitted in a state-licensed trailer park approved by the State Health
Department and the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.10 ELECTRICITY.
   Where electricity is available, all dwellings must be wired therefor and
comply with the 1953, or subsequent, editions of the National Electrical Code
Standard of the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.11 FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter is designed to assist in the construction of dwellings in the
village, and, therefore, any plans or specifications submitted to, and approved
by, the Federal Housing Administration shall be approved by the village’s
Building Inspector, and a building permit issued for the same.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 152.25 NEW OR SPECIAL METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   New or special methods of construction, not generally conventional, will be
treated as special cases and given special study by the Building Inspector
before permit is issued. However, nothing in this section shall be construed as
barring special methods; provided that sufficient evidence is available that
they constitute sound building methods.
(Prior Code, § 152.25) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.26 TEMPORARY BASEMENT OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Occupancy of a basement as living quarters of a dwelling under
construction shall be permitted for a period of one year; provided, however,
that the basement has two exits and that all sanitary provisions have been made
for occupancy.
   (B)   The period of one year may be extended by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.26) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.27 FEE SCHEDULE.
   All applications for permits under the terms of this chapter shall be
accompanied by a fee in accordance with the schedule set by the Village Council
by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 152.27) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. 44, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 152.28 NECESSARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to include
ordinary normal repairs, the cost of which shall not exceed $200.
   (B)   Painting, re-roofing, and tuckpointing shall be considered necessary
maintenance of a building and shall not require a permit under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.28) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.29 DUPLEX, APARTMENT, COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL BUILDING; NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All new construction of any duplex dwelling, apartment house, commercial
building, or industrial building shall require plans and specifications
prepared by a licensed architect, if demanded by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 152.29) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 152.30 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Should the Building Inspector determine that the construction is not
proceeding according to the plan filed, or is in violation of any provision of
this chapter or any other applicable ordinance, regulation, or law, he or she
shall so notify the permit holder and further construction shall be stayed
until correction has been effected and approved by the Building Inspector, upon
notice and request for re-inspection duly made.
   (B)   Should the permit holder fail to comply with the requirements at any
stage of construction, the Building Inspector is hereby empowered to cancel the
building permit issued, and shall cause notice of the cancellation to be
securely posted upon the construction. Posting of the notice shall be
considered sufficient notification to the permit holder of cancellation. No
further work shall be undertaken or permitted upon the construction until a
valid building permit shall thereafter have been issued.
(Prior Code, § 152.30) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.31 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No building hereafter constructed or altered into a dwelling shall be
occupied in whole, or in part, for human habitation until the issuance of a
certificate by the Building Inspector affirming that the dwelling conforms in
all respects to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The certificate shall be applied for coincidentally with the
application for a building permit, and shall be issued not more than ten days
after the lawful erection, alteration, or removal is complete and final
inspection has been made.
(Prior Code, § 152.31) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.32 CERTIFICATE OF TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   If a building which has been constructed as or altered into a dwelling
is to be occupied in whole, or in part, for human habitation prior to official
notice of complete compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the
occupancy will be unlawful until the owner has obtained a certificate of
temporary occupancy from the Building Inspector stating that the dwelling is
suitable for human habitation and substantially conforms in all respects to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   This certificate of temporary occupancy shall cover a period not
exceeding one year and shall in no way supersede or replace the final
compliance inspection of the premises by the Building Inspector, as provided by
§
152.30.
(Prior Code, § 152.32) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.33 BOARD OF APPEALS; ENFORCEMENT.
   In order that the provisions of this chapter may be reasonably applied and
substantial justice done in instances where practical difficulties are apparent
or unnecessary hardship would result in carrying out the strict letter of this
chapter, a Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Village Council, whose
duty it shall be to consider appeals from the decision of the official charged
with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.33) (Ord. 17, passed 3-18-1968)
CHAPTER 153: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Building permit
   
153.04   General construction and maintenance
   
153.05   Right of inspection
   
153.06   Relation to other ordinances
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   Whereas the construction, maintenance, operation, and use of private
swimming pools is related to, and has an effect upon, the health, welfare, and
safety of the general public, and may, or may not, involve the use of public or
municipal water and sewer facilities, and is therefore effected with the public
interest, this chapter is to establish standards, rules, and regulations
governing the construction, maintenance, operation, and use of private swimming
pools.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 22, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE. Not open to the public, in that it is not publicly owned, or not
otherwise regulated by the state, either by statute or by rules and regulations
of one of its administrative bodies.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any artificially-constructed, portable, or non-portable pools
capable of being used for swimming or bathing, having a depth of two feet or
more at any point.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 22, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 153.03 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   A permit shall be applied for, and, if approved, be issued by
the village’s Building Inspector before construction shall begin on any
swimming pool.
      (2)   The application for the permit shall be accompanied by three
complete and detailed sets of plans and specifications for the swimming pool.
Before any permit shall be issued, the plans and specifications shall be
approved by the Building Inspector and the County Health Department. After
completion of construction, a final inspection and approval must be given by
the Building Inspector and the County Health Department before the pool shall
be used for swimming.
   (B)   All applications for a permit shall be accompanied by a permit fee of
$5.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 22, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 153.04 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Swimming pools shall not be any nearer than six feet from the side or
rear lot lines, or from any house, building, or residence, unless the Building
Inspector shall approve a lesser distance.
   (B)   No exposed electric wires shall be nearer than five feet from the
water’s edge; nor shall any exposed and permanently-installed electric wire
within 25 feet from the water’s edge of the pool be less than ten feet above
ground; nor shall electric wires of any kind cross over the water’s surface at
any point unless approved by the Building Inspector. Any underwater lighting
shall be accomplished by the use of methods and materials approved for such
purposes.
   (C)   There shall be no cross-connections of public or municipal water
supply with any other source of water supply to the pool. The line from the
public or municipal water supply to the pool shall be protected against
backflow of polluted water by means of an air gap, and shall discharge at least
six inches above the maximum water level of the make-up tank or pool.
   (D)   The drain line for the pool must be able to drain the pool without
flooding adjoining or other properties. It may be connected to the public or
municipal sewer system if the following provisions are complied with:
      (1)   Pool drain shall be connected with the storm sewer, if one is
available; and
      (2)   Where a storm sewer is not available, the pool drain may be
connected to the sanitary sewer or a combination sewer, subject to the approval
of the Village Engineer, or his or her duly-authorized representative.
   (E)   The construction of the pool shall be made in such a manner that all
scum, splash, and deck water shall not return to the pool except through a
filter system.
   (F)   The pool shall be kept free at all times from floating material,
sediment, and debris either by an automatic surface skimmer, scum gutter, or by
some other means approved by the Health Department.
   (G)   The entire recirculating system shall be capable of filtering and
recirculating the entire volume content of the pool during a 12-hour period.
The rate of application of pool water on the filters shall not be greater than
three gallons per minute per square foot of filter area. The Health Department
may approve other rates of re-circulation or rates of application of water on
the filters. Recirculating systems must be equipped with either an approved
flow meter or a flow control valve equivalent to the Griswold Model No. 10.
   (H)   A provision shall be made for positive germicidal or bacterial control
by the use of chlorine, bromine, or other such disinfecting agents as may be
approved by the Health Department.
      (1)   The disinfecting agents shall be applied to the pool water at a
uniform rate.
      (2)   Provisions shall be made for adjusting the application thereof so
as to keep germicidal or bacterial protection of the water in the pool equal to
a standard of 0.5 parts per million to 1.0 parts per million chlorine residual.
      (3)   Testing devices capable of accurately measuring the residual shall
be provided.
   (I)   All swimming pools to be constructed, or which have already been
constructed, shall be enclosed by a “see-through” type fence, such as chain
link, which shall be at least four feet in height and which shall be of a type
not readily climbed by children. The gates shall be of a self-closing and
latching type with the latch on the inside of the fence, not readily available
for children to open from the outside; provided, however, that if the entire
premises of the residence is enclosed, then this provision may be waived by the
Building Inspector upon inspection and approval of the residence enclosure;
provided further, that swimming pools already constructed shall comply with
this division within 60 days after this chapter becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. 22, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 153.05 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The County Health Department and the village’s Building Inspector shall have
the right, at any reasonable hour, to inspect any swimming pool for the purpose
of determining that all provisions of this chapter are being complied with.
(Prior Code, § 153.05) (Ord. 22, passed 3-18-1968)
§ 153.06 RELATION TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter in no way is intended to amend or alter any existing village
ordinance or state statute, the provisions of which are not covered herein.
(Prior Code, § 153.06) (Ord. 22, passed 3-18-1968)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
Introduction
   
154.001   Authority
   
154.002   Purpose and intent
   
154.003   Repeal
   
154.004   Title
   
154.005   Effective date
Rules of Text; Definitions
   
154.020   Rules applying to the text
   
154.021   Definitions
General Provisions
   
154.035   Jurisdiction
   
154.036   Compliance
   
154.037   Access to a street
   
154.038   Accessory structures and uses
   
154.039   Adult uses
   
154.040   Approval of plats
   
154.041   Basements and garages as dwellings
   
154.042   Building grades
   
154.043   Conversion of dwellings
   
154.044   Corner and through lots
   
154.045   Clear vision corners and curves
   
154.046   Driveways
   
154.047   Dwelling requirements
   
154.048   Dwellings in non-residential zoning districts
   
154.049   Earthmoving
   
154.050   Excavation, removal, or fill of minerals or soil
   
154.051   Essential services
   
154.052   Farm animals
   
154.053   Height exceptions
   
154.054   Home occupations
   
154.055   Household pets
   
154.056   Lot frontage, area, and space required
   
154.057   Moving of structures and buildings
   
154.058   Multiple uses of buildings
   
154.059   On-site sewage treatment and water well facilities
   
154.060   Principal use
   
154.061   Public and institutional uses
   
154.062   Screening required
   
154.063   Substandard lots of record
   
154.064   Site restrictions
   
154.065   Supplementary yard provisions
   
154.066   Setback for structures and septic systems from water bodies
   
154.067   Structures on more than one lot
   
154.068   Swimming pools
   
154.069   Temporary facilities
   
154.070   Temporary housing
   
154.071   Vehicles
   
154.072   Walls and fences
Zoning Districts and Map
   
154.085   Zoning districts
   
154.086   Zoning district map
   
154.087   Resolution of zoning district boundaries
R-1 Single-Family Residential District
   
154.100   Intent and purpose
   
154.101   Uses allowed by right
   
154.102   Accessory structure and uses
   
154.103   Special land uses
   
154.104   Height, area, and dimension regulations
   
154.105   General district standards and requirements
R-2 Single-Family and Two-Family Residential District
   
154.120   Intent and purpose
   
154.121   Uses allowed by right
   
154.122   Accessory structures and uses
   
154.123   Special land uses
   
154.124   Height, area, and dimension regulations
   
154.125   General district standards and requirements
R-3 High-Density Multiple-Family Residential District
   
154.140   Intent and purpose
   
154.141   Uses allowed by right
   
154.142   Accessory uses
   
154.143   Special land uses
   
154.144   Height, area, and dimension regulations
   
154.145   General district standards and requirements
MHP Manufactured Housing Community District
   
154.160   Statement of purpose
   
154.161   Allowed uses
   
154.162   Accessory structures and uses
   
154.163   Special land uses
   
154.164   Height, area and dimension regulations
   
154.165   Basis for approval
   
154.166   Submittal of plans and approval
   
154.167   General requirements
   
154.168   Final construction plans and drawings
   
154.169   Other requirements
   
154.170   Special provisions
   
154.171   Use and location
C-1 Commercial District
   
154.185   Intent and purpose
   
154.186   Uses allowed by right
   
154.187   Accessory structures and uses
   
154.188   Special land uses
   
154.189   District height, area, and dimension regulations
   
154.190   General district standards and requirements
L-I Light Industrial District
   
154.205   Intent and purpose
   
154.206   Uses allowed by right
   
154.207   Accessory structures and uses
   
154.208   Special land uses
   
154.209   Height, area, and dimension regulations
   
154.210   General district standards and requirements
   
154.211   Submission of plans
   
154.212   Procedure
   
154.213   Prohibited uses
IND Industrial District
   
154.225   Intent and purpose
   
154.226   Uses allowed by right
   
154.227   Accessory structures and uses
   
154.228   Special land uses
   
154.229   District height, area, and dimension regulations
   
154.230   General district standards and requirements
   
154.231   Submission of plans
   
154.232   Procedure
   
154.233   Prohibited uses
R-PD Residential Planned Development District
   
154.245   Intent and purpose
   
154.246   Permitted uses
   
154.247   Development requirements and standards
   
154.246   Application and procedures
   
154.249   Required improvements and performance guarantees
   
154.250   Modification of PUD
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.265   Parking spaces
   
154.266   Off-street loading requirements
   
154.267   Handicapped parking requirements
   
154.268   Ingress and egress of service vehicles and automobiles
   
154.269   Industrial Zoning District
   
154.270   Parking requirements off-street
   
154.271   Setbacks
Site Plan Review Procedures
   
154.285   Uses requiring site plan approval
   
154.286   Preliminary plan review
   
154.287   Village Site Plan Review Committee
   
154.288   Review of preliminary site plan
   
154.289   Final site plan review
   
154.290   Review procedure
   
154.291   Site plan review
   
154.292   Regulations
   
154.293   Conditions of approval
   
154.294   Surety
   
154.295   Performance guarantees
   
154.296   Surety types
   
154.297   Procedures for inspecting, approving, and accepting improvements
   
154.298   Construction warranty
   
154.299   Release or exercise of surety
   
154.300   Violations
   
154.301   Exceptions
   
154.302   Changes to site plan
   
154.303   Enforcement
Special Land Uses
   
154.315   Description and purpose
   
154.316   Application procedures
   
154.317   Basis for determination
   
154.318   Surety
   
154.319   Design standards
Signs
   
154.330   Intent
   
154.331   Application requirements for all signs
   
154.332   Regulations for all signs
   
154.333   Measuring size of signs
   
154.334   Wall signs
   
154.335   Projecting signs
   
154.336   Ground signs
   
154.337   Freestanding signs
   
154.338   Signs in residential districts
   
154.339   Signs in commercial districts
   
154.340   Industrial districts
   
154.341   Signs not to constitute a traffic hazard
   
154.342   Portable or movable signs
   
154.343   Off-site advertising signs
   
154.344   Temporary signs
   
154.345   Exempted signs
   
154.346   Prohibited signs
   
154.347   Sign maintenance responsibilities and removal
   
154.348   Existing nonconforming signs
Nonconforming Uses, Structures and Lots
   
154.360   Description and purpose
   
154.361   Continuing existing uses
   
154.362   Extensions; enlargements; moving
   
154.363   Nonconforming uses discontinued
   
154.364   Change of nonconforming uses
   
154.365   Nonconforming structures and uses
   
154.366   Restoration and repair of damaged buildings; alterations
   
154.367   Nonconforming lots
   
154.368   Determination of a lot of record
Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA)
   
154.380   Creation
   
154.381   Membership
   
154.382   Alternate members
   
154.383   Officers and rules of organization
   
154.384   Meetings, minutes, and attendance
   
154.385   Appeals procedure
   
154.386   Stay of proceedings
   
154.387   Hearings
   
154.388   Powers of the ZBA
   
154.389   Decisions
   
154.390   Standards for granting variances
   
154.391   Variances
   
154.392   Appeals of the ZBA
   
154.393   Fees
   
154.394   Time limit
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.405   Administration
   
154.406   Zoning Administrator
   
154.407   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
154.408   Planning Commission
   
154.409   Zoning permit
   
154.410   Ordinance amendments and changes
   
154.411   Costs and fees
   
154.412   Violations
   
154.413   Conflicting authority
   
154.414   Conflicting ordinances
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Building permits, see §§
152.04 and
152.05
Certificate of occupancy or temporary occupancy, see §§
152.31 and
152.32
House trailer, trailer coach park, and motor home requirements, see
Ch. 151
Land division, see
Ch. 150
Temporary basement occupancy, see §
152.26
INTRODUCTION
§ 154.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Public Act 110 of
2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 154.001) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the general intent of this chapter to require and restrict the use of
all structures, lands, and waters; regulate and restrict lot coverage,
population distribution and density, and the size and location of all
structures so as to lessen congestion in, and promote the safety and efficiency
of, the streets and highways; secure safety from fire, flooding, panic, and
other dangers; provide adequate light, air, sanitation and drainage; prevent
overcrowding; avoid undue population concentration; facilitate the adequate
provision of public facilities and utilities; further the appropriate use of
land and conservation of natural resources; and, in general, protect and
promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community. This shall be
in accordance with the village policies planning study. It is further intended
to provide for the administration and enforcement of this chapter and to
provide penalties for its violation.
(Prior Code, § 154.002) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.003 REPEAL.
   All other ordinances, or parts of ordinances, of the village inconsistent or
in conflict with this chapter to the extent of inconsistency or conflict only
are hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 154.004) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.004 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance; Village of Rothbury,
Michigan,” and shall be referred to herein as the “Zoning Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 154.005) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective upon publication.
(Prior Code, § 154.006) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
RULES OF TEXT; DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 RULES APPLYING TO THE TEXT.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words or phrases used herein are
defined as follows.
   (A)   The particular will control the general.
   (B)   Chapter headings that title a chapter, section, or divisions are for
convenience only and are not to be considered in any way construction or
interpretation of this chapter, or as enlarging or restricting the terms and
provisions of this chapter, in any respect.
   (C)   The words WILL and SHALL are always mandatory and not discretionary.
The word MAY is discretionary and is not interchangeable with the word SHALL.
   (D)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary:
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense;
      (2)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number;
and
      (3)   Words used in the plural number shall include the singular number.
   (E)   A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
   (F)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, trust, or equivalent entity, or a combination of any of
them as well as an individual.
   (G)   The words USED or OCCUPIED, as applied to any land or building, shall
be construed to include the words INTENDED, ARRANGED, DESIGNED TO USE, BE USED,
or OCCUPIED.
   (H)   Any word or term not defined herein shall have the meaning as defined
in Webster’s New World Dictionary.
(Prior Code, § 154.020) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE, BUILDING, OR STRUCTURE. A use, building, or structure on the
same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use, buildings, or structure.
   ACT. The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITIES. Include medium group homes, large group homes,
and congregate facilities. These FACILITIES (not private homes) provide 24-hour
care to seven or more adults. ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITIES are licensed by
Public Act 218 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 through 400.737, the Adult
Foster Care Facility Licensing Act.
   ADULT USES. Any conduct within an establishment having a substantial or
significant portion of its income from material, services, or matters
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting, describing, or
relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as
defined herein); that presents material by books, films, slides, or the like,
or by live presentation that includes services to the patron of an
establishment, that material being distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined herein). ADULT USES
shall include, but not be limited to: adult bookstores; adult motion picture
theaters; massage establishments; and establishments for the consumption of
beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises that also have ADULT USES.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, partnership, public or private corporation,
authority, agency, or any other legal entity, or a combination of any of them,
whether they hold an ownership interest in the land or not, who submits an
application to the village as required by this chapter. The APPLICANT shall
become the owner upon approval of an application.
   AUTO CONVENIENCE MART. A place where gasoline, motor oil, lubricants, or
other minor automobile accessories are retailed directly to the public on the
premises in combination with the retail sale of food, beverages, rental of
videotapes, preparation of food, and other items typically found in a
convenience store or market. Automobile repair will not be allowed in an AUTO
CONVENIENCE MARKET.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES. A device that performs banking or financial
functions at a location remote or accessory to the controlling financial
institution.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. Any major activity involving the general repair,
rebuilding, or reconditioning of motor vehicles, engines, or trailers;
collision services, such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair; or
overall painting and vehicle rust proofing, refinishing, or steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION. A building designed or used for the retail sale
of fuel (stored only in underground tanks), lubricants, air, water, and other
operating commodities for motor vehicles (including trucks), aircraft, boats,
and including the customary space and facilities for the installation of the
commodities on, or in, the vehicles, and including facilities for storage, hand
washing, minor repair, and servicing, but not including automobile repair.
   BASEMENT or CELLAR. A story partly underground with at least one-half of its
height below the average level of the adjoining ground shall not be considered
as a story, unless used for dwelling purposes in conjunction with upper-story
living quarters.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A residential structure that, besides being a permanent
home, provides temporary room and board as a home occupation.
   BERM. A mound of earth graded, shaped, and improved with landscaping in a
way used for screening purposes.
   BILLBOARD. A billboard is a specific type of off-premises freestanding sign
in excess of 100 square feet intended to attract the attention of the motoring
public.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, equipment,
machinery, or materials.
   BUILDING AREA. The total living area bounded by the exterior walls of a
building at the floor level, but not including unheated utility rooms and
breezeways, or basements, garages, porches, and unfinished attics.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of
the finished grade adjoining the building at all exterior walls to the highest
point of a flat roof, and the midpoint between the eaves and the peak of the
roof. See BUILDING HEIGHT illustration below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bb821a9e5eff980343f4096d293f9637b6195e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1013.png]
 
   CLEAR VISION CORNER OR CURVE. The portion of a corner lot within 25 feet of
an intersection, or the right-of-way of two streets, where obstructions might
impair the ability of drivers to see oncoming traffic.
   COFFEE KIOSK. A retail business in a freestanding building that sells
coffee, or other beverages, and bakery goods from a drive-through window to
customers seated in their automobiles for consumption off-premises, and that
provides no indoor or outdoor seating.
   COMMERCIAL. This term relates to the use of property in connection with the
purchase, sale, barter, display, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise, or
personal services, or the maintenance of service offices or recreation or
amusement enterprises, or garage/basement sales operating more than 12 days
during any 12-month period, not to exceed three consecutive days.
   COPY SHOP. A retail establishment that provides duplicating services using
photocopying, blueprint, and offset printing equipment, and may include the
collating and binding of booklets and reports.
   CORNER LOT. A lot fronting on two or more intersecting streets.
   DAYCARE FACILITIES. A facility for the care of children or adults for less
than 24 hours. DAYCARE FACILITIES do not include state-licensed residential
facilities, family daycare homes, foster-family homes, or adult foster care
facilities. See also INSTITUTIONAL CARE FACILITIES. The facilities are further
defined as follows:
      ADULT DAYCARE (PRIVATE HOME). Offers a supervised environment for
temporary care of adults 18 years old and older; and
      GROUP DAYCARE HOME. A private home where seven to 12 children are
received for care and supervision. This number shall not include more than two
children younger than two years old. A GROUP DAYCARE HOME is a facility
licensed and regulated by the state under Public Act 116 of 1973, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128, as amended.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   A building, or portion thereof, that is occupied as the home,
residence, or sleeping place by one or more human beings, either permanently or
transiently, but in no case a tent or vehicle, including campers and motor
homes.
      (2)   In cases of mixed occupancy where a building is occupied in part as
a DWELLING, the part so occupied shall be deemed a DWELLING for the purpose of
this chapter, and shall comply with the provisions hereof relative to
DWELLINGS. Garage space, whether in an attached or detached garage, shall not
be deemed a part of a DWELLING for area requirements.
      (3)   DWELLING, EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit located in a multiple-
dwelling and consisting of one room, exclusive of bathroom, with kitchen,
hallway, closets, or dining alcove directly off the principal room; provided
the unit has not less than 350 square feet of floor area.
      (4)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more
dwelling units designed for residential use and conforming in all other
respects to the standards set forth below for DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY.
      (5)   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. Also known as a SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A
detached building containing not more than one dwelling unit designed for
residential use, complying with the following standards:
         (a)   The DWELLING, if not a mobile home, shall be firmly attached to
a permanent foundation constructed on the site in accordance with the
International Building Code, and the area between the grade elevation of the
lot and the structure shall have a wall of the same perimeter dimensions of the
dwelling and be constructed of the materials and type as required in the
International Building Code for single-family dwellings; and
         (b)   The minimum square footage requirements of this chapter for the
zone in which it is located.
      (6)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. Also known as a DUPLEX DWELLING. A detached
building containing two separate dwelling units designed for residential use
and conforming in all other respects to the standards set forth above for
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, having cooking facilities,
which is occupied wholly as the home, residence, or sleeping place of one
family, either permanently or transiently. In cases of mixed occupancy where a
building is occupied in part as a DWELLING UNIT, the part so occupied shall be
deemed a DWELLING UNIT for the purpose of this chapter and shall comply with
the provisions thereof relative to dwellings.
   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES. Accredited public, parochial, or private elementary
and secondary schools, colleges, universities, professional schools, junior
colleges, technical institutes, libraries, trade schools, vocational schools,
and other establishments primarily engaged in offering educational courses and
services, including job training and vocational rehabilitation services.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
      (1)   The erection, construction, or alteration by public or private
utility companies of underground, surface, or overhead transmission or
distribution systems for gas, electricity, water, communications, or fuel, and
disposal by towers, poles, wires, traffic signals, pumps, lift stations, mains,
drains, vaults, sewers, culverts, pipes, conduits, cables, catch basins, water
storage tanks, hydrants, and similar devices, but not including buildings
necessary in supplying the foregoing SERVICES.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter,
telecommunications towers and antennas shall be regulated and allowed pursuant
to the general provisions section of this chapter and shall not be regulated or
allowed as ESSENTIAL SERVICES under this chapter.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS. Non-domestic wild animals including any non-game species of
mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian not indigenous or not now commonly found in
the county, such as, but not limited to: wolves; wolf hybrids; bears; lions;
tigers; leopards; gorillas; boars; or wolverines and vicious dog breeds.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   Any number of individuals living and sharing cooking facilities
together on the premises as a single housekeeping unit. FAMILY includes a
person living alone in a single dwelling, or two or more persons whose domestic
relationship is of a continuing, non-transient character and who reside
together living as a single housekeeping unit in one dwelling.
      (2)   This definition does not include a collective number of individuals
or any society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, federation, lodge,
school dormitory, organization, or any other groups whose domestic relationship
is of a transitional or seasonal nature or for an anticipated limited duration.
   FAMILY DAYCARE HOME.
      (1)   A private home in which one to six children are received for care
and supervision, including those children less than seven years old in the
resident family.
      (2)   A FAMILY DAYCARE HOME is a facility licensed and regulated by the
state under Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128,
as amended.
   FARM ANIMALS. All animals or fowl that are not household pets or exotic
animals. FARM ANIMALS are animals such as horses, pigs, goats, or cattle.
   FENCES and WALLS. Accessory structures erected to enclose or screen areas of
land. Retaining walls are erected to support an embankment or to prevent
erosion or collapse of steep slopes.
   FRATERNAL AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS. Include, but are not limited to,
social clubs and social benefit organizations, such as Lions, Rotary, Kiwanis,
Elks, Trout Unlimited, Ducks Unlimited, land conservancies, or other similar
organizations.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign elevated by supports so that the bottom of the
sign is greater than one and one-half feet above ground level.
   GARDENING. The growing, cultivating, and caring of plants for pleasure and
not for commercial purposes, or for obtaining a profit by the selling of garden
products, or any other agricultural, horticultural or floricultural product
such as fruits, plants, ornamental trees, timber, shrubs, nursery stock, and
vegetables.
   GOVERNMENT SERVICES. Public parks and recreational uses; municipal, county,
state, and federal administration buildings; police and fire stations; public
libraries and museums; government-owned facilities, buildings, and structures,
such as community centers, civic centers, individual and family social
services; cemeteries; and/or similar government owned and operated uses
providing services to the community.
   GRADE ESTABLISHED. The elevation of the centerline of the streets as
officially established by the village.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA). The total floor area that is heated and used for the
main activities and storage areas of a building. GFA is the area of all floors
computed by measuring the dimensions of the outside walls of a building.
Porches, patios, terraces, breezeways, carports, verandas, garages, unfinished
attics, and attic floor areas with less than five vertical feet from the floor
to finished ceiling, and all basements, including walkout basements, are
excluded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bb821a9e5eff980343f4096d293f9637b6195e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1015.png]
 
   GROUND SIGN. Signs attached directly to the ground or having a clear space
beneath them of less than one and one-half feet. GROUND SIGNS may have messages
on one or more sides.
   HEALTH SERVICES CLINICS. Establishments primarily engaged in providing
inpatient health-related personal care, in which children and adults are
received for care and treatment.
      (1)   HEALTH SERVICES CLINICS include offices of dentists, doctors,
orthodontists, chiropractors, and outpatient med-stations.
      (2)   Establishments of this type do not include homes for the aged,
assisted living facilities, extended-care facilities, nursing homes,
intermediate care facilities, convalescent homes, rest homes, any establishment
commonly described as an alcohol or a substance abuse rehabilitation center, or
personal care facilities with health care, or institutional care facilities
where individuals receive care for extended periods.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation which is conducted by a member of a family
residing in the dwelling, and is entirely confined within the dwelling
structure, so that the HOME OCCUPATION shall not require internal or external
alterations, or involve use of mechanical equipment which would cause smoke,
noise, odors, dust, glare, vibration, electrical or radio interference, traffic
generation, sanitary sewage, surface drainage, or water supply conditions or
hazards, any of which would be in excess or contrary to normal residential use.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Any animal kept for companionship, personal enjoyment, and
pleasure, and treated with fondness that is customarily kept within a dwelling.
HOUSEHOLD PETS are commonly purchased in a pet store and have been tamed or
domesticated and are not likely to bite, attack, or cause death, maiming, or
illness, or act in a vicious manner toward humans without provocation.
HOUSEHOLD PETS are limited to such animals as dogs, cats, fish, birds, rodents,
lizards, non-venomous snakes, and spiders.
   INSTITUTIONAL CARE FACILITIES. A facility for the care of children or adults
such as, but not limited to, hospitals, extended-care facilities, and nursing
homes. INSTITUTIONAL CARE FACILITIES do not include state licensed residential
facilities, or adult foster care facilities. (See DAYCARE FACILITIES.)
INSTITUTIONAL CARE FACILITIES can be further defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT DAYCARE (INSTITUTIONAL). Offer a supervised environment for
temporary care of adults in an institutional (non-residential) setting;
      (2)   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES. Provide care to elderly individuals as
a special combination of housing, personalized supportive services, and health
care. ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES include independent living facilities, senior
housing, or extended-care facilities. ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES are not
regulated or licensed by state agencies;
      (3)   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a private home, where one
child or more is received for care and supervision;
      (4)   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. A facility licensed for the care of 12 or
more children;
      (5)   EXTENDED-CARE FACILITIES. Provide inpatient nursing and health-
related personal care other than in a private home, in which one or more adults
who are aged or physically impaired are received for care and supervision.
EXTENDED-TERM CARE FACILITIES include nursing homes, hospice facilities,
subacute care facilities, and homes for the aged as regulated by Public Act 368
of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., or the Public Health Code, as
amended; and
      (6)   INTERGENERATIONAL DAYCARE. A daycare facility that combines the
care of children with the care of adults.
   INSTITUTIONAL USES. Institutional uses are churches; nonprofit recreational
clubs; charter; trade; educational services, such as public and parochial
elementary, intermediate, and high schools (non-boarding), public or private
business schools or colleges; and/or similar uses providing service necessary
to the community.
   JUNK YARD. A place where discarded or salvaged materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, processed, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including house-wrecking, structural steel materials salvage, and automobile
wrecking enterprises. The purchase or storage of used furniture and household
equipment, used cars in operable condition, or used or salvaged materials used
in manufacturing are excluded if those uses are carried on in enclosed
buildings.
   LOT. Land occupied, or to be occupied, by one building and accessory
buildings, or utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together
with the open spaces as are required under this chapter and having sufficient
size to meet the requirements of this chapter, and having immediate frontage
upon a public street.
   LOT AREA. The computed area inside lot lines, the minimum size of which is
specified for each zone.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side parcel lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The side of a lot adjoining a public road, street, or access
easement. Minimum frontage requirement shall be met on one lot side only where
a lot has more than one side adjoining a road, street, or access easement.
   LOT LINE.
      (1)   The LOT LINE defines the boundaries of a lot or parcel of land.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. The right-of-way line of the street or road on
which the lot is located. For a through lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is the line
separating the lot from each road right-of-way. In a corner lot, the FRONT LOT
LINE will be as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. Any lot line that is not a front or side lot
line.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line that intersects with the front lot
line, or a lot line that is more or less perpendicular to the front lot line.
      (2)   In cases of irregularly-shaped lots or other unusual circumstances,
front, side, and rear LOT LINES shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator, based on factors, such as the orientation of the principal
structure, the location of the main entrance, the street address, the location
and orientation of adjacent structures, and the configuration of adjacent lots.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, uninterrupted
by other lots or rights-of-way, and measured at the required front setback
line.
      (1)   In the event that a lot may have more than one horizontal distance
between side lot lines (as shown in the figure), only the greatest distance
shall be used to meet the LOT WIDTH requirement, and under no circumstances
shall the minimum LOT WIDTH be determined based on more than one horizontal
distance.
      (2)   The minimum LOT WIDTH shall be established for each zoning district
according to the schedule of district regulations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bb821a9e5eff980343f4096d293f9637b6195e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1017.png]
 
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure transportable in one or more sections, whether self-
propelled or non self-propelled, so designed and constructed as will permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct
of any business or profession, occupation, or trade so designed that it is, or
may be, mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on streets or highways.
      (2)   A travel trailer is not to be considered as a MANUFACTURED HOME,
but a double-wide trailer shall be classified as a MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MULTIPLE USES OF BUILDINGS. Two or more commercial establishments or group
of businesses that provide a variety of merchandise and/or services occurring
within a single structure that requires a location on a major road and a large
parking area to accommodate vehicular traffic. Such a center may be a small
neighborhood center, a discount store, or a mall, though this does not limit
the use to be one or any of these.
   NONCONFORMING USE, BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR LOT. A use, building, structure,
or lot of record existing at the time of enactment of this chapter and which
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Located on a parcel, but separate from the parcel that is
the focus of the message being displayed. OFF-PREMISES SIGNS are not related to
the premises, or the nature of the business conducted, or products sold or
manufactured on the premises on which the sign is located.
   OWNER. Unless otherwise proved by deed or other similar instrument, the
person in whose name the property appears on the most recent property tax roll.
   PERSONAL PET FACILITIES. Intended for the keeping of household pets on
residential property; includes small enclosures and fenced yard areas.
   PLAT. A subdivision of land into lots.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The main structure on a lot that houses the principal
use of the premises.
   PRINCIPAL USE. Those uses of land or buildings that constitute the primary
use of the property as permitted as PRINCIPAL USES in this chapter.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any individual, partnership, public or private corporation,
or any other legal entity holding an ownership interest in land, whether
recorded or not. An OWNERSHIP INTEREST means ownership by one person or by
different private entities if the land is owned by joint interest or by members
of the same immediate family.
   PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITY. A site used by a public utility provider for
treatment, transmission, or production of a utility commodity including
facilities for maintenance and storage.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular transportable structure mounted on wheels
that is self-propelled or towed by a motor vehicle.
      (1)   A travel trailer is designed to provide temporary living quarters
for recreational, camping, or travel use.
      (2)   This definition includes, but is not limited to: portable
structures commonly known as motor homes; travel trailers; travel homes; fold-
down campers; truck-mounted campers; converted buses; and fifth wheels.
   REFUSE STORAGE AREAS. Where garbage, dumpsters, compactors, compactor
systems, and refuse containers are stored outside of an establishment. REFUSE
STORAGE AREAS not within a screened rear service area and which are visible
from a public right-of-way for all non-residential, multi-family, and
manufactured/mobile home park uses shall be visually screened.
   RESIDENCE. A building designed, or used exclusively, as a permanent living
quarters.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A structure not on a permanent foundation for the temporary
display or sale of produce grown on the premises.
   SAME OR SIMILAR OWNERSHIP.
      (1)   Ownership by the same person, by members of the same immediate
family, or ownership by different legal entities if a 30% or greater interest
in each of those legal entities is owned by the same individual, or by a
member, or members, of the same immediate family.
      (2)   Where two or more parcels share a common property line, ownership
of at least one, but less than all, of the parcels by a particular individual,
and ownership of the remaining parcel, or parcels, by a private legal entity,
in which the individual or a member, or members, of his or her immediate
family, own a 30% or greater interest, will constitute SAME OR SIMILAR
OWNERSHIP.
   SETBACK. A line measured from, and parallel to, the front, rear, and side
lot lines that establishes the minimum distance that a building or structure is
allowed to be located from the lot line.
      (1)   SETBACK also is referred to as the required SETBACK LINE.
      (2)   Steps may be located between the required SETBACK LINE and the lot
line. Porches are considered part of the building or structure and must meet
required SETBACK requirements.
   SIGN. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names, or trademarks by which anything is made known or
which are used to advertise or promote an individual firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity, or product, and which is visible
from any public right-of-way.
   SIGN MESSAGE. The words, symbols, and graphic content of a sign.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. A site condominium subdivision is a division
of land based on condominium ownership that is subject to the provisions of the
Condominium Act, or Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing that shows the locations and dimensions of
improvements on a parcel of land such as, but not limited to: buildings;
driveways; parking facilities; landscaping; sidewalks; signs; sewage systems;
water supply; and drainage facilities.
   SPECIAL LAND USE. Use of a special nature so as to make impractical its
predetermination as a principal use in a district, and subject to permit
procedures set forth for the uses in this chapter.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, female breasts (below a point immediately
above the top of the areola), and human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Specified sexual activities are defined as
human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal, acts of human
masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy, and the fondling or other erotic
touching of human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks, or female breasts.
   STATE-LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A private home licensed by the state
pursuant to Public Act 218 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 through 400.737,
the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, as amended, which provides 24-
hour residential care for six or fewer persons not related to an adult member
of the household.
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME. A home with the approved capacity to
receive six or fewer adults to be provided with foster care.
      (2)   ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL-GROUP HOME. A home with the approved
capacity to receive 12 or fewer adults, but which houses six or fewer.
      (3)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A home in which either five or six minor
children are received for care and supervision.
      (4)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. Homes in which less than five minor children
are received for care and supervision, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian.
   STATE RIGHT TO FARM ACT. The Michigan Right to Farm Act (MRFA), Act 93 of
1981 and being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 et seq.
   STORAGE SHED. A small building that may or may not be built from a
prepackaged kit. STORAGE SHEDS typically do not require a building permit and
may or may not be constructed on a concrete slab or be anchored to the ground.
STORAGE SHEDS are used for outside storage of yard implements and equipment. A
STORAGE SHED has less than 200 gross square feet.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if there be no floor above it,
the space between the floor and the ceiling above it.
   STREET. An improved thoroughfare for vehicular traffic providing access to
abutting properties. A public STREET is within a right-of-way generally not
less than 66 feet wide.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of the
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built, constructed, or erected which requires permanent
location on the ground, or attachment to something located on the ground.
   SUBDIVISIONS AND SITE CONDOMINIUMS. As defined in Public Act 59 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, and Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER.
      (1)   A structure designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting antennae and accessory equipment used in receiving or transmitting
telecommunication or radio signals from mobile communication sources and
transmitting those signals to another wireless site, communication source, or
receiver or to a central switching computer which connects the mobile unit with
land-based telephone lines.
      (2)   Examples of these structures include, without limitations:
freestanding towers; guy towers; monopoles and lattice towers to transmit or
receive radio; television, cellular telephone, or related signals or
transmissions.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS. A dish antenna greater than three feet in
diameter, the purpose of which is designed for use as an earth-based station
for the reception of communications or other signals from orbiting satellites
or other extraterrestrial sources, together with other incidental transmission
equipment related to such purpose.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Signs for short-term advertising without permanent in-ground
supports.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having
a body width not exceeding ten feet.
   USABLE FLOOR AREA (UFA). The total area of all the floors of the building
used by the principal activity, measured from the exterior faces of the
building. The areas used for storage, mechanical equipment, stairwells, or
otherwise not occupied by people shall be excluded.
   UTILITIES. Public and private facilities such as water wells, water and
sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and communication
transmission lines, electrical power substations, static transformer stations,
telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays, and gas regulation
stations.
   VIDEO RENTAL STORE. An establishment engaged in the retail rental or lease
of videotapes, films, CD-ROMS, laser discs, electronic games, cassettes, or
other electronic media. A VIDEO RENTAL STORE may also have limited sales of
rental merchandise and electronic merchandise associated with VCRs, video
cameras, and electronic games.
   WALL SIGN. Attached to a building, lying flat against the wall of the
building therewith.
   WALLS. See FENCES AND WALLS.
   YARD. An area located between the lot line and the principal structure.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the distance between the front lot line and the nearest point
of the principal structure.
      (2)   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the distance between the rear lot line and the nearest point
of the principal structure.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. A yard between a principal structure and the side lot
line extending from the front of the principal structure to the rear of the
principal structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68bb821a9e5eff980343f4096d293f9637b6195e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1019.png]
 
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person having the duties of administering and
enforcing this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.021) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. passed 8-14-2018)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.035 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all land and water areas
within the incorporated area of the village.
(Prior Code, § 154.035) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.036 COMPLIANCE.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, or moved, nor shall
any building or premises hereafter be used for any purpose other than is
permitted in the district in which the building or premises is located;
   (B)   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the maximum allowed height;
      (2)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      (3)   To intrude upon the required front, rear, or side yards;
      (4)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families; or
      (5)   To provide less living space per dwelling unit area than is
specified for the district in which the building is located.
   (C)   No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished that yards and other
open spaces shall be smaller than specified, nor shall the density of
population be increased in any manner except in conformity with the area
regulations, nor shall the area of any lot be reduced below the minimum
requirements herein established for the district in which the lot is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.036) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.037 ACCESS TO A STREET.
   (A)   All lots must abut on a street or road for an uninterrupted distance
equal to the minimum lot width as required in this chapter.
   (B)   For a lot abutting the end turnaround area of a cul-de-sac, the
minimum road frontage will be 50 feet, provided that the lot width meets the
minimum lot width requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.037) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.038 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following requirements
shall be met.
   (A)   Principal structures must be present on the parcel before accessory
structures and uses.
   (B)   Where the accessory structure is attached to a principal building, it
shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this chapter
applicable to such principal buildings.
   (C)   Accessory structures and uses shall not be erected in any front yard
in accordance with the definition of “yard” in this chapter. An accessory
building may be allowed in a front yard if the building is 300 feet or more
from the road right-of-way.
   (D)   Accessory structures and uses must be at least ten feet from any lot
line.
   (E)   Accessory structures and uses shall be located at least 20 feet from
any public or private road right-of-way line.
   (F)   No accessory structure shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (G)   The aggregate gross square footage of all accessory structures shall
not exceed the gross square footage of the principal building.
   (H)   On a waterfront lot, an accessory structure shall not be erected or
maintained within 100 feet of the ordinary high-water mark (except a boathouse,
not greater than ten feet in height above the mean water level).
(Prior Code, § 154.038) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.039 ADULT USES.
   Adult uses are allowed according to the following standards.
   (A)   The need for special regulation of certain business uses that, by
their very nature, are deemed to have unique characteristics and effects on
surrounding properties, is recognized as a legitimate objective. Special
regulation is needed to ensure these uses are not concentrated in any one area,
thus preventing adverse effects on the surrounding neighborhood, such as blight
and urban deterioration, negative effects on economic development potential,
social disorder and crime, negative effects on community standards for
aesthetics, the reduction of property values, and the subsequent negative
impact on the community tax base. The primary objective is to prevent a
concentration of these uses by establishing spacing standards, and, thus,
ensuring disbursement of these uses throughout the community.
   (B)   Adult uses shall only be located within commercial zoning districts.
   (C)   An application to establish an adult entertainment activity shall not
be approved if there is already in existence one or more adult uses within 500
feet of the boundaries of the site of the proposed activities, excepting as
otherwise provided for within this section.
   (D)   An application to establish an adult entertainment activity shall not
be approved if the proposed location is within 500 feet of any licensed daycare
facility, adult foster care home, senior citizens’ center, park or church, and
shall not be approved if the proposed location is within 2,650 feet from any K-
12 or alternative educational or charter school, except as otherwise provided
for within this chapter.
   (E)   The Planning Commission may waive the locational standards limiting
adult uses as they relate to similar uses if the following findings are made.
      (1)   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest or
injurious to nearby properties, and that the spirit and intent of the section
will be observed.
      (2)   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development of a
“skid-row” area.
      (3)   The establishment of an additional regulated use in the area will
not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation, nor will it
interfere with any program of urban renewal.
      (4)   All applicable regulations of this section will be observed.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may waive the locational standards limiting
the location of adult uses as they relate to licensed daycare facilities, adult
foster care homes, senior citizen centers, parks, or churches; provided that a
validated petition requesting such a waiver is presented to the Planning
Commission, signed by the owners or purchasers of at least 51% of the parcels
of land within 500 feet of the proposed location. In addition to this
requirement, the Planning Commission may waive the requirement that adult uses
be located no closer than 2,650 feet from schools only if the proponent also
demonstrates that school children are not required to pass by the location
while walking to or from school. Any petition presented to the Planning
Commission shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   A statement in the form of an affidavit attested to by the
circulator of the petition that the circulator personally witnessed the
signatures on the petition and the same were affixed to the petition by the
person whose name appeared thereon;
      (2)   A statement on the petition so worded that the signers of the
petition will attest to the fact that they are the owners or purchasers of the
parcel of land identified by the permanent parcel number opposite their
signatures;
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, parcels of land shall equate to
the permanent parcel numbers assigned by the township to all property within
the 500 feet;
      (4)   An applicant requesting a waiver of locational requirements shall
file an application with the Zoning Administrator; however, the Zoning
Administrator shall not accept an application for the waiver of locational
requirements for an adult entertainment activity as it relates to licensed
daycare facilities, adult foster care homes, senior citizen centers, K-12 or
alternative educational or charter schools, parks, or churches, without a
petition as required herein. The petition shall be validated by the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall then notify the Planning
Commission of the receipt of the requests and petition within 15 days of
filing; and
      (5)   Before the granting of a waiver of locational requirements, the
Planning Commission may impose any conditions or limitations upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance, or operations of regulated
use as may, in its judgment, be necessary for the protection of the public
interest. Any evidence and guarantee may be required as proof that the
conditions stipulated in connection therewith will be fulfilled.
(Prior Code, § 154.039) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.040 APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   The Village Council shall not approve a proposed plat of a new subdivision
after recommendation by the Planning Commission, unless the lots within the
plat equal or exceed the applicable requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.040) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.041 BASEMENTS AND GARAGES AS DWELLINGS.
   Any dwelling without a full floor above any part of the building grade shall
be considered a basement dwelling, which is prohibited. The use of basement
dwellings and garages for dwelling purposes is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 154.041) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.042 BUILDING GRADES.
   Any building shall be located at such an elevation that a sloping grade
shall be maintained to cause the flow of surface water to run away from the
walls of the building. When a new building is constructed on a vacant lot
between two existing buildings, or adjacent to an existing building, the
existing established grade shall be used in determining the grade around the
new building, and the yard around the new building shall be graded in such a
manner so as to meet existing grades and not to permit runoff of surface water
to flow onto the adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 154.042) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.043 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling, or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this chapter, and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in the district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, dimensions of yards, and other open spaces and off-street
parking.
(Prior Code, § 154.043) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.044 CORNER AND THROUGH LOTS.
   Any yard that abuts a street right-of-way shall meet the front yard
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.044) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.045 CLEAR VISION CORNERS AND CURVES.
   No wall, sign, fence, structure, or planting over 30 inches in height shall
be planted, erected, or maintained on any lot on the street side of a line
drawn between two points each being 30 feet from the intersection of the
rights-of-way of two intersecting streets, or which reasonably obstructs, or
interferes with, traffic visibility on a curve.
(Prior Code, § 154.045) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.046 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   An approved driveway permit must be obtained from the Street
Administrator and submitted to the Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance
of a zoning permit.
   (B)   All driveways must maintain a cleared driving area for their entire
length to a width of 12 feet and a cleared height of ten feet. No driveway may
have a slope greater than 15%.
(Prior Code, § 154.046) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.047 DWELLING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every dwelling shall:
   (A)   Comply with the minimum requirements of this chapter for the zone in
which it is located, including living area requirements, area, height, width,
and dimension regulations;
   (B)   (1)   Have a minimum actual width across any front, side, or rear
elevation of 24 feet through 75% of its length, and comply in all respects with
the current International Building Code standards, including minimum heights
for habitable rooms; and
      (2)   Where a dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal or
state standards or regulations for construction that are different from those
imposed by the current International Building Code standards, then the federal
or state standard or regulation shall apply.
   (C)   Be firmly attached to a permanent foundation or footings buried
beneath the frost line following the current International Building Code
standards, and shall have a wall of the same perimeter dimension of the
dwelling and constructed of the materials and type as required in the
applicable building code for single-family dwellings;
   (D)   In the event that the dwelling is a mobile home, be installed pursuant
to the manufacturer’s setup instructions and the rules and regulations of the
State Mobile Home Commission, and shall be secured to the premises by an
anchoring system or device also complying with the rules and regulations of the
State Mobile Home Commission.
      (1)   In addition, the area between the grade elevation of the lot and
the mobile home shall either have a wall of the same perimeter dimensions of
the mobile home and constructed of such materials and type as required in the
Residential Code for single-family dwellings, or instead have skirting of the
same perimeter dimensions of the mobile home, which skirting shall be in
compliance with the standards set forth in Rule 604 of the State Mobile Home
Code promulgated by the State Mobile Home Commission, being Mich. Admin. Code
R. 125.1604, as amended.
      (2)   All construction and all plumbing, electrical apparatuses, and
insulation within, and connected to, said mobile home shall be of a type and
quality conforming to the Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards as
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
being 24 C.F.R. Part 3280, and as from time to time such standards may be
amended;
   (E)   Be installed with the wheels removed, in the event that a dwelling is
a mobile home, as defined herein. Additionally, no dwelling shall have any
exposed towing mechanism, undercarriage, or chassis. The perimeter of the
mobile home shall have a skirting of a permanent nature similar to that used
for site-built housing;
   (F)   Be connected to a public sewer and water supply or to such private
facilities approved by the County Health Department. All drain fields,
absorption beds, or seepage pits shall not be closer than 100 feet from any
lake, stream, river, or other surface water;
   (G)   Contain a storage capability area in a basement located under the
dwelling, in an attic area, in closet areas, or in a separate structure of
standard construction similar to, or of better quality than, the principal
dwelling, which storage area shall be equal to 10% of the square footage of the
dwelling, or 100 square feet, whichever is less; and
   (H)   Be aesthetically compatible in design and appearance with other
dwellings in the vicinity, with either a roof overhang of not less than 12
inches on all sides or, alternatively, with window sills; a minimum four-in-12-
roof pitch; has not less than two exterior doors, with the second door being in
either the rear or side of the dwelling; and contains permanently-attached
steps connected to the exterior door areas, or to porches connected to the door
areas where a difference in elevation requires the same.
      (1)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the Zoning Administrator upon review of the plans
submitted for a particular dwelling, subject to appeal by an aggrieved partly
to the Zoning Board of Appeals within a period of 15 days from the receipt of
notice of the Zoning Administrator’s decision.
      (2)   Any determination of compatibility shall be based upon the
standards set forth in this section, as well as character, design, and
appearance of one or more residential dwellings located outside manufactured
housing parks throughout the village.
      (3)   The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit innovative design
concepts involving such matters as solar energy, view, unique land contour, or
relief from the common or standard designed home:
         (a)   Contains no additions, rooms, or other areas that are not
constructed with similar- quality workmanship as the original structure,
including permanent attachment to the principal structure and construction of a
foundation as required herein;
         (b)   Complies with all pertinent building and fire codes;
         (c)   All dwellings shall meet or exceed all applicable roof snow load
and strength requirements;
         (d)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home in a
licensed manufactured housing park except to the extent required by state or
federal law or otherwise specifically required in the ordinance of the village
concerning the parks; and
         (e)   All construction required herein shall be commenced only after a
zoning permit has been obtained in accordance with the current International
Building Code standards.
(Prior Code, § 154.047) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.048 DWELLINGS IN NON-RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   No dwelling shall be erected in a non-residential zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 154.048) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.049 EARTHMOVING.
   (A)   Earthmoving affecting areas greater than two acres shall require
review and approval of a site plan by the Planning Commission in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   Site plan review shall be required to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare and to protect ground and surface waters, natural drainage,
and water tables.
   (C)   Once the Planning Commission has approved a site plan, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue an earthmoving permit that shall be valid for six
months.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may renew the permit for one additional six-
month period, if all of the conditions of the approved site plan are met.
(Prior Code, § 154.049) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.050 EXCAVATION, REMOVAL, OR FILL OF MINERALS OR SOIL.
   The use of land for the extraction and removal, or fill of minerals or
topsoil, sand, gravel, stone, or other material shall be prohibited within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 154.050) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.051 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized under any
franchise or that may be required by any law of the state, or any ordinance of
the village, it being the intention hereof to exempt the essential services
from the application of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for public utilities, municipal departments, or
commissions to erect, construct, alter, or maintain overhead or underground
gas, telephone cable, electrical, steam or water distribution or transmission
systems, collection, communication supply or disposal systems, including poles
and towers, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes,
police equipment, and accessories in connection therewith; providing those
services are below ground or located within a public right-of-way.
   (C)    Essential services located above-ground and outside of public rights-
of-way will be subject to the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The erection or construction of any or all buildings and structures
shall be designed and erected to conform harmoniously to the general
architecture and plan of such zoning district in which it is to be erected;
      (2)   All buildings or structures must comply with the use, height, area,
building, or structure necessary for public convenience and service; provided
that the public building, structure, or use is designed, erected, and
landscaped to conform harmoniously with the general architecture and plan of
the zoning district, and the advantage of the proposed location to the utility
is not outweighed by the detriment to the locality, and a different suitable
location is not readily available; and
      (3)   Are screened from view, as much as possible, using natural
materials. Landscaping is preferred to walls and fences.
(Prior Code, § 154.051) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.052 ANIMALS.
   No animal or fowl, exotic animal, or farm animal, other than household pets,
may be kept in any zoning district, except as provided by another village
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 154.052) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.053 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All districts. The height requirements of all zoning districts may be
exceeded for parapet walls (providing they are not more than four feet in
height), chimneys, silos, farm barns and storage buildings, roof-mounted
television and radio antennae, cupolas, spires, ornamental projections, water
towers, or telecommunication towers.
   (B)   Industrial districts. In the industrial zoning districts, chimneys,
cooling and fire towers, elevator buildings and bulkheads, roof storage tanks,
and other necessary accessory structures are allowed; provided that they are
located not less than the same distance as their height from any adjoining
property.
(Prior Code, § 154.053) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.054 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   An occupation may be conducted in a dwelling, provided that:
   (A)   No person other than immediate members of the family residing on the
premises shall be engaged in the occupation;
   (B)   The use shall be contained entirely within the dwelling and shall not
alter the residential character or appearance of the property;
   (C)   The use of the dwelling for the occupation shall be clearly incidental
and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants, and not
more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling or its equivalent in an
accessory building shall be used in the conduct of home occupations;
   (D)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home occupations other
than one sign, not exceeding six square feet in area, non-illuminated, and
mounted flat against the wall of the principal building;
   (E)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupations in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood. Any need
for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupations shall be met off
the street;
   (F)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, smoke, effluents, odors, or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses off the premises or causes
fluctuation in line voltage off the premises;
   (G)   Outdoor storage of equipment, trucks, machines, or supplies is
prohibited;
   (H)   Retail sales and machine manufacture of goods from raw materials are
not allowed; and
   (I)   Bed and breakfast establishments may be located only in single-family
dwellings operated by the property owner. There must be one parking space for
each guest room.
      (1)   The number of guestrooms shall be limited to one for each 1,000
square feet of GFA.
      (2)   Meals may be served in a separate room designed for serving meals,
and only to overnight guests, not the general public.
(Prior Code, § 154.054) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.055 HOUSEHOLD PETS.
   Not more than four household pets of any species may be kept on any parcel.
Household pets not kept indoors must be within cages or on other types of
restraints.
(Prior Code, § 154.055) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.056 LOT FRONTAGE, AREA, AND SPACE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All lots shall have frontage on a public street and shall have the
minimum lot width at the frontage of not less than that required in the zoning
district in which it is located.
   (B)   No lot, or lots, in single ownership, and no required setback, parking
facilities, or other space, shall be reduced to less than the minimum area or
space required under this chapter.
   (C)   No lot, or lots, in the same or similar ownership shall be further
reduced if already less than the minimum.
   (D)   Vacant lots in same or similar ownership that do not meet the minimum
required lot size shall be combined to meet the dimensional standards for the
zoning district in which they are located.
   (E)   No portion of an existing lot of record shall be sold if the new lot
that is created does not meet the area and dimension requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.056) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.057 MOVING OF STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The moving of a structure or building shall be considered the erection
of a new building or structure and shall fully conform to all the provisions of
this chapter in the same manner as a new building or structure. Any building or
structure shall not be moved until a permit for the removal shall have been
secured. All provisions relative to the erection of new structures shall be
met, including a building permit.
   (B)   Before a permit may be issued for moving a building or structure, the
Building Inspector shall inspect the same and shall determine if it is in a
safe condition to be moved, and whether it complies with the Building Code and
use requirements of the zoning district to which it is to be moved.
   (C)   Provided that these conditions can be complied with, a permit shall be
issued for the moving of the building or structure.
   (D)   A performance bond may be required by the Zoning Administrator prior
to the moving in the amount of 10% of the assessed valuation of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 154.057) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.058 MULTIPLE USES OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Multiple uses of a single building as the principal use in commercial
and industrial zoning districts may be allowed by special land use.
   (B)   All uses must be allowed in the zoning district in which the multiple
uses are to be located.
(Prior Code, § 154.058) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.059 ON-SITE SEWAGE TREATMENT AND WATER WELL FACILITIES.
   (A)   All uses not served by a public sewer must obtain an approved permit
for the necessary on-site sewer and water facilities from the County Health
Department.
   (B)   The permit must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, together
with a diagram with dimensions showing the location and size of the facilities,
prior to the issuance of a zoning permit and building permit.
(Prior Code, § 154.059) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.060 PRINCIPAL USE.
   (A)   Only one principal use shall be made of a lot except as otherwise
specifically allowed.
   (B)   A single-family dwelling, other than a farm dwelling, shall constitute
a principal use, and only one single-family dwelling shall be allowed on a lot.
(Prior Code, § 154.060) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.061 PUBLIC AND INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   Public and institutional uses, as a special land use, may be located in any
zoning district upon approval by the Planning Commission, as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.061) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.062 SCREENING REQUIRED.
   All uses and activities requiring screening must be submitted to the
Planning Commission according to the site plan review requirements of this
chapter.
   (A)   General screening requirements. All uses listed below shall be
screened from adjacent residential zoning districts as required in this
section. Screening may consist of walls, fences, vegetation, and berming, or a
combination of any of these, as allowed by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Buildings in commercial districts;
      (2)   Buildings in industrial districts;
      (3)   Communication towers;
      (4)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (5)   Outdoor storage areas;
      (6)   Off-street parking facilities;
      (7)   Loading and unloading areas;
      (8)   Compost facilities; and
      (9)   All other uses specifically identified as having to meet the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Walls and fences shall have no openings for vehicular traffic or
other purposes except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except the
openings as may be approved by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Walls and fences shall be constructed of durable, weather-
resistant, rustproof, and easily- maintained materials.
      (3)   Walls and fences may not be constructed with openings that exceed
20% of the surface. The openings shall not reduce the obscuring effect and
shall not reduce the minimum height requirement.
      (4)   The height of the required fence or wall shall be as follows:
Wall and Fence Heights Required Height
Wall and Fence Heights            Required Height
Buildings in commercial districts 4 feet, 6 inches
Buildings in industrial districts 6 feet
Loading and unloading areas       6 feet
Multi-family dwellings            Use
Off-street parking facilities     4 feet, 6 inches
Outdoor storage areas             6 feet to 8 feet*
*Wall height shall be a minimum of six feet unless a higher wall is required
to adequately screen the area, with a maximum wall height being eight feet
 
   (C)   Vegetation.
      (1)   Vegetation shall consist of upright conifers such as, but not
limited to: Blue, Green, White or Serbian Spruce; Douglas Fir; Austrian Pine;
Juniper; or Hemlock.
      (2)   There shall be a greenbelt planting strip with a width of not less
than 20 feet along the property lines and may be within the required setback.
The greenbelt shall contain at least one straight or double-staggered row of
deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced not more than 40 feet apart, and at
least three rows of deciduous and/or evergreen shrubs spaced not more than
eight feet apart and which grow to an ultimate height of not less than 12 feet.
      (3)   For staggered, double-row plantings, trees shall be planted not
more than 15 feet on center. For single-row spacing, trees shall be planted not
more than ten feet on center.
      (4)   Trees shall not be less than five feet in height at the time of
planting.
      (5)   Existing trees that comply with the standards of this section, as
determined by the Planning Commission, shall be credited toward meeting the
screening requirements.
      (6)   (a)   All required plant units shall be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition.
         (b)   Any required plant units that are destroyed, removed, diseased,
or die shall be replaced within six months with plant units that meet the
requirements of this section.
         (c)   Failure to maintain required plant units in such a manner,
including the removal and replacement of dead or diseased plant materials,
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (7)   The plantings shall be maintained in a neat and attractive manner
commensurate with the adjoining areas, and shall maintain their density and
screening effect throughout the calendar year.
   (D)   Berming.
      (1)   Berms shall be constructed with one foot of rise for each three
feet of horizontal rise.
      (2)   Berms shall be constructed of clean fill and topsoil, and seeded
with perennial rye and an appropriate grass seed, and shall be covered with
organic mulch.
      (3)   Berms shall be landscaped with shrubbery and trees to enhance the
screening effect and aesthetic appearance of the berm, and shall be maintained
in a neat and attractive manner.
   (E)   Landscaping.
      (1)   LANDSCAPING shall mean, at a minimum, an area constructed of clean
fill and topsoil and seeded with perennial rye and an appropriate grass seed
with a minimum 30% cover of plant materials and mulch.
      (2)   Landscaping may include berms. Berms may include shrubbery and
trees to enhance the landscaping effect and aesthetic appearance.
      (3)   Screening of refuse storage areas:
         (a)   Trash, garbage, and refuse storage and receiving areas are
required to be screened from view. Screening walls or fences for these purposes
shall be a minimum of four feet and six inches in height and shall be of
satisfactory height so as to completely screen the appropriate areas from view;
and
         (b)   Screening walls shall have no openings except for gates or doors
intended to access the area.
      (4)   Surety, as required by this chapter, sufficient to cover the cost
of the required screening may be required and used if the required improvements
are not completed within 12 months from the date of approval.
(Prior Code, § 154.062) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.063 SUBSTANDARD LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Any lot in a single ownership, which ownership was of record at the
time of the adoption of this chapter, which does not meet the requirements of
this chapter for lot area, may be utilized for uses permitted under this
chapter; provided that all other requirements of this chapter are met.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may adjust the yard and lot area
requirements to not less than 75% of the requirements in this chapter upon
application by the property owner to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 154.063) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.064 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No land shall be used, or structure erected, where the Zoning
Administrator, by reason of flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage,
holds the land unsuitable for the use or structure, adverse soil or rock
formation, unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength,
erosion susceptibility or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health,
safety, well-being, and general welfare of this community.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, in applying the provisions of this section
shall, in writing, recite the particular facts upon which he or she bases his
or her conclusion that the land is not suitable for certain land uses.
      (1)   The applicant shall have recourse to the Zoning Board of Appeals to
appeal the Zoning Administrator’s findings and to present evidence contesting
the unsuitability if he or she so desires.
      (2)   Thereafter, the Zoning Board of Appeals may affirm, modify, or deny
the application or the Zoning Administrator’s determination of unsuitability.
(Prior Code, § 154.064) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.065 SUPPLEMENTARY YARD PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Roofed porches and other enclosed appurtenances shall be considered an
integral part of the building to which they are attached and shall be subject
to all yard requirements thereof.
   (B)   Chimneys, flues, sills, pilasters, cornices, eaves, gutters, and
similar features may project into any required yard a maximum of 24 inches.
   (C)   Unenclosed and unroofed fire escapes, outside stairways, and balconies
may project into a required yard a maximum of five feet.
   (D)   The following structural appurtenances shall be permitted to exceed
the height limitations for authorized uses in any district:
      (1)   Those purely ornamental in purpose, such as church spires,
belfries, domes, cupolas, ornamental towers, flagpoles, and monuments; and
      (2)   Those necessary to mechanical or structural functions, such as
chimneys, smoke stacks, water tanks, elevator and stairway enclosures,
ventilators, bulkheads, aerials and antennas, electronic devices, heating and
cooling units, and fire towers.
(Prior Code, § 154.065) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.066 SETBACK FOR STRUCTURES AND SEPTIC SYSTEMS FROM WATER BODIES.
   No private sewage system nor any principal structure for human occupancy
shall be located less than 100 feet from the normal high-water line of any
surface body of water nor any sewage system located less than four feet above
the normal high-groundwater table level. Fill material may not be used to
elevate a septic system in order to meet the requirement of four feet above the
normal high-groundwater table level.
(Prior Code, § 154.066) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.067 STRUCTURES ON MORE THAN ONE LOT.
   If a structure is proposed to be constructed on the lot line of two or more
lots under single ownership, the lots must be combined into a single tax
identification number before a zoning permit will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 154.067) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.068 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Swimming pools may be installed in any zoning district as an accessory use.
All pools must meet the following conditions and the provisions of the State
Department of Public Health.
   (A)   Pools may be installed in the side or rear yards of a lot in
residential and agricultural districts. Motels and hotels may install pools in
the front yard. All yard requirements shall be met, except as provided below.
   (B)   Fences not less than five feet in height shall be required. The
support posts thereof shall be constructed in a permanent manner and in such a
way so as to last for the duration of the pool. The posts shall be spaced at
intervals of not more than eight feet. The fences shall entirely enclose the
pool.
   (C)   Every gate or other opening in the fence shall be designed and
maintained to prevent entry of persons, except as allowed by the property
owner, and consistent with the International Building Code.
   (D)   No pool or pool enclosure shall be erected closer than five feet from
the rear and side property lines of the lot. For corner lots, the pool shall
not be located closer than 20 feet from any property line abutting any street.
   (E)   Pools may not occupy more than 40% of the area of the yard. In
computing the area, all other accessory structures shall be excluded.
   (F)   The inlet of the water supply system shall be above the overflow level
of the pool and fitted with an anti-siphon device.
   (G)   The pool shall be chemically treated in a manner sufficient to
maintain bacterial standards established by the provisions of the State
Department of Health relating to public swimming pools.
   (H)   Backwash or drainage of swimming pools shall not be allowed to
discharge beyond the property line or directly into any wetland, stream, or
body of water.
(Prior Code, § 154.068) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.069 TEMPORARY FACILITIES.
   Temporary accessory structures for non-residential purposes only may be
allowed by permit by the Zoning Administrator for construction activities. The
permit shall specify the location of the temporary accessory structure and
shall cancel 12 months after the date of its issuance. The Zoning Administrator
may renew the permit for additional six-month periods, not to exceed two years,
if he or she finds good cause. In any event, the temporary accessory structures
and all debris shall be removed within 15 days after completion or abandonment
of the work.
(Prior Code, § 154.069) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.070 TEMPORARY HOUSING.
   (A)   Mobile homes and/or recreational vehicles shall be allowed as
temporary housing provided they meet the following requirements. The Building
Inspector may issue a permit for temporary housing or use of a mobile home
constructed to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
specifications outside of an approved and licensed manufactured housing park
under the following situations:
      (1)   For use as a temporary dwelling for the occupants of a dwelling
damaged by fire or storm; and
      (2)   For use as a temporary dwelling during the construction of a new
permanent dwelling on the same parcel, provided that a zoning permit has been
issued for the permanent dwelling prior to the issuance of the temporary
housing permit for the mobile home.
   (B)   The temporary housing permit shall not be issued unless the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The mobile home and/or recreational vehicle must be located within
100 feet of the principal residential dwelling;
      (2)   The mobile home and/or recreational vehicle has a water system and
septic tank system that meets the requirements of the County Health Department.
A certificate from the Department showing the compliance shall be filed with
the Building Inspector before any use or occupancy is made of the mobile home;
      (3)   The mobile home and/or recreational vehicle shall be placed on a
cement slab or supported by cement piers or blocking to form a foundation for
the mobile home frame. The mobile home frame shall be anchored to the ground or
anchored in the cement slab; and
      (4)   One-half of the normal setback requirements for a single-family
dwelling shall be met.
   (C)   The time allowed by the temporary housing permit shall not exceed one
year. A temporary housing permit issued under this section shall not be renewed
for the same unit or location without the approval of the Board of Appeals.
   (D)   The fee and bond to be paid for the issuance of a temporary housing
permit for a mobile home shall be established by the Village Council. The
village has the power to retain the fee at its sole discretion. If a permit is
allowed to be renewed, an additional fee and bond will be collected.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall revoke the temporary housing permit at
any time if the usage violates any of the requirements outlined in this
section. If a permit is revoked, the unit must be vacated and removed from the
property within 30 days, or it constitutes a violation of the ordinance and is
subject to the penalties outlined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.070) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. passed 8-14-2018)
Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.071 VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles without current license and registration shall not be stored
outside of an enclosed structure.
   (B)   No motor home or travel trailer shall be used or located within the
village except in accordance with the following regulations.
      (1)   No person shall park overnight, or permit the parking overnight of,
any motor home or travel trailer upon any public highway, street, alley, or
park within the village.
      (2)   No person shall park, or permit the parking of, any unoccupied
motor home or travel trailers outside a duly licensed recreational vehicle
park, except in an accessory building or rear yard; provided no living quarters
shall be maintained, or any business practiced, in the vehicle.
      (3)   No motor home or recreational vehicle shall be located on any lot
where there is no principal building.
      (4)   Except as may be allowed by other village ordinances, the use of
recreational vehicles for dwelling purposes is prohibited.
      (5)   (a)   Storage of commercial vehicles, and semi-trailers (tractor or
trailer) exceeding a rated capacity of two and one-half tons is prohibited in
all residential zoning districts.
         (b)   Temporary off-street parking of the vehicles may be allowed in
residential districts by permit issued by the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   Storage shall be defined as the keeping of more than one such
vehicle for a period of 30 days or longer per calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 154.071) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.072 WALLS AND FENCES.
   (A)   Walls and fences. Walls and fences shall be allowed, subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   In all districts, all fences shall be erected with fence posts and
supports on the interior side.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed of used or
unconventional fencing materials including, but not limited to: pallets; tree
trunks; trash; tires; junk; or other similar items.
      (3)   Fences may be located on the property line, but may not extend into
any right-of-way or onto adjacent property.
      (4)   Fence heights shall be measured from the surface of the ground
immediately below the location of the fence.
      (5)   Fences for swimming pools shall be allowed as required in this
chapter.
      (6)   Fences shall not be located within 30 feet of the ordinary high-
water mark of a lake or stream.
      (7)   All fences shall be of a design and location so that they do not
obstruct the vision of motorists on adjacent roads or the vision of pedestrians
or motorists leaving the premises.
      (8)   Retaining walls are exempt from these fence provisions.
   (B)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Fences not greater than six feet in height are allowed in side or
rear yards.
      (2)   Fences not more than four feet in height are allowed in the front
yard if they are not more than 25% solid.
      (3)   Fences not more than three feet in height are allowed in the front
yard if they are more than 50% solid.
      (4)   Fences shall not contain barbed wire, razor wire, spikes, or
electric current.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   A chain-link, protective fence not in excess of six feet in height
is allowed in all yards.
      (2)   Fences in commercial zoning districts shall not contain barbed
wire, razor wire, or electric current.
(Prior Code, § 154.072) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 154.085 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the village is divided into the following
zoning districts:
   (A)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
   (B)   R-2 Single-Family and Two-Family Residential District;
   (C)   R-3 High-Density Multiple-Family Residential District;
   (D)   MHP Manufactured Housing Park District;
   (E)   C-1 Commercial District;
   (F)   L-I Light Industrial District; and
   (G)   IND Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 154.085) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.086 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby
established as shown on the map, entitled “Official Zoning District Map,” on
file with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Village Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing a
new zoning map each time any changes in the zoning district boundary lines, are
duly adopted by the Village Council.
   (C)   The “Official Zoning District Map,” together with all information
shown thereon, shall be as much a part of this chapter as if fully set forth
and described herein.
(Prior Code, § 154.086) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.087 RESOLUTION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where zoning district boundaries may be uncertain, the following procedures
and determinations shall prevail.
   (A)   Where zoning district boundaries follow roads, streets, highways,
alleys, utility easements, or railroad rights-of-way, the boundary lines shall
be construed to be the centerline of the rights-of-way or easements, unless
clearly shown to the contrary.
   (B)   (1)   Where any uncertainty exists as to the exact location of a
zoning district boundary line, the village’s Planning Commission, upon written
application, or upon its own initiative, shall determine the location of the
boundary line.
      (2)   Any such determination so made by the Commission shall be forwarded
to the Zoning Administrator, who thereupon shall record the determination upon
the “Official Zoning District Map.”
(Prior Code, § 154.087) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.100 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   To provide areas for low-density residential development only, based
upon such factors as existing land uses, existing or anticipated availability
of public utility and other services, and physical characteristics, and to
prohibit other activities which are incompatible with a residential
environment.
   (B)   It is intended that large homes will be accommodated on sufficiently-
large lots, and to provide safe water supply and sewage disposal, and to ensure
adequate light, air, and privacy to residents consistent with the goals and
policies as set forth in the village’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Outlying open space, large vacant parcels, and very low-density
housing characterize this low-density, Single-Family Residential District.
Areas not entirely suitable for development due to the presence of wetlands,
floodplain, high-water table, drainage characteristics, or other natural
restriction or characteristic would typify this density and type of
development.
(Prior Code, § 154.100) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.101 USES ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings; and
   (B)   Playgrounds and parks.
(Prior Code, § 154.101) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.102 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Home occupations; and
   (B)   Gardening.
(Prior Code, § 154.102) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.103 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   When specifically approved by the village’s Planning Commission, the
following uses are permitted in any R-1 Residential District subject to the
special requirements imposed by the Planning Commission as are necessary to
achieve compatibility with other permitted uses:
   (A)   Schools and churches;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (C)   Daycare facilities; and
   (D)   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act,
and exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.103) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.104 HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum density: one unit/two acres;
   (B)   Minimum lot size: 40,000 square feet;
   (C)   Setbacks:
 
Type  Size
Front 40 feet*
Rear  50 feet
Side  10 feet
*When the actual front setback of buildings on adjacent lots is different than
the required setback, the setback must comply with the average of the existing
buildings.
 
   (D)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet;
   (E)   Maximum structure height: 30 feet; and
   (F)   Minimum floor area: 1,200 square feet. All setbacks shall be measured
from the road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 154.104) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.105 GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For corner lots, the side setbacks adjoining the street shall maintain
a minimum setback of not less than 25 feet.
   (B)   Accessory structures detached from the principal structure located in
the rear setback area may be constructed to not less than ten feet from the
rear and side lot lines, or in accordance with the corner lot setbacks.
   (C)   No building, structure, or premises shall be used, erected, or
structurally altered, except that there be provided, on the same lot as the
principal use intended to be served, off-street parking spaces sufficient for
two automobiles of standard size.
   (D)   No zoning permit shall be issued and no lot shall be utilized unless
the same fronts on or abuts a public road, which shall serve as a right-of-way
to all abutting owners and to vehicles and/or utilities.
(Prior Code, § 154.105) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.120 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The R-2 Residential Zoning District provides an area in the community where
lesser-sized lots are available for small homes. Properties are characterized
by smaller lots and have access to existing public roads. The primary principal
uses in this area are single-family dwellings; however, duplexes could be
allowed in this District where it is economically feasible; provided that
standards are maintained relating to a safe water supply and sewage disposal,
and to ensure adequate light, air, and privacy consistent with the goals and
policies as set forth in the Comprehensive Plan. The R-2 Residential Zoning
District consists of most of the existing residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 154.120) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.121 USES ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplexes; and
   (C)   Public playgrounds and parks.
(Prior Code, § 154.121) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.122 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Home occupations; and
   (B)   Gardening.
(Prior Code, § 154.122) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.123 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   When specifically approved by the Planning Commission, the following uses
are permitted in any R-2 Residential District subject to the special
requirements as are necessary to achieve compatibility with other permitted
uses:
   (A)   Schools and churches;
   (B)   Campgrounds;
   (C)   Daycare facilities; and
   (D)   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act,
and exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.123) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.124 HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum density: three units/acre;
   (B)   Minimum lot size: 15,000 square feet;
   (C)   Setbacks:
 
Type  Size
Front 40 feet*
Rear  50 feet
Side  10 feet
*When the actual front setback of buildings on adjacent lots is different than
the required setback, the setback must comply with the average of the existing
buildings.
 
   (D)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet;
   (E)   Maximum structure height: 30 feet; and
   (F)   Minimum floor area: 1,100 square feet. All setbacks shall be measured
from the road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 154.124) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.125 GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For corner lots, the side yard adjoining the street shall maintain a
minimum setback of not less than 25 feet.
   (B)   Accessory structures detached from the principal structure located in
the rear yard area may be constructed to not less than ten feet from the rear
lot line and ten feet from the side lot lines, or in accordance with the corner
lot setbacks.
   (C)   No building, structure, or premises shall be used, erected, or
structurally altered except that there be provided, on the same lot as the
principal use intended to be served, off-street parking spaces sufficient for
two automobiles of standard size for each dwelling unit.
   (D)   No zoning permit shall be issued and no lot shall be utilized unless
the same fronts on or abuts a public road, which shall serve as a right-of-way
to all abutting owners and to public vehicles and/or utilities.
(Prior Code, § 154.125) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
R-3 HIGH-DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.140 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   To provide a higher-density rental or leased dwelling unit alternative
for those citizens who prefer to live in an apartment or similar-type dwelling
unit; to provide uniform standards for safe water supplies, and sewage
disposal; and to promote the characteristics compatible with the existing rural
and small town atmosphere.
   (B)   They are typically located adjacent to existing higher-density
residential uses and multi-family housing separated to the extent possible from
lower-density, single-family areas.
   (C)   Possible uses in these areas are apartment complexes, condominiums,
duplexes, apartments, townhouses, or any combination of these, senior citizen
housing, and nursing homes. Anticipated densities may be up to 15 units per
acre; provided, the appropriate public services are available.
(Prior Code, § 154.140) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.141 USES ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Apartments;
   (B)   Condominiums;
   (C)   Duplexes; and
   (D)   Townhouses.
(Prior Code, § 154.141) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.142 ACCESSORY USES.
   Uses customarily incidental to the permitted uses including:
   (A)   Parking areas;
   (B)   Solid waste collection and storage facilities;
   (C)   Laundry facilities;
   (D)   Open space and recreational uses;
   (E)   Meeting rooms, group kitchens, and food service facilities, when
designed solely for the use of residents of the development; and
   (F)   Maintenance and storage buildings, when designed solely for the
operation and maintenance of the development.
(Prior Code, § 154.142) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.143 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act, and
exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.143) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.144 HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Density: 15 units/acre;
   (B)   Minimum lot size: 15,000 square feet;
   (C)   Setbacks:
 
Type  Size
Front 40 feet*
Rear  40 feet
Side  25 feet
*When the actual front setback of buildings on adjacent lots is different than
the required setback, the setback must comply with the average of the existing
buildings.
 
   (D)   Minimum lot width: 300 feet;
   (E)   Maximum structure height: 40 feet;
   (F)   Minimum floor area:
 
Type                  Size
Four or more bedrooms 1,000 square feet, plus an additional 100 square feet for
                      every bedroom more than four
One bedroom           600 square feet
Studio                480 square feet
Three bedrooms        900 square feet
Two bedrooms          750 square feet
 
   (G)   All setbacks shall be measured from the road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 154.144) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.145 GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For corner lots, the side yard adjoining the street shall maintain a
minimum setback of not less than 50 feet.
   (B)   Accessory structures detached from the principal structure located in
the rear yard area may be constructed to not less than ten feet from the rear
lot line and ten feet from the side lot lines, or in accordance with the corner
lot setbacks.
   (C)   No building, structure, or premises shall be used, erected, or
structurally altered, except that there be, provided on the same lot as the
principal use intended to be served off-street parking spaces sufficient for
two automobiles of standard size for each dwelling unit.
   (D)   No zoning permit shall be issued and no lot shall be utilized unless
the same fronts on, or abuts, a public road, which shall serve as a right-of-
way to all abutting owners and to public vehicles and/or utilities. Access must
be provided on an improved major, secondary, or collector public street.
Fencing and parking may be located in the required side or rear setback area.
(Prior Code, § 154.145) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
MHP MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY DISTRICT
§ 154.160 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   In recognition of the growing trend toward manufactured housing and
manufactured housing parks and the need for well-located and properly-developed
areas to accommodate them, this District is designed to provide for the use
under appropriate construction and development standards, and to promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the areas, as well as
the residents of adjoining premises.
   (B)   The area zoned for these purposes should be able to accommodate the
increased traffic generated from the developments as well as the sanitary
requirements of the same.
   (C)   The area should also be suitable for residential use and should be so
located as not to impede other, more conventional residential developments in
the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 154.160) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.161 ALLOWED USES.
   Manufactured housing communities, together with accessory buildings and uses
customarily incident thereto, including a residence for the manufactured
housing community owner or operator and his or her family, but excluding any
retail sales of manufactured housing unless the same are located upon a
developed manufactured housing site, subject, however, to the following
conditions and limitations:
   (A)   All manufactured housing communities shall comply with the
requirements imposed by Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301
through 125.2350, and any and all amendments thereto, and with any and all
regulations promulgated thereunder by the State Mobile Home Commission and the
State Department of Public Health;
   (B)   Essential services; and
   (C)   Modular home communities.
(Prior Code, § 154.161) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.162 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Home occupations;
   (B)   Clubhouses;
   (C)   Laundry;
   (D)   Manager’s office;
   (E)   Parking facilities;
   (F)   Parks, playgrounds, and recreational open spaces;
   (G)   Personal pet facilities, including dog runs;
   (H)   State-licensed residential facilities are considered accessory uses;
provided that they meet the requirements of this section and Public Act 218 of
1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 through 400.737, the Adult Foster Care Facility
Licensing Act, as amended. State-licensed residential facilities include foster
family homes, foster family group homes, adult foster care family homes, and
adult foster care small-group homes;
   (I)   Storage sheds;
   (J)   Swimming pools;
   (K)   Park offices and residential quarters for the Park Manager, or his or
her agent; and
   (L)   Accessory buildings and uses incidental to a manufactured housing park
such as maintenance garage and storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 154.162) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.163 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   (A)   Essential services; and
   (B)   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act,
and exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.163) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.164 HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   The use of land and buildings in this zoning District shall meet all
regulations as in the Mobile Home Commission Rules Handbook, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 154.164) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.165 BASIS FOR APPROVAL
   While subordinate to Manufactured Housing Commission Rules, the Planning
Commission may consider the following in review and approval of an application:
   (A)   Impact on adjacent land uses and the relationship of the development
to the surrounding neighborhood;
   (B)   Location and design of driveways in relation to streets giving access
to the site and pedestrian circulation; and
   (C)   Traffic circulation and parking facilities.
(Prior Code, § 154.165) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.166 SUBMITTAL OF PLANS AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   A completed preliminary plan review application must be received 21
days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which it will be introduced.
   (B)   Ten copies of the preliminary plan and related information (documents)
shall be submitted to the village together with the zoning application.
   (C)   Upon submission of a complete set of documents, the Planning
Commission will review the plans in accordance with the conditions specified in
this chapter including location, layout, and general design. The Planning
Commission will provide a written response of approval or disapproval within 60
days following the receipt of a complete application.
   (D)   In the case of disapproval, the Planning Commission will provide the
applicant an explanation as to the reasons for disapproval. Failure of the
village to approve a complete set of documents within 60 days shall constitute
approval.
   (E)   The village shall not approve preliminary plans until all of the
following are received from the developer and are approved by the Department:
      (1)   The fee, as specified in the Act; and
      (2)   On a form prescribed by the Department, an application and required
exhibits completely and accurately filled out and executed.
   (F)   All of the following exhibits shall be submitted with the application:
      (1)   Copies of all existing and proposed easements or dedications, if
any. If easements or dedications do not exist, then the developer shall submit
a statement to that effect with the application; and
      (2)   Evidence of title to the property, such as title insurance, a deed,
a land contract, owner’s affidavit, or, if the property is not owned by the
developer, the owner’s affidavit attesting to ownership and the granting of
permission to develop the manufactured housing community project. If the
developer has an option to purchase the property or is leasing the property,
then the developer shall submit a copy of the purchase option or leasing
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 154.166) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.167 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Maximum density. The manufactured housing development shall be
developed with sites averaging 5,500 square feet per manufactured home unit.
These 5,500-square foot sites may be reduced by 20%; provided that the
individual site shall be equal to at least 4,400 square feet. For each square
foot of land gained through the reduction of a site below 5,500 square feet, at
least an equal amount of land shall be dedicated as open space. This open space
shall be in addition to that otherwise required. The overall density of a
manufactured housing community shall not exceed six units per gross acre.
   (B)   Layout. The layout of a manufactured housing community, including
other facilities intended for resident use, shall be in accordance with
acceptable planning and engineering practices and shall provide for the
convenience, health, safety, and welfare of the residents.
   (C)   Signs. There shall be a maximum of one sign that will bear only the
name of the establishment; have a maximum area of 32 square feet; may be
lighted (provided the source of light is not visible and not the flashing or
intermittent type); and be located from the street a distance equal to the
required setback. As an alternative, there may be two signs, each of which is a
maximum of 16 square feet.
   (D)   Commercial uses within the community. The resident, owner, or a
licensed dealer or broker may sell new or pre-owned manufactured homes, which
are to remain on-site in a manufactured housing community; provided that the
manufactured housing development manager permits the sale. All other commercial
uses of any kind are prohibited within the manufactured housing community.
   (E)   Utilities. All public and private utilities shall be located
underground. Hookup to public sanitary sewer systems is required in
manufactured housing communities if available within 200 feet at the time of
preliminary plan approval. If a public system is unavailable, the manufactured
housing community shall connect to a state-approved sewage system.
   (F)   Vehicular and sidewalk illumination. All vehicular and sidewalk
systems within a manufactured housing community shall be illuminated as
follows.
      (1)   Access points shall be lighted. If the public thoroughfare is
lighted, then the illuminated level shall not be more than the average
illumination level of an adjacent illuminated thoroughfare.
      (2)   At all internal road intersections and designated pedestrian
crosswalks, the minimum illumination shall be not less than 0.15 foot candles.
      (3)   Internal roads, parking bays, and sidewalks shall be illuminated at
not less than 0.05 foot candles.
      (4)   If a manufactured housing community directory is provided, then it
shall be illuminated at not less than 3.15 horizontal foot candles on any entry
on the directory.
   (G)   Required distances between homes and other structures. A home shall be
in compliance with all of the following minimum distances as measured from the
wall/support line or foundation line, whichever provides the greater distance:
      (1)   Twenty feet from any part of an attached structure of an adjacent
home that is used for living purposes;
      (2)   Ten feet from either of the following:
         (a)   A parking space on an adjacent home site; or
         (b)   An attached or detached structure, or accessory of an adjacent
home, that is not used for living purposes.
      (3)   Fifty feet from permanent manufactured housing community-owned
structures, such as either of the following:
         (a)   Clubhouses; and
         (b)   Maintenance and storage facilities.
      (4)   One hundred feet from a baseball or softball field;
      (5)   Twenty-five feet from the fence of a swimming pool;
      (6)   Attached or detached structures or accessories that are not used
for living space shall be a minimum distance of ten feet from an adjacent home
or structure;
      (7)   Any part of an accessory, such as steps, porches, supported or
unsupported awnings, decks, carports or garages, or similar structures, shall
be set back the following minimum distances:
         (a)   Ten feet from the edge of an internal road;
         (b)   Seven feet from a parking bay off a home site;
         (c)   Seven feet from a common sidewalk; and
         (d)   Twenty-five feet from a natural or human-made lake or waterway.
      (8)   A carport shall be in compliance with both of the following
setbacks if it is completely open, at a minimum, on the two long sides and the
entrance side:
         (a)   Support pillars that are installed adjacent to the edge of an
internal road shall be set back four feet or more from the edge of the internal
road, or two feet or more from the edge of a sidewalk; and
         (b)   The roof overhang shall be set back two feet or more from the
edge of the internal road.
      (9)   Steps and their attachments shall not encroach into parking areas
more than three and one-half feet;
      (10)   The length of a home site may vary; however, the minimum standards
pertaining to the distance between homes shall be complied with; and
      (11)   The dividing line between an existing manufactured housing
community and an expansion of the manufactured housing community shall be
treated as a property line for the purpose of siting homes adjacent to the
dividing line.
   (H)   Skirting. All homes must be anchored in accordance with the most
current HUD setup and installation standards. Home skirting shall be vented in
accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions. In the absence of
instructions, louvered, or similar, vents shall have a minimum of 600 square
inches of open space per 1,000 square feet of living space. A minimum of one
vent shall be placed at the front and rear of the home and two at each exposed
side. Access panels of sufficient size to allow full access to utility hookups
located beneath the home shall be installed. Skirting, if any, shall be an
exterior building material. Skirting shall be installed in a manner so as to
resist damage under normal weather conditions, including damage caused by
freezing and frost, wind, snow, and rain. A certificate of occupancy will not
be issued until the mobile home is skirted, as required by Manufactured Housing
Commission Rule 604, being Mich. Admin. Code R. 125.1604, as amended.
   (I)   Setbacks from property boundary lines. Homes, permanent buildings,
facilities, and other structures abutting a public right-of-way shall not be
located closer than 50 feet from the boundary line. If the boundary line runs
through the center of the public road, then the 50 feet shall be measured from
the road right-of-way line.
   (J)   Interior landscaping. All unpaved ground surfaces shall be covered
with grass, trees, shrubs, flowerbeds, wood chips, stones, or other suitable
ground cover capable of preventing soil erosion.
   (K)   Screening, buffering, and fencing. The landscaping shall consist of
evergreen trees or shrubs at least three feet in height, spaced so as to
provide a continuous screen at maturity. Alterative screening devices may be
utilized if they conceal the manufactured housing development as effectively as
the required landscaping described above.
   (L)   Speed limits and traffic signs.
      (1)   Speed limits on manufactured housing community internal roads shall
not exceed 15 mph, shall be posted, and shall be enforced.
      (2)   All internal roads shall be clearly marked with appropriate traffic
signs. Manufactured housing community egress roads shall be clearly marked with
a regulation stop sign at the point of intersection with a public road.
      (3)   Internal roads shall be named and identified by signs located at
all internal road intersections.
      (4)   Signs bearing the words “children playing” shall be appropriately
located on all internal roads adjacent to recreational and playground areas.
   (M)   Designated open space requirements. A manufactured housing community
that contains 50 or more home sites which are constructed according to a
“permit to construct” issued under the Act shall have not less than 2% of the
manufactured housing community’s gross acreage dedicated to designated open
space, and not less than 25,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.167) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.168 FINAL CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND DRAWINGS.
   (A)   An architect or engineer who is licensed to practice in this state
shall prepare the drawings that constitute the plans.
   (B)   More than one architect or engineer licensed in this state may prepare
different segments of the same manufactured housing community construction
plans.
   (C)   Submissions for review shall be 24-inch by 36-inch reproductions of
original drawings.
   (D)   Each sheet shall contain the name of the manufactured housing
community and the name and address of the firm responsible for the preparation
of the sheet.
   (E)   Each sheet shall bear a seal and signature of the architect or
engineer responsible for the preparation of the sheet.
   (F)   Optional improvements:
      (1)   Optional improvements such as swimming pools, tennis and basketball
courts, and the like may be considered as fulfilling part of the entire total
designated open space requirement; and
      (2)   Optional improvements shall be in compliance with current state or
local building standards pertinent to construction, including obtaining the
appropriate state or local permits pertinent to the facility or structure being
constructed.
(Prior Code, § 154.168) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.169 OTHER REQUIREMENTS
   No manufactured housing park shall contain less than ten acres in total lot
area.
(Prior Code, § 154.169) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.170 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   All manufactured housing parks to be located within the village shall be
subject to the site plan review provisions of this chapter and subject to the
following special provisions.
   (A)   Each site shall be provided with electrical connections, sewer and
water connections, and off-street parking. Each mobile home shall utilize
common water supply and sewage treatment facilities. The site area shall not
include any common use areas, such as internal drives, and open space areas.
Water and sewer connections shall be made to a municipal system, if, and when,
available.
   (B)   Mobile homes shall be located on each site so that there shall be at
least 20 feet of clearance between mobile homes. No mobile home shall be
located closer than ten feet from internal drives.
   (C)   Walkways not less than 30 inches wide shall be provided from sites and
service buildings, and shall be of hard surface.
   (D)   Internal drives shall be paved of bituminous or concrete surface and
shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide.
   (E)   All drives and walkways within the park shall be lighted at night. On-
site lighting shall not be directed toward adjoining properties.
   (F)   Each site shall be provided with two paved parking spaces, that one of
these may be located in a guest parking area of the park.
   (G)   Adequately-screened refuse and garbage collection must be provided on
park property.
   (H)   Service buildings shall be of permanent construction, conveniently
located, well lighted, ventilated, and maintained in a sanitary manner.
   (I)   Fire extinguishers, fire standards, and precautions acceptable to the
Township Fire Chief and pertinent state statutes shall be met.
   (J)   Open space and recreation areas shall be dedicated for not less than
10% of the gross area of the park, generally provided in a central location.
The open space and/or recreation area may include space for community buildings
and community-use facilities, such as adult recreation and child play areas,
swimming pools, and the like. The area shall be useable open space and/or
recreation area, and shall not include any part of individual “sites.”
(Prior Code, § 154.170) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.171 USE AND LOCATION.
   The District may utilize manufactured housing communities that are licensed
by the state under Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through
125.2350, and subject to the additional provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Restrictions. The uses of this District are restricted to long term
and/or permanent mobile home occupancy and are not to be construed to be a park
for travel trailers or transients.
   (B)   Traffic conditions. A manufactured housing park shall not create
traffic hazards or conflict with existing traffic patterns or those official
traffic arteries or patterns proposed for future development by the village or
state. A manufactured housing community shall not generate traffic through
minor residential street systems, but shall provide direct access to major
secondary or collector streets.
   (C)   Community facilities. A manufactured housing community shall be as
located so to allow for the feasible connection to any existing or proposed
future municipal water, sanitary, sewer, or storm drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 154.171) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.185 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intention of this zoning district to encourage commercial
growth in appropriate areas, separated from residential uses as much as
possible. Activities encouraged in the C-1 Commercial Zoning District include
general retail stores and services, restaurants, local government services,
specialty shops, and professional offices. This area should serve as the major
commercial service area of the village, maintaining the character of the
Central Business District.
   (B)   The Commercial District should encourage the development of
coordinated, concentrated, commercial nodes in an area that allows the
development of commercial uses, and encourages coordinated multiple-use
commercial developments. The C-1 Commercial Zoning District serves the entire
village and nearby residential areas and the traveling public, thus promoting
and broadening the economic base of the village. The general goal for the
Central Business District is to effectively enhance the overall image and
character of the area by financing critical public improvements.
   (C)   Commercial development requires a variety of services and can result
in traffic and parking demands and the need to introduce public parking,
improve street lighting, and eventually provide water and sewer services. It is
intended that the existence of commercial development will attract additional
commercial activities and that by consolidating commercial development, public
services can be provided more economically, and land use conflicts can be
minimized.
(Prior Code, § 154.185) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.186 USES ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
   Land and/or buildings in this District may be used for the following
purposes by right:
   (A)   Adult uses;
   (B)   Appliance stores;
   (C)   Art and photo studios;
   (D)   Auto convenience marts;
   (E)   Banks;
   (F)   Book stores;
   (G)   Clinics and medical facilities;
   (H)   Clothing stores;
   (I)   Copy shops;
   (J)   Drug stores;
   (K)   Florists;
   (L)   Furniture stores;
   (M)   Gift shops;
   (N)   Grocery and food markets;
   (O)   Hardware stores;
   (P)   Health and physical fitness salons;
   (Q)   Health services clinics;
   (R)   Internet service providers, web search portals, and data processing
services;
   (S)   Jewelers;
   (T)   Museums and art galleries;
   (U)   Offices for personal care services, such as barber and beauty shops;
   (V)   Sales and service of electronic products;
   (W)   Restaurants;
   (X)   Retail bakeries;
   (Y)   Retailers of floor coverings;
   (Z)   Shoe stores;
   (AA)   Skating rinks;
   (BB)   Taverns; and
   (CC)   Theaters.
(Prior Code, § 154.186) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.187 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Uses and activities customarily incidental to the above permitted uses
include:
   (A)   Automated teller machines;
   (B)   Landscaping;
   (C)   Loading and delivery areas;
   (D)   Parking lots (including municipal and private facilities) not directly
associated with a principal use;
   (E)   Refuse storage facilities;
   (F)   Signs; and
   (G)   Other uses and structures customarily incidental to any permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 154.187) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.188 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted when applicable site plan review
standards and requirements are met:
   (A)   Automobile service stations;
   (B)   Automobile car washes;
   (C)   Building supply and equipment establishments;
   (D)   Childcare centers;
   (E)   Coin-operated laundries, dry cleaning pick-up stations, and dry
cleaners;
   (F)   Drive-through or drive-in businesses, including restaurants, banks,
and similar uses;
   (G)   Fraternal and non-profit organizations;
   (H)   Government services;
   (I)   Institutional uses;
   (J)   Institutional care facilities;
   (K)   Indoor commercial recreation facilities such as theaters, bowling
alleys, skating rinks, or similar uses;
   (L)   Coffee kiosks;
   (M)   Multiple uses of buildings;
   (N)   Radio and television broadcasting studios without communications
towers; and
   (O)   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act,
and exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.188) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.189 DISTRICT HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   Principal uses, accessory uses, and special uses in the C-1 Zoning District
shall meet all applicable regulations and will be subject to review by the
Planning Commission prior to approval and be subject to off-street parking and
loading regulations as specified in this chapter. Approval for any use
permitted in this District shall be obtained by following the site plan review
procedures and conditions:
   (A)   Density: N/A;
   (B)   Minimum lot size: N/A;
   (C)   Minimum lot width: N/A;
   (D)   Structure height: 40 feet;
   (E)   Dwelling size: N/A; and
   (F)   Dwelling width: N/A.
   (G)   Setbacks:
 
Type  Size
Front 0 feet*
Rear  15 feet
Side  0 feet
*When the actual building setback is different than the required setback, the
setback may be established to comply with the average of the existing
buildings in the block. Front setbacks must be compatible with the setbacks
already established in the C-1 District. They are intended to be zero
setbacks. However, where the setback has not been established or has been
established at a distance greater than zero, the Planning Commission may
require a front setback greater than zero.
 
(Prior Code, § 154.189) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.190 GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A site plan of the proposed use shall be presented to and approved by
the Planning Commission before a zoning permit is issued for the proposed use.
The site plan shall meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Accessory buildings are not allowed except as approved on the site
plan
   (C)   No structure shall be located closer than 30 feet from any residential
district. Landscaping shall be maintained as a visual and audible buffer to all
surrounding residential districts.
   (D)   Adequate loading areas shall be provided so that all vehicles loading,
maneuvering, or unloading are completely off the public ways.
   (E)   Adequate access to a public streets shall be provided for each parking
and loading area.
   (F)   All off-street parking areas and loading areas shall be graded and
surfaced so as to be dust-free and properly drained. Parking areas for more
than ten vehicles shall have the aisles and spaces clearly marked.
   (G)   All loading and parking areas shall be so designed and constructed
that all vehicles using such areas shall, with ease of movement and ample space
for maneuvering, enter, and exit from the areas in a forward movement.
   (H)   All development plans for construction within this C-1 Commercial
District shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to the
issuance of any zoning permits. Planning Commission review and approval shall
include, but not be limited to, such considerations as: fire-safety; ingress
and egress; internal traffic circulation; location and design of structures;
location of off-street parking and loading; landscaping; sign location and
designs; proposed improvements and proposed water supply; and sewage and trash
disposal and drainage. The applicant shall submit adequate plans to allow
detailed review of each of the above elements by the Planning Commission.
   (I)   In approving proposed developments, the Planning Commission shall
find:
      (1)   Public health and safety issues have been adequately provided for
in the development plans;
      (2)   A maximum effort is being made to coordinate proposed developments
with surrounding parcels to coordinate access and egress drives, internal
traffic circulation, and design features; and
      (3)   Proposed developments do not cause nuisances of noise, vibrations,
smoke, dust, dirt, offensive odors, unusual traffic generation, effluents, or
uncontrolled drainage.
(Prior Code, § 154.190) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
L-I LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.205 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This District is designed for smaller-scale manufacturing, assembling, and
fabricating businesses and related activities that cause a minimum of adverse
effects beyond the boundaries of the site upon which they are located.
(Prior Code, § 154.205) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.206 USES ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Tool, die, gauge, and machine shops; and
   (B)   Operations for the servicing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of
articles or merchandise which do not emanate noise, smoke, odors, dust, dirt,
noxious gases, glare, heat, vibrations, or psychological ill effects which
would be a nuisance or annoyance to owners or occupants of surrounding premises
and that are wholly contained within fully-enclosed buildings except for the
following permissible outdoor activities:
      (1)   Outdoor storage in the rear yard area must not exceed 50% of the
square foot area of the principal building, be screened from adjoining premises
of the non-industrial zoning district and from public streets by a solid fence,
wall, or natural screening adequate for the purpose; and
      (2)   Delivery operations to and from the business.
(Prior Code, § 154.206) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.207 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading;
   (B)   Signs; and
   (C)   Outdoor storage.
(Prior Code, § 154.207) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.208 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act, and
exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.208) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.209 HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   Approval for any use permitted in this District shall be obtained by
following the site plan review procedures and conditions:
   (A)   Density: N/A;
   (B)   Minimum lot size: N/A;
   (C)   Setbacks:
 
Type  Size
Front 30 feet
Rear  30 feet
Side  30 feet
 
   (D)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet; and
   (E)   Structure height: 30 feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.209) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.210 GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may establish standards regulating the
location or type of any building or structure so as to reduce or eliminate
adverse effects, impacts, or nuisances outside the Industrial District by
generating noise, vibration, particulates, noxious gases, toxic substances,
effluents, or unusual traffic.
   (B)   The following standards shall apply to all industrial uses.
      (1)   Buffer. All industrial buildings must be situated at least 200 feet
from any other nonindustrial structure. A landscape buffer 30 feet in depth
shall be provided around the entire periphery of the industrial parcel.
      (2)   Signs. There may be one sign not to exceed eight feet by 16 feet
for each industrial lot, confined to the lot. One directory may be placed
inside the entrance to the industrial park listing firms and their location
within the park.
      (3)   Access. Roadways serving as access to the industry shall be hard
surfaced and 66 feet in width. Any cul-de-sac shall contain a turning radius of
60 feet. Industrial developments should provide the following minimum
improvements:
         (a)   All-weather paved streets (sidewalks optional);
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking (for employees, visitors,
deliveries, and the like);
         (c)   Adequate, well-placed signs and landscaping for streets,
sidewalks, and parking areas, including perimeter screening from adjacent non-
residential uses;
         (d)   Appropriate stormwater management facilities and structures;
         (e)   Provision of adequate public sanitary sewer and water (when
available);
         (f)   Controlled traffic access to arterials and intersections and
good internal circulation; and
         (g)   On-site docking and loading facilities and turning areas for
shipping and receiving.
(Prior Code, § 154.210) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.211 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Design plans and/or elevations indicating exterior appearance and
construction materials of all buildings or structures shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission prior to the application for a zoning permit.
   (B)   The Planning Commission approval or denial shall be given within 60
days of the request.
(Prior Code, § 154.211) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.212 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All development plans for construction shall be reviewed and approved
by the Planning Commission prior to the issuance of any zoning permits.
Planning Commission review and approval shall include, but not be limited to,
such considerations as: fire safety; ingress and egress; internal traffic
circulation; location and design of structures; location of off-street parking
and loading; landscaping; sign location; proposed improvements; proposed water
supply; sewage and trash disposal; and drainage plans.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit adequate plans to allow detailed review of
each of the above elements by the Planning Commission. In approving proposed
developments, the Planning Commission shall find:
      (1)   Public health and safety has been adequately provided for in the
development plans;
      (2)   A maximum effort is being made to coordinate the proposed
developments with surrounding parcels including efforts, whenever possible, to
coordinate ingress and egress drives, internal traffic circulation, and design
features; and
      (3)   The proposed development maximizes functional compatibility with
surrounding parcels and areas.
(Prior Code, § 154.212) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.213 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses shall be prohibited in the Light Industrial District:
   (A)   Residential buildings and structures, schools, hospitals, clinics, or
other institutions for human care or habitation, except where incidental to a
permitted principal use; and
   (B)   All uses determined by the Planning Commission to be noxious, odorous,
unsafe, hazardous, and offensive to the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 154.213) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
IND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 154.225 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   To provide an environment for the establishment of industrial
activities which are appropriate to this area, and which contribute to the
economic prosperity of the village, by regulating the physical characteristics
of industrial uses, and the services pertaining thereto, and by prohibiting
incompatible uses and activities.
   (B)   (1)   Industrial areas can be desirable components of the village
without being undesirable neighbors. Industrial uses can also be made
compatible with adjacent non-industrial land uses by controlling the potential
off-site impacts, such as noise, odors, light, and glare.
      (2)   This can be accomplished through pollution-control measures,
setbacks, buffer yards, fencing, landscaping, and other site-specific
techniques.
   (C)   (1)   Landscaping and comprehensive design can make them attractive
working environments and can provide a pleasing appearance compatible with
adjacent, less intensive uses.
      (2)   Well-planned industrial areas can be attractive locations for
research and development firms and light industrial activities.
(Prior Code, § 154.230) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.226 USES ALLOWED BY RIGHT.
   (A)   Manufacturing and repair of electric or neon signs, lights, sheet
metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, and the
like;
   (B)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical and communication equipment or
components, and appliances, electronic instruments and devices, radios,
televisions, and phonographs;
   (C)   Manufacture or assembly of engineering or scientific instruments,
medical and optical supplies, photographic equipment, and watches and clocks;
   (D)   Manufacture or assembly of jewelry, musical instruments, toys,
sporting goods, and office and art supplies;
   (E)   Manufacture or assembly of commercial and industrial refrigeration and
freezer equipment;
   (F)   Ice manufacturing;
   (G)   Manufacture or assembly of office and computer machines;
   (H)   Manufacture of steel industrial and crane counterweights;
   (I)   Office uses whose operation is related to other industrial operations;
   (J)   Printing and publishing industries;
   (K)   Tool, die, gauge, and machine shops; and
   (L)   Warehouses and distribution facilities.
(Prior Code, § 154.231) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.227 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Uses and activities customarily incidental to the above-permitted uses,
including:
   (A)   Landscaping;
   (B)   Loading and delivery areas,
   (C)   Parking areas
   (D)   Refuse storage facilities; and
   (E)   Signs.
(Prior Code, § 154.232) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.228 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   (A)   Multiple uses of buildings; and
   (B)   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm Act,
and exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and management
practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.233) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.229 DISTRICT HEIGHT, AREA, AND DIMENSION REGULATIONS.
   Approval for any use permitted in this District shall be obtained by
following the site plan review procedures and conditions:
   (A)   Density: N/A;
   (B)   Minimum lot size: N/A;
   (C)   Setbacks:
 
Type  Size
Front 30 feet
Rear  30 feet
Side  30 feet
 
   (D)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet; and
   (E)   Structure height: 40 feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.234) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.230 GENERAL DISTRICT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The Planning Commission may establish standards regulating the location or
type of any building or structure so as to reduce or eliminate adverse effects,
impacts, or nuisances outside the Industrial District from noise, vibration,
particulates, noxious gases, toxic substances, effluents, or unusual traffic.
The following standards shall apply to all industrial uses.
   (A)   Buffer. All industrial buildings must be situated at least 200 feet
from any other nonindustrial structure. A landscape buffer 30 feet in depth
shall be provided around the entire periphery of the industrial parcel.
   (B)   Signs. There may be one sign not to exceed eight feet by 16 feet for
each industrial lot, confined to said lot. One directory may be placed inside
the entrance to the industrial park listing firms and their location within the
park.
   (C)   Access.
      (1)   Roadways serving as access to the industry shall be hard surfaced
and 100 feet in width. Any cul-de-sac shall contain a turning radius of 60
feet.
      (2)   Industrial developments should provide the following minimum
improvements:
         (a)   All-weather paved streets (sidewalks optional);
         (b)   Adequate off-street parking (for employees, visitors,
deliveries, and the like);
         (c)   Adequate, well-placed signs and landscaping for streets,
sidewalks, and parking areas, including perimeter screening from adjacent non-
residential uses;
         (d)   Appropriate stormwater management facilities and structures;
         (e)   Provision of adequate public sanitary sewer and water (when
available);
         (f)   Controlled traffic access to arterials, intersections, and good
internal circulation; and
         (g)   On-site docking and loading facilities and turning areas for
shipping and receiving.
(Prior Code, § 154.235) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.231 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Design plans and/or elevations indicating exterior appearance and
construction materials of all buildings or structures shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission prior to the application for a zoning permit.
   (B)   The Planning Commission approval or denial shall be given within 60
days of the request.
(Prior Code, § 154.236) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.232 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All development plans for construction within the Industrial District
shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to the issuance
of any zoning permits.
   (B)   Planning Commission review and approval shall include, but not be
limited to, such considerations as:
      (1)   Fire safety;
      (2)   Ingress and egress;
      (3)   Internal traffic circulation;
      (4)   Location and design of structures;
      (5)   Location of off-street parking and loading;
      (6)   Landscaping;
      (7)   Sign location;
      (8)   Proposed improvements and water supply;
      (9)   Sewage and trash disposal; and
      (10)   Drainage plans.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit adequate plans to allow detailed review of
each of the above elements by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   In approving proposed developments, the Planning Commission shall
find:
      (1)   Public health and safety has been adequately provided for in the
development plans;
      (2)   A maximum effort is being made to coordinate the proposed
developments with surrounding parcels to coordinate ingress and egress drives,
internal traffic circulation, and design features; and
      (3)   The proposed development maximizes functional compatibility with
surrounding parcels and areas.
(Prior Code, § 154.237) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.233 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses shall be prohibited in the Industrial District:
   (A)   Residential buildings and structures, schools, hospitals, clinics, or
other institutions for human care or habitation, except where incidental to a
permitted principal use, or nonconforming use as defined in this chapter; and
   (B)   All uses prohibited by the Planning Commission as being noxious,
odorous, unsafe, hazardous, and offensive to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 154.238) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
R-PD RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 154.245 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter provides enabling authority and standards for the
submission, review, and approval of applications for Planned Unit Developments.
It is the intent of this subchapter to authorize the consideration and use of
Planned Unit Development regulations for the following purposes:
      (1)   To encourage the use of land in accordance with its character and
adaptability;
      (2)   To promote the conservation of natural features and resources;
      (3)   To encourage innovation in land use planning and development;
      (4)   To promote the enhancement of housing, employment, shopping,
traffic circulation, and recreational opportunities for the people of the
village;
      (5)   To promote and ensure greater compatibility of design and use
between neighboring properties; and
      (6)   To provide for the regulation of land uses not otherwise authorized
within this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended as a device for
ignoring the Zoning Ordinance or the Master Plan upon which it has been based.
To that end, provisions of this subchapter are intended to result in land use
development substantially consistent with the underlying zoning.
   (C)   (1)   The granting of a Planned Unit Development rezoning application
shall require an amendment of the Zoning Ordinance and the Zoning Map
constituting a part of this subchapter.
      (2)   An approval granted under this subchapter, including all aspects of
the final site development plan and conditions imposed, shall constitute an
inseparable part of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2016)
§ 154.246 PERMITTED USES.
   The following specific uses, as well as all other uses permitted in any
zoning district by this subchapter and other special uses not so permitted, may
be authorized as Planned Unit Developments:
   (A)   Camps and campgrounds;
   (B)   Cemeteries;
   (C)   Congregate adult living facilities;
   (D)   Community swimming pools and other recreation facilities;
   (E)   Conference and convention facilities;
   (F)   Golf courses, country clubs, and clubhouses;
   (G)   Hotels and motels, bed and breakfast facilities, and similar rental
accommodations;
   (H)   Hospitals and clinics;
   (I)   Industrial parks and/or research parks; provided, however, said parks
shall not be located in an underlying residential district;
   (J)   State-licensed group homes and nursing homes;
   (K)   Marinas;
   (L)   Mobile home parks;
   (M)   Offices and office parks;
   (N)   Philanthropic institutions;
   (O)   Private clubs;
   (P)   Public and private schools and colleges;
   (Q)   Resorts and ranches, including motels, restaurants, and similar
associated uses;
   (R)   Shopping centers; and
   (S)   Single-family, two-family, and multi-family dwellings and residential
condominiums.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2016)
§ 154.247 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum area. In order to be zoned for a PUD, the proposed PUD must
contain a contiguous land area of at least ten acres in size. Land traversed by
a dedicated public right-of-way shall be considered contiguous.
   (B)   Maximum density. The maximum density of any PUD shall not exceed the
permitted densities of the underlying zoning district by more than one and one-
half times. Densities shall be based on the gross area of the PUD. Where the
underlying zoning districts have different density requirements, the
proportional average shall be calculated and applied to the PUD.
   (C)   Minimum standards; underlying district and waiver. Unless specifically
waived by the Village Board upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
all regulations of the underlying zoning district prior to the PUD request
relative to lot size, lot width, yard area, structure height, setback,
accessory uses, signs, parking and loading, landscaping, general provisions,
and other applicable regulations shall apply, except that in projects within an
underlying residential district which contain mixed uses, the most restrictive
district regulations within this subchapter under which each non-residential
use would otherwise be permitted shall apply. Departures shall only be waived
if it is demonstrated by the applicant that there are features or planning
mechanisms designed into the project which would achieve the objectives of each
of the regulations from which a departure is being requested.
   (D)   Design considerations. A proposed PUD shall take into account the
following specific design considerations, as they are necessary to ensure
compliance with all applicable regulations and to ensure the compliance of the
project with adjoining properties and the general area where the property is
located:
      (1)   Ingress and egress to property and proposed buildings and
structures thereon with particular reference to vehicle and pedestrian safety
and convenience, traffic flow, and control and access in case of fire or
catastrophe;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading where required, with particular
reference to impacts of noise, glare, or odor on each use in the proposed PUD
and adjacent land uses;
      (3)   Refuse and service areas;
      (4)   Utilities, with reference to locations, availability, and
compatibility;
      (5)   Screening and buffering, with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
      (6)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
adjoining properties, and properties, in the proposed PUD; and
      (7)   Required yards and other open spaces;
         (a)   General compatibility with adjoining properties, and properties,
in the proposed PUD; and
         (b)   The purposes of this subchapter.
   (E)   Review standards. In making its recommendations or approvals, the
Planning Commission and Village Council shall find that the proposed PUD meets
the intent of the PUD District and the following standards.
      (1)   Granting of the PUD rezoning will result in a recognizable and
substantial benefit to the ultimate users of the project and to the community
where such benefit would otherwise be unfeasible, or unlikely to be achieved.
      (2)   In relation to underlying zoning, the proposed type and density of
use shall not result in a material increase in the need for public services,
facilities, and utilities, and shall not place a material burden upon the
subject or surrounding land or property owners and occupants of the natural
environment.
      (3)   The proposed development shall be compatible with the Master Plan
of the village, and shall be consistent with the intent and spirit of this
subchapter.
      (4)   The PUD shall not diminish the opportunity for surrounding property
owners to develop and use their property as zoned.
      (5)   The proposed development shall be under single ownership or control
such that there is a single person or entity having responsibility for
completing the project in conformity with this subchapter. This provision shall
not prohibit a transfer of ownership or control upon due notice to the Building
Inspector.
      (6)   All zoning pursuant to this subchapter shall give due consideration
to maintenance of reasonable conditions regarding the emission and transmission
of injurious or obnoxious noise, vibrations, gas, smoke, dust, dirt, litter,
odor, light glare, traffic congestion, ease of police and fire protection,
drainage, lateral land support, blighting influence, effect on surrounding
property values, light and air, overcrowding of persons, sanitation, surfaced
and groundwater quality, water supply and sewage disposal, general appearance
and character of the area, and other similar considerations which have an
effect on the achievement of the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2016)
§ 154.248 APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of an application for PUD, the applicant shall
meet with the Building Inspector and such consultants as deemed appropriate.
The applicant shall present at such pre-application conference, or conferences,
a sketch plan of the PUD, and the following information:
      (1)   A legal description of the property in question;
      (2)   The total number of acres to be included in the project;
      (3)   A statement of the approximate number of residential units and/or
the approximate number, type, and square footage of non-residential units;
      (4)   The approximate number of acres to be occupied and/or devoted to or
by each type of use;
      (5)   Departures from the minimum underlying zoning regulations which may
be requested;
      (6)   The number of acres to be preserved as open space or recreation
space; and
      (7)   All known natural resources and natural features.
   (B)   Applicants for PUD approval shall prepare and submit to the Building
Inspector nine copies of a preliminary site plan for the PUD. The Building
Inspector shall transmit a copy of this plan to the Planning Commission and the
Village Board. This plan shall set forth, in general terms, the proposed uses
to be developed in the PUD and the following specific information:
      (1)   The legal description of the land included in the PUD;
      (2)   A small scale location sketch of properties, streets, and uses
within 300 feet of the PUD;
      (3)   A map or drawing to scale showing the conceptual layout and any
existing or proposed arrangements of:
         (a)   General uses;
         (b)   Streets;
         (c)   Lots and buildings;
         (d)   Access points;
         (e)   Other transportation arrangements;
         (f)   Buffer strips; and
         (g)   Recreation and open space areas.
      (4)   A narrative describing:
         (a)   The overall objectives of the PUD;
         (b)   Number of acres allocated to each use;
         (c)   Gross densities;
         (d)   Proposed method of providing sewer and water service and other
public and private utilities;
         (e)   Proposed method of providing storm drainage; and
         (f)   Phasing plan, if the final site plan approved will be developed
in phases.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary site plan and
make recommendations to the applicant based on the requirements of this
subchapter and specific site-related considerations.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall transmit its recommendations
pertaining to the preliminary site plan along with any recommended changes or
modifications thereof to the applicant.
      (2)   A copy of the Planning Commission’s recommendations shall be
transmitted to the Village Board. In the course of its consideration of the
preliminary site plan, the Planning Commission shall call a public hearing and
give such notice as required for any zoning amendments.
      (3)   After receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
Village Board shall either approve, deny, or approve with conditions the PUD
application and preliminary site development plan site plan in accordance with
this subchapter and the standards for approval and conditions for a PUD as
contained herein.
      (4)   A building permit shall not be issued until Planning Commission
approval of the PUD final site development plan.
      (5)   Where provisions of the Land Division Act (formerly known as the
Subdivision Control Act), Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, and/or the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, shall apply, the applicant
shall thereafter submit the information and plans as may be required by Public
Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, or Public Act 59 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, and all other local procedures
or regulations pertaining to platting approval.
   (D)   (1)   The PUD amendment including the preliminary site development
plan, as approved, and narrative, and all conditions imposed, if any, shall
constitute the land use authorization for the property.
      (2)   All improvements and uses shall be in conformity with this
amendment, except as otherwise permitted by this subchapter. The applicant
shall record an affidavit with the County Register of Deeds, which shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Date of approval of the PUD by the Village Board;
         (b)   Legal description of the property; and
         (c)   A statement that the property will be developed in accordance
with the approved PUD final site development plan and any conditions imposed by
the Village Board or Planning Commission unless an amendment thereto is duly
approved by the village upon the request and/or approval of the applicant or
applicant’s transferees and/or assigns.
   (E)   A certified copy of the affidavit shall be provided to the village.
      (1)   After receiving the PUD rezoning and preliminary site plan approval
from the Village Board, the applicant shall have one year to submit a final
site development plan for review and approval to the Planning Commission prior
to starting any construction. This one-year limit shall apply to only the first
phase or stage of development and may be extended for a period of one
additional year by the Planning Commission upon finding that the PUD
development has encountered unforeseen difficulties and is not ready to
proceed.
      (2)   The final site development plan shall contain the same information
required for the preliminary site development plan and shall contain such other
information, including that listed below, unless otherwise instructed by the
Planning Commission:
         (a)   Location and phasing of all buildings and structures in the PUD;
         (b)   Location and size of all water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer
lines serving the development;
         (c)   Proposed contour lines at not greater than five-foot intervals,
unless otherwise stated;
         (d)   Proposed landscaping, including type, number, and size of trees
and shrubs;
         (e)   Location of signs and exterior lighting;
         (f)   Location of sidewalks, footpaths, or other pedestrian walkways;
         (g)   Distance of all buildings from the lot lines, rights-of-way, and
other principal buildings;
         (h)   Exterior architectural drawings noting building materials,
height and area of buildings, and accessory structures; and
         (i)   Next proposed phases of the project (timing and physical
extent).
   (F)   Prior to setting the public hearing, the applicant shall submit all
required and requested information to the village. Once complete, the Building
Inspector shall transmit the complete application to the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission shall determine a date for, and hold a public hearing
for, consideration of the PUD final site development plan. Notice shall be
given in accordance with special use application.
   (G)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall either
approve, deny, or approve with conditions the final site plan, in writing. In
making its decision, the Planning Commission shall find that the proposed PUD
meets the intent of the PUD District and the standards identified above.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2016)
§ 154.249 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   (1)   In approving a permit for a PUD, the Village Board may, in
addition to other matters, require that all, or any part of, the improvements
and other elements of the PUD be constructed and completed prior to the
issuance of an occupancy permit.
      (2)   In the event that these buildings, improvements, or other elements
are partially completed to a point where occupancy will not impair the health,
safety, and general welfare of all parties concerned, then the Building
Inspector may, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter relating to
authorization of a special use, grant an occupancy permit on such reasonable
conditions relating to completion as the Building Inspector shall establish.
The Building Inspector may, in his or her discretion, refer any such decision
concerning the conditional occupancy permit to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with the Zoning Ordinance and any conditions
imposed hereunder, the Village Board may, in granting approval of a PUD,
require a performance guarantee, to consist of a cash deposit, certified check,
irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety bond acceptable to the village
covering the estimated cost of improvements associated with the PUD, to be
deposited with the Village Clerk to ensure faithful completion of the
improvements.
      (1)   This performance guarantee shall be deposited at the time of the
issuance of the permit authorizing the PUD. If the performance guarantee is a
cash deposit, it shall be rebated periodically by the Planning Commission on
application by the depositor in reasonable proportion to the ratio of the work
completed on the required improvements.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the word IMPROVEMENTS shall mean
those features and actions associated with the PUD which are considered
necessary by the Village Board to protect natural resources, and/or the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the village and future users or
inhabitants of the proposed PUD and the area surrounding the PUD, including
roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks, screening, and drainage. Improvements
do not include the entire PUD.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2016)
§ 154.250 MODIFICATION OF PUD.
   (A)   (1)   Minor changes to a PUD final site development plan may be
approved by mutual agreement of the applicants or successors in interest and
the Planning Commission, provided the changes comply with all applicable
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance and all other village regulations.
      (2)   Minor changes include all matters that were approved by the
Planning Commission in the final development plan that were not part of the
preliminary development plan, that the location of structures, roads, parking
areas, signs, lighting, and driveways may be moved; provided they are in the
same general location as approved in the preliminary site development plan as
determined by the Planning Commission, and building size that does not exceed
5,000 square feet, or 5% of the gross floor area, whichever is smaller.
   (B)   A major change to an approved PUD shall comply with the original
approval procedures for a PUD. Major changes include, but are not limited to:
increase in density or number of dwelling units; increase in land area or
building size; except as noted above; or addition of other uses not authorized
by the original PUD approval.
(Ord. passed 3-15-2016)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.265 PARKING SPACES.
   The area required for parking one automobile, in this chapter, is held to be
an area ten feet wide and 20 feet long, not including drive or passageways.
(Prior Code, § 154.250) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.266 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In all districts, adequate loading areas shall be provided so that all
vehicles loading, maneuvering, or unloading are completely off the public ways.
(Prior Code, § 154.251) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.267 HANDICAPPED PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Parking requirements of the American Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., shall be met.
(Prior Code, § 154.252) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.268 INGRESS AND EGRESS OF SERVICE VEHICLES AND AUTOMOBILES.
   All loading and parking areas shall be so constructed and designed that all
vehicles using such areas shall, with ease of movement and ample space for
maneuvering, enter, and exit from the areas in a forward movement.
(Prior Code, § 154.253) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.269 INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT.
   There shall be one parking space for each 300 square feet of floor space for
light-industry uses, and one parking space for each 1,000 square feet of floor
space for heavy-industry uses.
(Prior Code, § 154.254) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.270 PARKING REQUIREMENTS OFF-STREET.
   (A)   In all districts, and in connection with every use or building
erected, enlarged, extended, or increased, there shall be off-street parking
provided for vehicles.
   (B)   Parking areas for uses not specified in the table below will provide
one space for every 200 square feet of store space for stores having a floor
space of less than 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   For stores having a floor space of 5,000 square feet or more, there
shall be 25 parking spaces, plus one space for every additional 150 square feet
of floor space.
   (D)   Design standards for layout of parking lots shall conform to village
design standards pertaining to parking lots and the like.
Miscellaneous Uses Required Number of Parking Spaces
Miscellaneous Uses                 Required Number of Parking Spaces
Business and professional services One space per 300 square feet
Churches, theaters, funeral homes  One space for each three seats
Clubs, lodges                      One space for each 150 square feet
Commercial recreation facilities   One space per 100 square feet
Convenience stores                 One space per 200 square feet
Dwelling units                     One space per unit
Government buildings               One space per 400 square feet
Hospitals, nursing homes           3/4 space for each bed
Manufacturing                      One space per 500 square feet
Medical and dental offices         Three spaces plus one space for each 200
                                   square feet
Motels                             1 and 1/4 space per unit
Museums and libraries              One space per 300 square feet
Office buildings and banks         One space per 400 square feet
Personal services and repairs      One space per 200 square feet
Public utility buildings           One space per 300 square feet
Restaurants                        One space per 100 square feet
Retail stores                      One space per 200 square feet
Schools, theaters, auditoriums     One space per 500 square feet
Warehouses                         One space per 1,000 square feet
Wholesale businesses               One space per 700 square feet
 
(Prior Code, § 154.255) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.271 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Parking may not occupy the initial 25 feet of any yard adjoining a
road or street right-of-way, but may occupy the initial 25 feet of any yard not
adjoining the road or street right-of way.
   (B)   Landscaping shall be maintained as a visual and audible buffer to all
surrounding residential districts.
   (C)   Adequate access to a public street shall be provided for each parking
and loading area.
      (1)   All off-street parking areas and loading areas shall be graded and
surfaced so as to be dust- free and properly drained.
      (2)   Parking areas for more than ten vehicles shall have the aisles and
spaces clearly marked.
      (3)   All loading and parking areas shall be so designed and constructed
that all vehicles using those areas shall, with ease of movement and ample
space for maneuvering, enter, and exit from those areas in a forward movement.
      (4)   All site plans for construction of loading and parking areas shall
be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission. Planning Commission review
shall include, but not be limited to, such considerations as: fire-safety,
ingress and egress, internal traffic circulation, location and design of
parking and loading, landscaping, sign location and designs, and other proposed
improvements such as lighting and drainage. The applicant shall submit adequate
plans to allow detailed review of each of the above elements.
(Prior Code, § 154.256) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 154.285 USES REQUIRING SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   The following buildings, structures, and uses require site plan approval by
the Planning Commission:
   (A)   All special land uses;
   (B)   All commercial or industrial uses;
   (C)   Multi-family residential uses;
   (D)   Parking facilities containing ten or more parking spaces;
   (E)   Parks and recreational areas; and
   (F)   Subdivisions and site condominiums.
(Prior Code, § 154.257) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.286 PRELIMINARY PLAN REVIEW.
   Preliminary plan review is voluntary and not mandatory. Preliminary sketches
of proposed site and development plans may be submitted for review prior to
final site plan submittal. The purpose of this procedure is to allow discussion
between the applicant and the village, and to better inform the applicant of
the acceptability of the proposed plan prior to incurring extensive engineering
and other costs that might be necessary for final site plan approval. These
plans shall include the following:
   (A)   Legal description of the property;
   (B)   Small-scale sketch of properties, streets, and use of land within 300
feet of the area;
   (C)   A generalized map showing any existing or proposed arrangement of:
      (1)   Streets;
      (2)   Lots;
      (3)   Access points;
      (4)   Other transportation arrangements;
      (5)   Buffer strips screening;
      (6)   Natural characteristics, including, but not limited to: open space;
stands of trees; brooks; ponds; floodplains; hills; dune classifications; dune
crests; and similar natural assets;
      (7)   Signs, location, and lighting; and
      (8)   Buildings.
   (D)   A narrative describing:
      (1)   The overall objectives of the proposed development;
      (2)   Number of acres or square feet allocated to each proposed use and
gross area in buildings, structures, parking, public, and/or private streets
and drives and open spaces;
      (3)   Dwelling densities by type;
      (4)   Proposed method of providing sewer and water service, as well as
other public and private utilities;
      (5)   Proposed method of providing storm drainage; and
      (6)   Proposed method of re-vegetating open or exposed ground areas, both
preexisting and newly created, to a stable condition.
   (E)   In addition to the above, the applicant shall submit the site plan
review fee in accordance with the established fee schedule to cover the
normally- and specially-incurred expenses of the review.
(Prior Code, § 154.258) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.287 VILLAGE SITE PLAN REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   The Site Plan Review Committee will consist of the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission, the Zoning Administrator, and one Village Council
representative.
(Prior Code, § 154.259) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.288 REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN.
   If the applicant chooses to submit a preliminary site plan, the village’s
Site Plan Review Committee will review it. Upon review of the site plan, the
Committee will submit its recommendations to the Planning Commission. The Site
Plan Review Committee may request review comments from other village officials,
such as the Fire Chief, Village Attorney, or Village Engineer, and base its
recommendations on those review comments, as well as on the purposes,
objectives, and requirements in this chapter, and specifically, the following
considerations when applicable:
   (A)   Ingress and egress through the property, and proposed structures
thereon, with particular reference to motor vehicle and pedestrian safety and
convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fires,
catastrophe, or emergency;
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading areas, where required, including
handicapped parking and accessibility, with particular attention to noise,
glare, and odor effects of each use in the plan on adjoining properties and
properties in the proposed development;
   (C)   Sewer, water, and storm drainage with reference to locations,
availability, and compatibility;
   (D)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions, and
character;
   (E)   Signs, if any, and their proposed lighting relative to glare, traffic
safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with adjoining
properties;
   (F)   Required setbacks;
   (G)   General compatibility with adjacent properties; and
   (H)   The general purposes and spirit of this chapter and the village’s
master plan.
(Prior Code, § 154.260) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.289 FINAL SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   Final site plan review is mandatory. An application for final site plan
review, along with the final site plan, shall be submitted 21 days prior to the
next scheduled Planning Commission meeting. The Village Planner will review the
application and plans for completeness, and then transmit the application and
plans to the Planning Commission. Incomplete applications will not be forwarded
for consideration. Final site plans shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The date, north arrow, and scale; the scale shall be sized to
appropriately fit on a 24-inch by 36-inch sized sheet. The dates of all
revisions shall be noted on the plan;
   (B)   The name, firm address, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of the
individual responsible for the preparation of the site plan;
   (C)   The name, address, telephone numbers, and e-mail address of the
property owner or applicant, and all others associated with the property and
project;
   (D)   A location sketch drawn to scale showing the relationship of the
proposed use to the area within 300 feet;
   (E)   All lot and/or property lines, including required setbacks, are to be
shown and dimensioned;
   (F)   The location and height of all existing and proposed structures on,
and within, 100 feet of the subject property’s boundary;
   (G)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed drives,
sidewalks, curb openings, signs, exterior lighting, curbing, parking facilities
(showing dimensions of a typical parking space), unloading areas, recreation
areas, common use areas, and areas to be conveyed for public use and purpose,
including handicapped requirements;
   (H)   The location and pavement width and right-of-way width of all abutting
roads, streets, alleys, or easements;
   (I)   Property lines and respective zoning abutting the subject property;
   (J)   Proposed zoning changes for the subject property or abutting
properties;
   (K)   The location of all landscaping and the location, height, and types of
fences and walls;
   (L)   The size and location of existing and proposed utilities, including
proposed connections to public sewer or water supply systems;
   (M)   The location and size of all existing and proposed surface water
drainage facilities;
   (N)   Adequate information concerning soils, groundwater, water table, and
the impact of the proposed activities on each;
   (O)   For multiple-family, manufactured housing park developments, and
parking facilities with ten or more spaces, contour intervals shall be shown
(two-foot intervals for average slopes of 10% and under, five-foot intervals
for slopes over 10%). Topography, however, may be required on all site plans at
the discretion of the Planning Commission. Summary schedules and views should
be affixed, as applicable in residential developments, which give the following
data:
      (1)   The number of dwellings proposed (by type), including typical floor
plans for each type of dwelling;
      (2)   The number and location (by code if necessary) of one-bedroom
units, two-bedroom units, and the like;
      (3)   The residential area of the site in acres and in square feet,
including breakdowns of both measures for any sub-areas or staging areas
(excluding all existing rights-of-way), and indicating total square footage of
rights-of-way for each sub-area or staging area; and
      (4)   Typical elevation views of the front and side of each type of
building.
   (P)   Additional information, as the Planning Commission may deem necessary,
in order to determine the impact of the proposed use on the public health,
safety, and general welfare; and
   (Q)   The applicant shall ensure, and be able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission, that all necessary reviews and
approvals of other local, county, state, and federal agencies and associated
regulations are satisfactorily met, complied with, and completed.
(Prior Code, § 154.261) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.290 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The site plan shall be submitted in ten copies. Upon approval of a site
plan, at least two copies of the site plan, as finally approved, shall be
signed and dated by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission. One copy of the
signed site plan shall be filed in the village’s records, and the other
returned to the applicant. The procedure for final site plan approval is as
follows:
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a letter stating the nature of the request
accompanied by a sketch of the proposed use or structure;
   (B)   The village will provide the applicant with the proper documents and
instructions for completing a site plan application;
   (C)   The Planning Commission encourages preliminary, informal review of
proposed site plans with the applicant. The preliminary review shall not,
however, affect the applicability of the standards and requirements for formal
approval of site plans as required by this subchapter; and
   (D)   A single diskette copy of the site plan shall be provided to the
village in generic digital format, when available.
(Prior Code, § 154.262) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.291 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the site plan based on the
purposes, objectives, and requirements of this chapter and on the standards
provided by this subchapter. As a part of its review, the Planning Commission
may distribute copies of the plan to other governmental departments or
officials. Its review and comment would be on matters related to the plan that
would fall under its jurisdiction or involve the discharge of its duties.
   (B)   In reviewing a site plan, the Planning Commission shall determine
whether the applicant has established that the site plan is consistent with
this chapter and in accordance with the adopted plan of the village, and more
specifically, in reviewing the site plan, the Planning Commission shall
specifically consider the following standards, as applicable.
      (1)   Vehicular access and parking. The provisions for vehicular loading
and unloading and parking and for vehicular and pedestrian circulation on the
site and onto adjacent public streets and ways shall not create hazards to
safety and shall not place demands on public services or facilities in excess
of capacity. All buildings and structures shall be accessible by emergency
vehicles.
      (2)   External effects (general). Noise, odor, light, dust, dirt, smoke,
or other external effects from any aspect of the proposed use shall not
adversely affect adjacent and neighboring properties or uses. Special
consideration shall be given to traffic flow and the effects of automobile
headlights directed toward adjacent properties at night. The site plan is
harmonious with, and not injurious or objectionable to, existing and future
uses in the immediate area. The site plan shall be adequate to provide for the
health, safety, and general welfare of the persons and property on the site and
in the neighboring community.
      (3)   Public services and utilities. The location, availability, and
compatibility of necessary improvements, including, but not limited to: sewage
collection and treatment; potable water supply; storm drainage; lighting;
roads; and parking facilities, shall be considered to determine whether the use
will be adequately served. Utility distribution lines, or associated utility
installations, shall be located so as to avoid adverse impacts both to
neighboring properties and to the site.
      (4)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional arrangement of buildings
and structures shall conform to the required yard, setback, and height
restrictions of this chapter.
      (5)   Building arrangement. The proposed buildings and structures shall
have a harmonious relationship to the site terrain, landscaping, open space and
other buildings and structures, existing and proposed. The bulk, location, and
height of proposed buildings and structures, as well as the general character
of the development, shall minimize any adverse effect on other uses of property
in the surrounding area and shall not place demands on public services or
facilities in excess of capacity.
      (6)   Drainage of surface water. Proper site surface drainage shall be
provided so that the removal of surface waters will not adversely affect
neighboring properties or the public storm drainage system. If practical,
stormwater shall be removed from all roof areas, canopies, and paved areas and
carried away in an underground drainage system. The peak rate of stormwater
runoff from the site shall not increase as a result of the proposed
development, and temporary on-site storage to reduce peak runoff from the site
is encouraged. Surface water in all paved areas shall be collected at intervals
so that it will not obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and so
that it will not create ponding.
      (7)   Exterior lighting. All lighting shall be installed and maintained
in such a manner so as to confine the illumination source or divert glare to
the property upon which the use is located and to prevent glare or illumination
from adversely affecting the safety or welfare of adjacent property or streets.
      (8)   Signs. The size, location, design, and lighting of signs shall be
considered in relation to signs on adjacent sites, glare, traffic safety, and
compatibility with adjoining properties, consistent with all applicable sign
regulations. Signs shall be located and designed to avoid creating distraction
or clutter.
      (9)   Special features. Storage areas, mechanical areas, service areas,
truck loading areas, utility buildings and structures, and similar features
shall be located, buffered, and/or screened so as to be unobtrusive; so as not
to interfere with access to or circulation within the site; or so as not to
detract from the visual impression of the site. Trash containers shall be
enclosed on at least three sides by a structure aesthetically compatible with
the development and surrounding property. Waste storage areas shall be
maintained free from litter and in a sanitary condition.
      (10)   Landscaping. The landscape shall be preserved in its natural
state, insofar as practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal. Grade
changes made shall be in keeping with the general appearance of neighboring
developed areas. Plant materials shall be used to enhance the appearance of the
site; to screen unsightly or harsh elements; and to provide visual relief from
large monotonous features, such as parking facilities.
      (11)   Compliance with all applicable laws. The Planning Commission shall
not approve a site plan that violates, or that is inconsistent with, local,
state, or federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 154.263) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.292 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all land uses requiring site plan
approval.
   (A)   No grading, removal of trees or other vegetation, land filling, or
construction of improvements shall commence for any development that requires a
site plan approval until an approved site plan has been signed by the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   A zoning permit for any use requiring site plan approval shall not be
issued until the Chairperson of the Planning Commission has signed an approved
site plan;
   (C)   An occupancy permit for any use requiring a site plan approval will
not be issued unless the use as constructed conforms to the approved site plan;
   (D)   The Chairperson of the Planning Commission shall not sign the approved
site plan until the applicant has submitted three copies of all permits that
may be required by the county or the state for the construction of the use such
as, but not limited to: permits for on-site wastewater disposal; and permits
required under Soil Conservation, Erosion, and Sedimentation Control, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.9101 through 324.9313; and Inland Lakes and Streams, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30101 through 324.30113;
   (E)   The construction of improvements shall not commence for any
development that requires a site plan approval until the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission has signed an approved site plan; and
   (F)   The Building Inspector shall not issue a building permit for any use
requiring site plan approval until the Chairperson of the Planning Commission
has signed an approved site plan.
(Prior Code, § 154.264) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.293 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The Planning Commission shall make a decision to approve the request based
on the following conditions.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may impose any other regulations which it
deems necessary to protect the safety, health, and general welfare of the
village and shall have the authority to make any changes or alterations in
submitted plans and modify any requirements and regulations herein prescribed;
provided that they are in the best public interest and such that the property
may be developed in a reasonable manner, but in so doing, comply with other
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may impose reasonable conditions upon the
approval of a site plan. The conditions may include, but are not limited to:
conditions necessary to ensure that public services and facilities affected by
a proposed land use or activity will be capable of accommodating increased
service and facility loads caused by the land use or activity; to protect the
natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy; to ensure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land; and to promote the use of land in a
socially- and economically-desirable manner. Conditions imposed shall meet all
of the following requirements:
      (1)   The proposed use or structure appears to be in accordance with the
intent of the zoning district in which it is located, and is architecturally
compatible with other conforming uses and structures in the zoning district;
      (2)   Be designed to protect natural resources; the health, safety,
welfare, and social and economic well-being of those who will use the land use
or activity under consideration; residents and landowners immediately adjacent
to the proposed land use or activity; or the community as a whole;
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter,
related to the standards established in this chapter for the land use or
activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards; and
      (4)   Adequate off-street parking and loading spaces, in accordance with
this chapter, shall be provided within 300 feet of the proposed use or
structure.
(Prior Code, § 154.265) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.294 SURETY.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may require, as a condition of final approval
for a site plan, a financial guarantee (surety) acceptable to guarantee the
construction of required improvements. Improvement guarantees shall be provided
to ensure the proper installation and maintenance of required street, utility,
and other improvements. The nature and duration of the guarantees are
structured to achieve this goal without adding unnecessary costs to the
applicant.
   (B)   Construction or installation of improvements may not begin until the
final site plan is approved. However, no further action may be taken by the
property owner until all improvements are completed, inspected, and approved to
ensure that streets are properly constructed, drainage facilities properly
provided, and all other utilities and improvements properly installed. Only
when all improvements are completed, inspected, and approved will zoning
permits be issued or property sold. However, where the applicant has satisfied
the surety requirements herein to ensure that the required improvements will be
completed, the above restrictions may be modified.
   (C)   In large projects, the security may be released in stages. The
applicant may be allowed to assign a portion of the total to each development
stage as part of a complete phasing plan of the overall improvement. Surety for
each subsequent phase depends on completion of the required improvements for
the preceding phase. Where partial approval is granted, the surety may be
released, except that portions of improvements not yet approved, and continued
adequate financial security, is required before approval of the final phase.
   (D)   Similarly, the surety may be refunded based on completion of
improvements. The governing body may reduce the amount of the performance
guarantee when portions of the required improvements have been installed. The
Village Engineer will inspect the project to determine the percent completion
of improvements. The village will release up to 80% of a pro rata portion of
the surety based on the percent complete as verified by the Village Engineer.
Of the performance guarantee, 10% will be held as a construction warranty by
the village for a period of up to one year after all improvements are
completed, or until all vegetation is stabilized and systems functioning.
   (E)   Besides securing the completion of improvements, the financial
security may also be exercised to correct defects in workmanship that appear
after the improvements have been inspected, approved, and accepted. This
construction warranty will be an amount equal to 15% of the entire surety
covering all improvements.
(Prior Code, § 154.266) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.295 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   The applicant will submit a detailed accounting of all improvements to
be completed. This detailed accounting will include the exact amount of work to
be done on each specific improvement. The Village Engineer will approve the
scope of improvements to be completed and estimate the cost of completing each
improvement. The village will determine the amount of the required surety and
submit the estimated cost of completing all improvements to the applicant. The
performance and maintenance guarantee will be in an amount not less than 100%
of the cost of installation of improvements. The performance guarantee will be
written so that each individual improvement and all conditions and agreements
are covered.
   (B)   The performance guarantee must be approved by the village as to form,
sufficiency, and execution. The performance guarantee will run for a fixed term
of not less than one year. However, the village may extend the term of such
performance guarantees for an additional one-year period.
(Prior Code, § 154.267) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.296 SURETY TYPES.
   The following types of surety guarantees may be provided:
   (A)   Letter of credit. The applicant may provide an irrevocable letter of
credit from a bank or other reputable lending institution;
   (B)   Performance bond. The applicant may provide a bond as a guarantee;
   (C)   Escrow cash account. The applicant may deposit cash, or other
instruments readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the
municipality, or in an escrow account held in trust by the village or by a
financial institution; and
   (D)   Escrow non-cash account. The applicant may escrow personal property
(stocks, bonds, equipment), land, other property, or mortgage, or give a deed
of trust on real property to the village.
(Prior Code, § 154.268) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.297 PROCEDURES FOR INSPECTING, APPROVING, AND ACCEPTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Upon completion or substantial completion of all required
improvements, the applicant must notify the village, in writing, and shall send
a copy to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer will inspect all
improvements for which the notice has been given, and will file a detailed,
written report concerning such improvements with a statement of reasons for any
rejection. Inspection fees will be charged for each site visit to prevent the
engineer’s time from being wasted. The cost of any rejected improvements will
be set forth.
   (B)   The engineering report should be the basis for whether the improvement
is approved, partially approved, or rejected. The village will notify the
applicant, in writing, of the contents of the report and the village’s action
after receipt of the applicant’s notice that improvements are complete.
(Prior Code, § 154.269) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.298 CONSTRUCTION WARRANTY.
   (A)   After the applicant has completed all of the required improvements and
upon acceptance of all streets, facilities, and other improvements, the
construction warranty shall go into effect. The property owner must maintain
all improvements for a period of two years. A construction warranty will be
retained by the village to ensure the quality of the work of the applicant and
to provide a warranty against defects in improvements. The construction
warranty shall amount to the 15% remaining from the performance guarantee.
Failure to repair or maintain improvements due to faulty construction or
destruction caused by construction activities shall constitute cause to
exercise the construction warranty.
   (B)   The construction warranty will remain in effect until released by the
village. The applicant shall be responsible for notifying the village for the
release of the construction warranty before the specified time. The security is
to warranty the maintenance, repair, or reconstruction of the improvements for
a period of two years, and is not to be confused with a maintenance guarantee.
(Prior Code, § 154.270) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.299 RELEASE OR EXERCISE OF SURETY.
   (A)   In case of default of performance, the village, upon ten days’ notice,
may undertake the completion of the required improvements, assigning the cost
against the amount of the guarantee to be paid by the surety. Notice to the
property owner shall be directed to the address given by the owner in the
initial application.
   (B)   Whatever the type of surety used, the guarantee will not be released
until the Village Engineer has certified that the required improvements have
been completed according to specifications. A default will be declared upon
expiration of the time allowed for completion of all improvements. The time
allowed for installation of the improvements for which the performance
guarantee has been provided may be extended by the village beyond the
completion deadline for good cause and upon extension of the financial
security. In cases of exercise of the security, the proceeds from the guarantee
will reflect:
      (1)   The cost of inflation of the labor and materials needed to complete
the improvements;
      (2)   The special administrative costs associated with declaring a
default, bidding, or programming the project, and completing the project; and
      (3)   The unforeseen costs of remedying the damage, deterioration, or
faulty workmanship associated with the work already undertaken.
(Prior Code, § 154.271) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.300 VIOLATIONS.
   Completion of the required improvements within the time limited by the
performance guarantee is a mandatory requirement of this chapter. Violation of
mandatory performance requirements shall subject the property owner to the
penalties prescribed in this chapter, beyond which the village may impose, on
ten days’ prior notice, by regular mail delivered to the address as shown on
the initial application, unless such address has been changed by subsequent
notice, in writing, to the secretary of the Planning Commission, one or more of
the following penalties until the improvements are completed:
   (A)   Stop construction work on all homes in the subdivision;
   (B)   Refuse to issue zoning permits in the subdivision;
   (C)   Refuse to issue any certificates of occupancy in the subdivision;
   (D)   Refuse to issue any zoning permits within the village to the
applicant, the applicant’s principals, or an entity of which the applicant or
applicant’s principals are a part; and
   (E)   Exercise a surety.
(Prior Code, § 154.272) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.301 EXCEPTIONS.
   When other governmental agencies or public utilities automatically will own
the utilities to be installed, or the improvements are covered by a performance
or maintenance guarantee to another governmental agency, no performance or
maintenance guarantee, as the case may be, will be required by the village for
the utilities or improvements.
(Prior Code, § 154.273) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.302 CHANGES TO SITE PLAN.
   Subsequent actions altering, amending, or changing an approved site plan in
any way will require approval in accordance with the procedures described in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.274) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.303 ENFORCEMENT.
   A site plan approved by the Planning Commission, in connection with a use or
activity, shall have the full force and effect of the ordinance. Subsequent
actions relating to the use or activity authorized shall be consistent with the
site plan as approved.
(Prior Code, § 154.275) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
SPECIAL LAND USES
§ 154.315 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Special land uses are those uses of land that are not essentially
incompatible with the uses allowed in a zoning district, but possess
characteristics or location qualities that require individual review and
discretion in order to avoid incompatibility with the character of the
surrounding area, public services and facilities, and adjacent uses of land.
The purpose of this subchapter is to establish equitable procedures and
criteria that shall be met for all special land uses.
   (B)   Special land uses shall be permitted in a zoning district only after
review and approval by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The following uses in division (D) below shall only be allowed if the
zoning district in which they are located specifically lists the use as a
special land use.
   (D)   The following special land uses and activities are eligible for
consideration and approval by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Adult foster care facilities for seven persons or more;
      (2)   Automobile repair, car washes, and auto sales facilities;
      (3)   Building supply and equipment establishments;
      (4)   Camps and campgrounds;
      (5)   Child care centers;
      (6)   Coin-operated laundries and dry cleaners;
      (7)   Daycare facilities;
      (8)   Drive-through or drive-in businesses, including, but not limited
to: restaurants; banks; dry cleaning pick-up stations; and similar uses;
      (9)   Educational services;
      (10)   Essential government services;
      (11)   Gasoline stations with convenience stores;
      (12)   Health and physical fitness salons;
      (13)   Health services clinics;
      (14)   Individual and family social services;
      (15)   Institutional care facilities;
      (16)   Indoor commercial recreation facilities, such as theaters, bowling
alleys, skating rinks, or similar uses;
      (17)   Lawn service sales and services, including small engine repair;
      (18)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (19)   Multiple uses of buildings;
      (20)   Museums and art galleries;
      (21)   Outdoor recreation facilities;
      (22)   Public and institutional uses;
      (23)   Public utility buildings and facilities (without storage yards);
      (24)   Public or private business schools or colleges;
      (25)   Radio and television broadcasting studios without communications
towers;
      (26)   Rental businesses;
      (27)   Telecommunication towers; and
      (28)   Farming activities undertaken pursuant to the State Right to Farm
Act, and exercised in accordance with generally-accepted agricultural and
management practices.
(Prior Code, § 154.290) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.316 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures and supporting materials shall be required for
application, review, and approval. An application for a special land use shall
be submitted and acted upon in accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   Applications for a special land use shall be submitted through the
Village Clerk to the Planning Commission. Each application shall be accompanied
by the payment of a fee in accordance with the schedule of fees adopted by the
Village Council to cover the costs of processing the application.
   (B)   Applications for a special land use shall be accompanied by the
following documents and information:
      (1)   A special land use application form submitted to the village that
has been completed in full by the applicant; and
      (2)   A site plan review criteria, as required in this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a special land use which
requires a decision on discretionary grounds, a notice that a request for
special land use approval has been received shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the village, and shall be sent by mail or personal
delivery to the owners of property for which approval is being considered, to
all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the boundary
of the property in question, and to the occupants of all structures within 300
feet. The notice shall be given not less than five and not more than 15 days
before the application will be considered.
      (2)   If the name of the occupant is not known, the term OCCUPANT may be
used in making notification. Notification need not be given to more than one
occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than one
dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, one occupant of each unit, or
spatial area, shall receive notice. In the case of a single structure
containing more than four dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned
or leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations,
notice may be given to the manager or owner of the structure, who shall be
requested to post the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.
      (3)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the special land use request;
         (b)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the special land
use request;
         (c)   State when and where the special land use request will be
considered;
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request; and
         (e)   Indicate that a property owner may request a public hearing on
the special land use request, or the occupant of a structure located within 300
feet of the boundary of the property being considered for a special use.
   (D)   The Planning Commission, based on its review of the application for a
special land use, comments received at the public hearing, and other material
submitted in relation to the request, shall make a determination on the special
land use application. The determination shall be in accordance with the
criteria for approval and such other standards contained in this chapter that
relate to the special land use under consideration.
   (E)   The decision of the Planning Commission on a special land use shall be
incorporated in a statement that sets forth the findings, determinations, and
conclusion relative to the special land use under consideration. The statement
shall specify the basis for the decision of the Planning Commission and any
conditions imposed.
(Prior Code, § 154.291) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.317 BASIS FOR DETERMINATION.
   Prior to the approval of a special land use application, the Planning
Commission shall ensure that the standards specified in this section, as well
as applicable standards established elsewhere in this chapter, shall be
satisfied by the completion and operation of the special land use under
consideration.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the particular circumstances of
the special land use request under consideration in terms of the following
general standards, and shall approve a special land use only upon finding
compliance with each of the following standards, as well as applicable
standards established elsewhere in this chapter.
      (1)   The special land use shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained in a manner harmonious with the character of adjacent property.
      (2)   The special land use shall not impair the essential character of
the surrounding area.
      (3)   The special land use shall not be hazardous to the adjacent
property or involve uses, activities, materials, or equipment that will be
detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of persons.
      (4)   The special land use shall not place demands on public services and
facilities in excess of current capacities.
      (5)   The special land use is in general agreement with the village’s
land use plan.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may deny, approve, or approve with conditions
requests for special land use approval. The Planning Commission may impose
conditions with the approval of a special land use which are necessary to
ensure compliance with the standards for approval stated in this section or any
other applicable standards contained in this chapter. The decision on a special
land use shall be incorporated in a statement of conclusions relative to the
special land use under consideration. The statement of conclusions shall
specify the basis for the decision, and any conditions imposed. The conditions
shall be considered an integral part of the special land use and shall be
enforced by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, an application for special
use under this subchapter which proposes special land use in accordance with
the State Right to Farm Act and the accompanying generally-accepted
agricultural and management practices, (GAAMPS) and the Planning Commission’s
review of the same shall not result in a denial, so long as GAAMPS established
by the State Department of Agriculture for that farming activity are followed
and the activity proposed falls within the parameters within the State Right to
Farm Act, as amended. The Planning Commission may impose conditions which are
necessary to ensure compliance with the standards for approval as stated in
this section and other standards contained in this chapter, so long as the same
is not deemed a violation of the State Right to Farm Act.
(Prior Code, § 154.292) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005; Ord. 49, passed 6-19-2007)
§ 154.318 SURETY.
   The Planning Commission may require, as a condition of approval for a
special land use, a financial guarantee (surety) acceptable to the village in
the form of a cash deposit, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of
credit to guarantee the construction of improvements required as a condition of
approval.
(Prior Code, § 154.293) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.319 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All special land uses shall meet the requirements of the zoning district in
which they are located, plus the following design standards. The requirements
and standards upon which decisions on requests for special land use approval
will be considered shall be based upon the following.
   (A)   Adult foster care facilities for seven persons or more. Adult foster
care facilities having seven or more residents shall have 150 square feet of
lawn area and one-half parking space for every two residents.
   (B)   Automobile repair, car washes, and auto sales facilities.
      (1)   All structures shall be set back 50 feet from any right-of-way or
property line. Not more than one curb cut is allowed for every 75 feet of road
frontage. No curb opening shall be within 75 feet of another curb opening. A
raised curb or landscaped islands shall be constructed along the perimeter of
all parking facilities that are adjacent to major streets.
      (2)   All equipment, tanks, and spare parts must be enclosed within a
building. Outside storage may not exceed a size of 200 square feet and shall be
contained and screened from adjoining premises and public streets by a solid
fence, wall, or natural screening adequate for the purpose.
   (C)   Campgrounds. Campground and recreational vehicle park uses shall be
permitted subject to the following procedures and conditions.
      (1)   Campgrounds must be a minimum total area of at least ten acres.
      (2)   No structures may be located closer than 100 feet to any property
line. No campsite or any structure shall be located in the setback area.
      (3)   There shall be a greenbelt-planting strip along the property lines
with a width of not less than 20 feet, which may be within the required
setback. The greenbelt shall contain at least one straight or staggered row of
deciduous and/or evergreen trees, spaced not more than 40 feet apart, and at
least three rows of deciduous and/or evergreen shrubs spaced not more than
eight feet apart and a minimum of four feet tall.
      (4)   There shall be recreational areas at a ratio of at least 20% of the
gross area of the campground. These recreational areas may not be located
within the 20-foot greenbelt.
      (5)   The vehicular circulation system shall consist of improved drives
or roads with a right-of-way of at least 33 feet wide and shall have
unrestricted access to or from a public street.
      (6)   No structure shall exceed three stories in height.
      (7)   The grounds shall be sloped to drain properly and to satisfactorily
meet the approval of local engineering standards.
      (8)   Each site shall be arranged to satisfactorily and safely
accommodate a travel trailer, camper, or other similar camping apparatus.
      (9)   There shall be a maximum of one sign, which shall bear only the
name of the campground, shall have a maximum area of 12 square feet, may be
lighted (provided the source of light is not visible and not the flashing or
intermittent type), and may be located within the required setback area, but
not within the greenbelt.
      (10)   There shall be permitted a facility for the retail sale of
groceries, sundries, and other similar commodities; provided that this facility
is centrally located and has hours of operation coincidental with hours of
operation of the campground.
      (11)   There shall be no sales or display of camping vehicles.
      (12)   There shall be located, within the campground, approved sanitary
dumping facilities.
      (13)   All requirements, as regulated by Public Act 368 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended, shall be complied with.
      (14)   The Planning Commission may impose any other regulations which it
deems necessary to protect the safety, health, and general welfare of the
village, and shall have the authority to make any changes or alterations in the
plans, and modify any requirements and regulations herein prescribed; provided
that they are in the best public interest, and such that property may be
developed in a reasonable manner, but in so doing, comply with other applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Child care centers. Special land uses will be issued to properly-
licensed child care centers if the proposed facility meets the following
specific guidelines:
      (1)   Has appropriate fencing for the safety of children (see walls and
fencing);
      (2)   Maintains the property consistent with the visible characteristics
of the neighborhood;
      (3)   Meets regulations, if any, governing signs used by the facility to
identify themselves;
      (4)   Meets regulations, if any, requiring off-street parking
accommodations for employees;
      (5)   The child care center shall be registered and licensed as required
for a childcare facility under Public Act 116 of 1973, the Child Care
Organizations Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128, as amended;
      (6)   All structures, facilities, design elements, and operational
requirements of the facility shall be provided or complied with, as determined
necessary by the Planning Commission; and
      (7)   Based on the established capacity of the facility, a minimum of 100
square feet of outdoor open space per person, with not less than 5,000 square
feet of open space area per facility, shall be provided and maintained on the
lot. For the purposes of this section, OPEN SPACE AREA means the area located
within the side or rear yard of the facility, exclusive of any area occupied by
other structures, swimming pools, or required parking facilities. The open
space area shall be free from sharp gravel, glass, or cinder and shall be well-
drained. The open space area shall be completely enclosed by a chain-link or
solid fence of at least four feet in height and shall be screened from any
abutting residential use by vegetation having a height, when planted, of at
least five feet.
   (E)   Daycare facilities. Special land uses will be issued to properly-
licensed daycare facilities if the proposed facility meets the following
specific guidelines:
      (1)   Has appropriate fencing for the safety of children (see walls and
fencing);
      (2)   Maintains the property consistent with the visible characteristics
of the neighborhood;
      (3)   Meets regulations, if any, governing signs used by the daycare
facility to identify themselves;
      (4)   Meets regulations, if any, requiring a daycare operator to provide
off-street parking accommodations for his or her employees; and
      (5)   The daycare facility shall be registered and licensed as required
for a daycare facility under Public Act 116 of 1973, the Child Care
Organizations Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128, as amended.
   (F)   Health services clinics.
      (1)   No structures may be located closer than 25 feet to any property
line. No structure shall be located in the setback area.
      (2)   A clinic adjacent to a residential property or residential zoning
district shall comply with the screening requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Vehicular circulation systems shall consist of paved drives with a
width of at least 33 feet wide and shall have unrestricted access to or from a
public street.
   (G)   Institutional care facilities. Institutional care facilities shall be
permitted subject to the following procedures and conditions:
      (1)   An off-street drop-off/pick-up area must be provided, including an
on-site vehicle turnaround or separate entrance and exit points. All access
points and vehicular and pedestrian circulation must be designed to accommodate
elderly and disabled persons. All structures, facilities, design elements, and
operational requirements shall be provided or complied with as determined
necessary by the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Based on the established capacity of the institutional care
facility, a minimum of 150 square feet of open space area per person, with not
less than 5,000 square feet of open space area per facility, shall be provided
and maintained. For the purposes of this section, OPEN SPACE AREA means an area
available or devoted to outdoor activities, exclusive of any area occupied by a
swimming pool or required parking facilities in the side or rear yard of the
facility. The open space area shall be free from sharp gravel, glass, or
cinder, and shall be well-drained. The open space area shall be designed in a
park-like setting completely screened from any abutting use by vegetation;
      (3)   All structures must be set back 75 feet from all property lines;
and
      (4)   The institutional care facility shall be registered and licensed as
required under the Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended.
   (H)   Multiple uses of buildings. Multiple uses of buildings may be
permitted in commercial and industrial zoning districts; provided that the
Planning Commission finds that all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All of the uses must be allowed in the zoning district in which the
multiple uses are proposed;
      (2)   Every principal entry shall be visible from a public street;
      (3)   No entrance shall be located further than 150 feet from an off-
street parking facility;
      (4)   Where more than one building is located on a lot, the following
requirements apply.
         (a)   A front yard of 35 feet shall be required.
         (b)   Each building shall have a greenbelt of at least 30 feet
unobstructed by any accessory structure.
         (c)   No building shall be located closer than a distance equal to its
total height to any other building.
      (5)   Each building shall contain sanitary facilities as the County
Health Department may require.
   (I)   Outdoor recreation facilities. Outdoor recreation and entertainment
facilities may be permitted if the Planning Commission finds that the following
conditions exist.
      (1)   The proposed use will be harmonious with, and not harmful,
injurious, or objectionable to, existing and projected future uses in the area.
      (2)   The proposed use is adequately served by necessary improvements,
including, but not limited to: water; sewer; electricity; roads; drainage; and
parking.
      (3)   The proposed use is in accordance with the development policies of
the village.
   (J)   Public and institutional uses. Public and institutional uses may be
permitted in any zoning district if the Planning Commission finds that the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The proposed use will be harmonious with, and not harmful,
injurious, or objectionable to, existing and projected future uses in the area.
      (2)   The proposed use is adequately served by necessary improvements,
including, but not limited to: water; sewer; electricity; roads; drainage; and
parking.
      (3)   The proposed use is in accordance with the development policies of
the village.
   (K)   Public utility facilities. Public utility facilities must comply with
the setback provisions of the zoning district in which they are located plus
50%. Buildings shall be constructed of materials compatible with structures in
the surrounding neighborhood. Other than vehicles, there shall be no outside
storage of materials or equipment. The facility must be screened from the view
of adjacent residential properties.
   (L)   Telecommunication towers. Telecommunication towers are permitted in
the IND Zoning District, according to the following standards:
      (1)   Each applicant shall submit a detailed site justification report,
including a description of the process that eliminated other potential sites
and a map showing the extent of planned coverage, approved locations of all
other telecommunication sites, or adjoining municipalities that provide
coverage, including the applicant’s location and the location and service area
of the proposed telecommunication site;
      (2)   Using technological evidence, the applicant must demonstrate that
the proposed location is necessary to satisfy its function in the company’s
grid system. Specific locations will be evaluated using the following analysis
and criteria (not listed in any order of priority):
         (a)   Capacity and propagation analyses;
         (b)   Tower height visibility analyses;
         (c)   Antenna separation analyses based on wavelength;
         (d)   Analyses of signal strength and signal thresholds necessary for
cell hand-off;
         (e)   Environmental analysis of the proposed access road and
structures when new construction is necessary (determined by the Commission);
         (f)   Modeling consistent with FCC criteria to document that a
prepared facility would be in compliance with federal radio frequency health
standards;
         (g)   Availability of suitable structures for antenna mounting;
         (h)   Topography as it relates to line-of-sight transmission for
optimum service efficiency;
         (i)   Leasable lands and willing landlords;
         (j)   Screening potential of existing vegetation, structures, and
topographic features;
         (k)   Compatibility with adjacent land uses, and preservation of
historic views, vistas, buildings, and areas;
         (l)   Least number of sites to cover desired area;
         (m)   Greatest coverage consistent with physical requirements;
         (n)   Opportunities to mitigate possible visual impact;
         (o)   Availability of sites not within an established single-family
community;
         (p)   Preservation of view corridors and vistas;
         (q)   Potential for preservation of preexisting character of site;
         (r)   Impact on surrounding residential areas;
         (s)   Selection of sites that lend themselves to visual mitigation;
         (t)   Availability of road access;
         (u)   Availability of electric power; and
         (v)   Availability of land-based telephone lines or microwave link
capability.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall consider the following factors in
determining whether to approve a telecommunication tower as a special land use:
         (a)   Height of the proposed tower;
         (b)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         (c)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         (d)   Surrounding topography;
         (e)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         (f)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         (g)   Proposed ingress and egress;
         (h)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures;
         (i)   Willingness of the applicant to allow co-location of antennas at
a reasonable charge on the applicant’s existing towers within the village and
within one mile of the village’s boundaries; and
         (j)   The impact of tower lighting on the surrounding neighborhood.
      (4)   General requirements for all telecommunication towers:
         (a)   The application shall include support materials that show the
location of structures in excess of 50 feet in height within a one-fourth of a
mile radius of the site proposed, and that the property owners of those
locations have been contacted and asked for permission to install the antenna
on those structures and denied for other than economic reasons. This includes
smoke stacks, water towers, tall buildings, antennas or towers of other
wireless communications companies, other communication towers (fire, police,
and the like), and other tall structures;
         (b)   Telecommunication towers shall be designed and constructed to
all applicable standards of the American National Standards Institute’s ANSI/
EIA-222-E manual, as amended, and shall meet all Federal Aviation
Administration/Federal Communication Commission (FAA/FCC) standards;
         (c)   A soil report shall be submitted to verify the design
specifications of the foundation for the tower and anchors for the guy wires
prior to the issuance of a zoning permit;
         (d)   The setback is at least 100% of the height of the tower from the
adjoining lot line and from the nearest public right-of-way;
         (e)   The guy wires and accessory building satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements;
         (f)   Separation of the tower from other uses by 200 feet, or 300% of
the height of the tower, whichever is greater, from single-family residences or
residentially-zoned land; and
         (g)   Compliance with the general requirements for all
telecommunication towers.
      (5)   Ground landscaping shall be required to soften the appearance of a
tower and screen as much of the tower as possible; a fence surrounding the
tower, vegetation, berms, walls, decorative fences, or other features instead
of landscaping may be allowed if the same degree of screening as the required
landscaping is achieved. Existing vegetation on, and around, the site shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible;
      (6)   To minimize the number of antenna or wireless sites in the
community in the future, the proposed support structure shall be required to
accommodate other users, including other wireless communication companies and
particularly local police, fire, and ambulance companies, unless it is
determined to be technically unfeasible. Any tower approved hereunder shall be
made available under commercially-reasonable terms to others, including
competing users;
      (7)   (a)   A telecommunication tower not in use for six months shall be
removed by the facility owner. This removal shall occur within 90 days of the
end of the six-month period commencing upon written notice to the property
owner by the zoning enforcement officer. Upon removal, the site shall be
restored to its previous appearance and, where appropriate, re-vegetated;
         (b)   An adequate security deposit or bond shall be required to cover
the expense of dismantling the tower;
      (8)   Towers shall be surrounded by a chain-link fence or wall not more
than eight feet in height or less than six feet in height. The chain-link fence
shall be erected surrounding the tower and all supporting wire ground supports
(anchors) on all sides to prevent unauthorized access. If barbed wire is
included in the fence, it shall be within the eight-foot height limit;
      (9)   All equipment and machinery shall be stored in a fully-enclosed
building, not to exceed 300 square feet in size, if only one building, shall be
allowed. For each co-located antenna, one additional building shall be allowed;
      (10)   All parking facilities shall be set back at least 50 feet from all
lot lines;
      (11)   Except for emergency security purposes, no overnight parking of
vehicles shall be allowed;
      (12)   All structures located adjacent to any residential district or
dwelling must be screened from view by a fence or by evergreen trees or shrubs
in accordance with the screening and fencing provisions of this chapter;
      (13)   Towers not requiring FAA painting/marking shall either have a
galvanized finish or be painted a non-contrasting blue, gray, black, or such
other color as the commission may require to minimize the visibility of the
tower;
      (14)   No advertising signs shall be allowed on any tower or antenna;
      (15)   No lights or illumination shall be allowed unless required by the
FCC or FAA;
      (16)   Towers shall be set back 150 feet from any property line; and
      (17)   Towers shall be separated from one another according to the
following table:
 
Existing Towers; Spacing by Type
                      Lattice Guyed Monopole 75 Feet in Monopole Less than 75
                                    Height or Greater   feet in Height
Guyed                 5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Lattice               5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Monopole Less than 75 750     750   750                 750
feet in height
Monopole 75 feet in   1,500   1,500 1,500               750
height or greater
 
(Prior Code, § 154.294) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
SIGNS
§ 154.330 INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of these requirements is to provide a framework within
which the identification and informational needs of all land uses can be
harmonized with the desires and aesthetic standards of the general public.
   (B)   It is intended through the provisions contained herein to give
recognition to the legitimate needs of business, industry, and other activities
in attaining their identification and informational objectives.
   (C)   However, it is a basic tenet of this subchapter that unrestricted
signage does not benefit either private enterprise or the community at-large.
      (1)   Signs should not, by reason of their size, location, construction,
or manner of display, endanger life and limb, confuse or mislead traffic,
obstruct vision, impede traffic safety, annoy or disturb the residents of the
village, or adversely impair property values.
      (2)   All signs erected or structurally altered shall conform to all
codes and ordinances of the village and shall require approval and a permit.
(Prior Code, § 154.305) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.331 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Sign permits. No person shall erect or relocate, or cause to be
erected or relocated, any sign or billboard without first obtaining a sign
permit. No person shall repair, alter, or cause to be repaired or altered any
sign or billboard without obtaining a sign permit if two-thirds of the
replacement value of the sign or billboard will be exceeded.
   (B)   Procedure to obtain a permit.
      (1)   Application for a sign permit shall be submitted on forms provided
by the Zoning Administrator and shall contain at least the following:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and that of
the owner of the premises upon which the sign or billboard is to be erected;
         (b)   Location of the building, structure, or lot to which or upon
which the sign or billboard is to be attached or erected;
         (c)   Position of the sign or billboard in relation to nearby
buildings, structures, signs, or billboards. A scale drawing containing such
information shall be submitted;
         (d)   Two blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications
and the method of construction and attachment to a structure or ground;
         (e)   For signs in excess of 12 square feet, a copy of stress sheets
and calculations showing that the structure is designed for dead load and wind
pressure in any direction of not less than 35 pounds per square foot;
         (f)   Name of the person, firm, or corporation erecting the sign or
billboard; and
         (g)   The written consent of the owner of the structure or land upon
which the sign or billboard is to be erected.
      (2)   If the sign is to be illuminated, the applicant shall submit the
electrical plans and specifications respecting all wiring and connections along
with a statement that the same complies with the Building Code and the
customary safe practices followed by the electrical profession.
      (3)   After submission of the application, the Zoning Administrator shall
examine the plans, specifications, other data, and the premises upon which it
is proposed to erect such sign or billboard. If the proposed structure complies
with the requirements of this chapter, the provisions of any building code and
state law, he or she shall then issue a sign permit. The permit shall be void
if the work authorized under a sign permit has not been completed within six
months from the date of issuance.
      (4)   Each applicant shall pay permit fees established by the village.
      (5)   Every sign or billboard hereafter erected shall have painted in a
conspicuous place thereon in letters not less than one inch in height the date
of erection, the permit number, and the voltage of any electrical apparatus
used in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 154.306) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.332 REGULATIONS FOR ALL SIGNS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all signs.
   (A)   Signs may not be located within public rights-of-way.
   (B)   No sign shall extend above or exceed the highest roof line of the
principal structure, nor be more than 20 feet above the average grade level at
the base of the sign. Signs exceeding the height limitations of the zoning
district in which they are located may be allowed as special land uses.
   (C)   No sign shall be erected or located so as to prevent free ingress to
or egress from any window, door, or fire escape of or upon any building, nor
shall any sign be attached to any fire escape.
   (D)   Every electrical device and all electric wiring installed for any
purpose upon any sign, or placed within such sign, or constructed on the
outside of such sign, shall conform to the requirements of the Electrical Code.
   (E)   No sign shall be so erected or located that, by reason of its
location, shape, or color (or the color, shape, or location of the lights used
in conjunction therewith), it might interfere with traffic, or be confused with
or obstruct the view or effectiveness of any official traffic signal, traffic
sign, or traffic marking.
   (F)   Every sign hereafter erected or located within the village shall
conform to all the applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (G)   No sign shall contain lewd, vulgar, indecent, or obscene matter of a
publicly-offensive nature.
   (H)   Illuminating arrangements for signs shall be such that the light is
constant and concentrated upon the sign. The source of illumination must be
shielded so that there is no glare cast upon the street, the sidewalk, or
adjacent property.
   (I)   Every projecting and freestanding sign shall be designed and
constructed to withstand a wind pressure of 35 pounds per square foot of area,
and shall be constructed to receive loads as provided in the International
Building Code.
   (J)   No sign shall be placed in a position that will make it dangerous to
traffic on a street, nor shall a sign of any size or description be placed
within the clear vision area.
(Prior Code, § 154.307) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.333 MEASURING SIZE OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire
area within a regular geometric form, or combinations of regular geometric
forms, comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed, including framing. Round, oval, or odd-shaped
signs are measured as though they were rectangular. Size shall be determined as
the product of the height and width as measured at the widest and tallest
points.
   (B)   Wall signs (or any sign where the letters are affixed to a large
background, such as a wall or fence, without a defined border) are measured by
establishing an artificial rectangle around the perimeter of the sign message.
(Prior Code, § 154.308) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.334 WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Each non-residential parcel is allowed either:
         (a)   Two wall signs; or
         (b)   One wall sign and one freestanding or ground sign.
      (2)   Corner parcels may have one additional wall sign. However, if two
wall signs are requested, they must be on different walls.
   (B)   Wall signs are allowed in all zoning districts.
   (C)   The maximum size for wall signs is one square foot of sign area for
each one linear foot of building width.
   (D)   Signs consisting of independent letters shall not exceed two square
feet for each one linear foot of building width or length.
(Prior Code, § 154.309) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.335 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Projecting signs must be mounted at 90-degree angles and separated
from any other projecting sign by a distance of not less than 12 feet.
   (B)   Projecting signs cannot be placed on roof supports or columns.
   (C)   Projecting signs shall only be used for the ground floor businesses.
   (D)   One projecting, overhanging sign may be permitted per business in lieu
of either a freestanding or wall sign provided that the sign does not exceed 32
square feet in area, is not less than ten feet from the ground at its lowest
point, and is secured and located so as to preclude its becoming a hazard to
the public. Buildings on corner lots may have one additional projecting sign on
a different side.
(Prior Code, § 154.310) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.336 GROUND SIGNS.
   (A)   The total area of the allowed ground sign shall not exceed 24 square
feet per side.
   (B)   The highest point of a ground sign shall not exceed six feet.
   (C)   Other than the name of the subdivision at the entrance of the
subdivision, ground signs are not allowed in residential zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 154.311) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.337 FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   Shall not obstruct a clear view of traffic;
   (B)   Shall not exceed 25 feet in height;
   (C)   Shall not exceed one per parcel, regardless of the number of
businesses located on a parcel;
   (D)   Shall be set back at least ten feet from any property line;
   (E)   Shall not be allowed in residential zoning districts; and
   (F)   Shall be a minimum of ten feet from the ground to the bottom of the
sign.
(Prior Code, § 154.312) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.338 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs in residential districts shall be permitted subject to the following
restrictions. Non-illuminated signs shall be permitted for any of the following
purposes:
   (A)   Identification of home occupation (wall signs only) of not more than
two square feet;
   (B)   Signs advertising a new subdivision or major developments may be
permitted for not more than one year; provided that they do not exceed 32
square feet in area (on each sign face if back-to-back faces); and
   (C)   Institutional uses and public buildings and community service
installations permitted in residential districts shall comply with this
section, except they may have a maximum area of 32 square feet (on each sign
face if back-to-back faces).
(Prior Code, § 154.313) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.339 SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs shall be permitted in commercial zoning districts subject to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   All signs shall pertain exclusively to the business carried on within
the building;
   (B)   Signs shall not obstruct a clear view of traffic;
   (C)   There may be up to two directional or traffic-control signs per
driveway or entrance/exit not exceeding three square feet in size, designating
exits, entrances, parking and loading areas, and shipping docks;
   (D)   Wall signs:
      (1)   Where a principal structure has a marquee or canopy which is an
integral part of the structure, the front line of the marquee or canopy must be
at least ten feet above the walk surface in front of the structure;
      (2)   Wall signs shall be flat signs attached and parallel to the face of
the building wall, or parallel to the building on a canopy or awning. They may
be projecting, but shall not project beyond 15 inches from the wall. Signs
shall not project above the building; and
      (3)   There may be one wall sign per business per building side.
   (E)   Freestanding signs:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 25 feet in height;
      (2)   Shall not exceed one per parcel, regardless of the number of
businesses located on a parcel;
      (3)   No part of any sign shall project beyond the property line; and
      (4)   Shall not exceed 32 square feet in area (on each sign face if back-
to-back faces).
   (F)   Wall murals, including hand-painted wall murals, not containing
letters or numbers shall be permitted in commercial zoning districts, provided
that such a mural:
      (1)   Shall be painted directly on the side of an existing building, and
shall not be permitted on any additional structure or framework; and
      (2)   Shall be adequately maintained.
         (a)   The maintenance shall include continued readability of the
mural, and preservation of the mural with paint or other surface-finishing
material.
         (b)   If the mural is not maintained, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue written notice of any disrepair to the owner of the structure.
         (c)   If the disrepair is not corrected within 30 days, the mural
shall be removed or painted over at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 154.314) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.340 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs shall be permitted in the Industrial Zoning District subject to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   Signs shall pertain exclusively to the business carried on within the
building;
   (B)   Directional signs up to six square feet, designating exits, entrances,
parking and loading areas, or shipping docks;
   (C)   Signs may be located anywhere on the premises, but no closer than ten
feet from any property line;
   (D)   Wall signs:
      (1)   Wall-mounted signs shall be flat signs attached and parallel to the
face of the building wall, not higher than the height of the building. Where a
principal structure has a marquee, awning, or canopy which is an integral part
of the structure, the front line shall be at least ten feet above the walk
surface in front of the structure; and
      (2)   Wall signs painted or affixed to buildings shall not exceed 10% of
the total surface area of the building face to which they are attached.
   (E)   Freestanding signs:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 25 feet in height;
      (2)   Shall not exceed 75 square feet in area (on each sign face if back-
to-back faces); and
      (3)   Freestanding signs having more than two sides shall not exceed 150
square feet for all sides combined.
(Prior Code, § 154.315) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.341 SIGNS NOT TO CONSTITUTE A TRAFFIC HAZARD.
   No sign shall be erected at the intersection of any street in such a manner
so as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where by reason of
the position, shape, or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or
be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device; or which makes
use of the words “stop,” “look,” “danger,” or any word, phrase, symbol, or
character in such manner so as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
(Prior Code, § 154.316) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.342 PORTABLE OR MOVABLE SIGNS.
   Any freestanding sign not permanently anchored or secured to either a
building or the ground, including, but not limited to, “A” frame, “T” frame, or
inverted “T” shaped structures, including those signs mounted on wheeled
marquee signs, shall be permitted in all non-residential zoning districts, and
in residential districts occupied by public buildings and community service
installations as defined herein, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Portable signs are permitted for a period not to exceed 30 days;
   (B)   Portable signs may be illuminated, but no flashing or moving
illumination shall be permitted. The source of illumination shall be shielded
from traffic and adjacent properties;
   (C)   All portable signs shall be set back at least ten feet, measured from
the right-of-way line to the leading edge of the sign;
   (D)   The sign face of any portable sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in
surface display area (on each sign face, if back-to-back faces); and
   (E)   Portable signs exceeding the above requirements may be permitted by a
“special event permit” granted by the village.
(Prior Code, § 154.317) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.343 OFF-SITE ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Off-site advertising signs are permitted in non-residential zoning districts
in accordance with the following limitations:
   (A)   Off-site advertising signs shall be located at least ten feet from the
right-of-way line of a street and all property lines. Off-site advertising
signs shall not be permitted on or over the roof of any building;
   (B)   Off-site advertising signs may be illuminated; providing, however,
that the source of illumination is not visible from any residential zoning
district;
   (C)   There may be only one off-premises sign per parcel; and
   (D)   Off-premises signs shall be limited to 24 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 154.318) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.344 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary signs may be allowed in all districts without a permit, as
provided herein.
   (B)   All temporary signs may be located within the required front setback;
provided that vision for traffic is not impaired.
   (C)   One construction identification sign may be allowed per property that
identifies the name of the project developers, contractors, engineers, and
architects on a site being developed or remodeled. These signs shall be ground,
pole, or wall-mounted, and shall be located not less than one-half the required
front yard setback, and shall be no higher than six feet. These signs may be
not larger than 16 square feet in all residential districts, and not larger
than 32 square feet in all other districts. Construction signs shall be removed
upon project completion.
   (D)   Residential for sale/lease signs may be allowed which identify the
sale/lease of the property upon which the sign is located. These signs shall be
no larger than nine square feet, located within the property lines, and shall
be no higher than five feet. One such sign may be allowed per lot, except that
corner lots may be allowed two signs. For sale/lease signs shall be removed
within seven days of the property sale or lease.
   (E)   Business for sale/lease signs may be allowed which identify the sale/
lease of the property upon which the sign is located. These signs shall be not
larger then 16 square feet, located within the property lines, and shall be not
higher than eight feet. One such sign may be allowed per lot, except that
corner lots may be allowed two signs. For sale/lease signs shall be removed
within seven days of the property sale or lease.
   (F)   Real estate open-house directional signs are permitted on the day and
the preceding day of the open house only. These signs shall be not larger than
nine square feet.
   (G)   Political election signs advocating or opposing a candidate for public
office or a position on an issue to be determined at the election are allowed
on election day, and 30 days prior thereto. These signs shall not exceed nine
square feet in size. All election signs must be removed within three days after
the election.
   (H)   Garage and yard sale identification and directional signs are
permitted for up to three consecutive days during a sale and must be removed
immediately after the sale. These signs shall be located on private properly
with the permission of the property owner, and be not larger than nine square
feet.
   (I)   Holiday activity or special event signs promoting holiday activities
or special events of interest to the entire community may be placed up to 30
days prior to the event. These signs may be portable signs, placed on private
property with permission of the owner, shall not exceed 32 square feet in size,
and shall not exceed five feet in height.
   (J)   Sidewalk signs not larger than eight square feet and not exceeding two
feet in width may be placed on the sidewalk adjacent to, and directly in front
of, businesses in the C-1 Commercial Zoning District. Sidewalk signs may be
displayed during open business hours only and must be removed when the business
is closed. Signs must not impede pedestrian movement.
(Prior Code, § 154.319) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.345 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   The signs and devices listed in this section are exempted from the
restrictions and requirements of this subchapter, and may be used without
permit or approval when not in violation of any law or safety standard or any
other portion of this chapter:
   (A)   Signs erected by an official governmental body or agency and deemed
necessary for the protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and morals;
   (B)   Official flags of governments, when displayed in a manner approved by
the government represented;
   (C)   Holiday decorations and greetings in season;
   (D)   Signs required by law to be displayed;
   (E)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and having thereon no
letter or symbol exceeding two inches in any dimension; and
   (F)   Street numbers and family names on mailboxes and mailbox supports.
(Prior Code, § 154.320) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.346 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The signs and devices listed in this section shall not be allowed, erected,
or maintained in any zoning district:
   (A)   Flashing and intermittently-illuminated signs, and signs that
incorporate, in any manner, any flashing or moving lights, or any sign that has
any visible moving part, visible revolving parts, or visible mechanical
movement of any description, or other apparent visible movement achieved by
mechanical means or by action of natural wind currents;
   (B)   Any sign or sign structure which is structurally unsafe, or
constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, or abandonment, or is not kept in good repair, or is capable of
causing electrical shock to persons likely to come in contact with it;
   (C)   Any sign, which, by reason of its size, location, content, coloring,
or manner of illumination, constitutes a traffic hazard or a detriment to
traffic safety by obstructing the vision of drivers or by obstructing or
detracting from the visibility of any traffic sign or control device on public
streets or roads;
   (D)   Any that obstructs free ingress to or egress from a required door,
window, fire escape, or other required exit way;
   (E)   Signs that make use of words such as “stop,” “look,” “danger,” or any
other words, phrases, symbols, or characters in such a manner so as to
interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic;
   (F)   Any sign or other advertising structure containing any obscene,
indecent, sexually explicit, or immoral matter;
   (G)   Wheeled trailer signs on flatbed trailers and semi-trailers requiring
registration, or previously registered, as moving vehicles by the Department of
State are prohibited; and
   (H)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained.
(Prior Code, § 154.321) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.347 SIGN MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES AND REMOVAL.
   All signs shall be adequately maintained. The maintenance shall include
proper alignment, continued readability, and preservation of structural
components. The sign surface must be maintained with paint or other surface-
finishing material. All signs located in the village will be erected, altered,
and maintained at the risk of the owner thereof, who shall assume full
responsibility for consequences or damage caused thereby. Where those signs are
deemed to have become unsafe or not properly maintained, the village shall
issue written notice of any disrepair to the owner to correct the situation or
have the sign removed. Upon failure to remove or correct such conditions within
30 days after notice, the village shall have the sign summarily removed as a
public nuisance and the cost incurred in removal of same to be borne by the
owner of the sign.
(Prior Code, § 154.322) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.348 EXISTING NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   It is the intent of this section to permit the continuance of a lawful sign
existing at the effective date of adoption of this section, although the sign
or off-site advertising sign may not conform to the provisions of this section.
It is the intent that nonconforming signs and off-site advertising signs shall
be gradually eliminated and terminated upon their natural deterioration or
accidental destruction. The continuance of all nonconforming signs and off-site
advertising signs within the village shall be subject to the conditions and
requirements set forth herein.
   (A)   The faces, supports, or other parts of any nonconforming sign or off-
site advertising sign shall not be structurally changed, altered, substituted,
or enlarged, unless the resultant changed, altered, substituted, or enlarged
sign or off-site advertising sign conforms to the provision of this subchapter
for the use it is intended, except as otherwise provided for.
   (B)   Nothing shall prohibit the repair, reinforcement, alteration,
improvement, or modernizing of a lawful nonconforming sign or off-site
advertising sign; provided that the repair does not exceed an aggregate cost of
50% of the appraised replacement cost, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, unless the subject sign or off-site advertising sign is changed
by such repair, reinforcement, alteration, improvement, or modernizing to a
conforming structure. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the periodic
change of message on any off-site advertising sign.
   (C)   Any lawful nonconforming sign or off-site advertising sign damaged by
fire, explosion, or an act of God, or by other accidental causes, may be
restored, rebuilt, or repaired; provided that the estimated expense of
reconstruction does not exceed 60% of the appraised replacement cost, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Whenever the activity, business, or usage of a premises to which a
sign is attached or related had been discontinued for a period of 90 days or
longer, the discontinuance shall be considered conclusive evidence of an
intention to abandon legally the nonconforming sign attached or related
thereto. At the end of this period of abandonment, the nonconforming sign shall
either be removed or altered, at the owner’s expense, to conform to the
provisions of this section.
   (E)   The village may acquire any nonconforming sign or off-site advertising
sign, with or without acquiring the property on which the sign or off-site
advertising sign is located, by condemnation or other legal means, and may
remove the sign or off-site advertising sign.
(Prior Code, § 154.323) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, AND LOTS
§ 154.360 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow any lawful use existing at
the time of the adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Lawful existing uses may be continued notwithstanding the fact that
the use becomes nonconforming under this chapter as adopted or amended.
(Prior Code, § 154.324) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.361 CONTINUING EXISTING USES.
   The lawful use of any dwelling, building, or structure and of any land or
premises as existing and lawful at the time of enactment of this chapter, or in
the case of an amendment to this chapter, may be continued although the use
does not conform with the provisions of this chapter or of the amendment,
except as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 154.325) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.362 EXTENSIONS; ENLARGEMENTS; MOVING.
   (A)   (1)   A nonconforming use, building, or structure may be enlarged or
expanded by up to 10%; provided that the enlargement meets the required
setbacks and the other requirements set forth in the zoning district in which
the building is located.
      (2)   No nonconforming use, building, or structure may be moved or
relocated within the village, unless the move or relocated use, building, or
structure shall thereby constitute a conforming use and comply with all other
applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Nonconforming uses that are not located within a building or
structure may not be expanded to land not actually in use at the time of the
adoption of this chapter or any amendment to these provisions thereto.
      (2)   Nonconforming uses having multiple buildings or structures shall
not be expanded by construction of an additional building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 154.326) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.363 NONCONFORMING USES DISCONTINUED.
   No building, structure, or premises where a nonconforming use has ceased for
more than nine months, or has been changed to a use permitted in the district
in which it is located, shall again be resumed to a nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 154.327) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.364 CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use if the
Zoning Board of Appeals finds that the new use would markedly decrease the
degree of nonconformance and would enhance the desirability of adjacent
conforming uses.
(Prior Code, § 154.328) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.365 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Any structure or use which, when constructed, complied with the height,
area, dimension, and any other size regulations of the ordinance in effect at
the time of its construction may continue notwithstanding the fact that the
structure or use becomes nonconforming as to height, area, dimension, or other
regulations of this chapter as adopted or amended.
(Prior Code, § 154.329) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.366 RESTORATION AND REPAIR OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS; ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Repairs and maintenance may be made to keep a nonconforming structure
in sound condition.
   (B)   A nonconforming building or structure suffering from wear and tear,
neglect, deterioration, and depreciation may be repaired or rehabilitated
according to the current Building Code for new construction.
   (C)   (1)   If a building or structure is damaged less than 75% of its
current market value by fire, wind, natural elements, collapse, public enemy, a
calamity commonly referred to as an “Act of God,” or any other casualty, the
building or structure shall be deemed partially destroyed and may be repaired,
restored, reconstructed, or rebuilt and its use resumed.
      (2)   The building shall be rebuilt on its existing footprint, or
anywhere on the lot that would render the structure less nonconforming.
      (3)   The building or structure shall be repaired, restored,
reconstructed, or rebuilt according to the current Building Code for new
construction.
   (D)   If a building or structure is damaged or destroyed more than 75% of
its current market value by fire, wind, natural elements, collapse, public
enemy, a calamity commonly referred to as an “Act of God,” or any other
casualty, then the building shall be deemed totally destroyed and may be
repaired, restored, reconstructed, or rebuilt; provided that the rebuilt
building complies with the required setbacks, building size, and other
requirements set forth in the zoning district in which the building is located.
   (E)   Current market value will be determined by the mean of two independent
appraisals, or by calculating 200% of parcel state equalized value, whichever
is greater.
   (F)   The cost of repairs will be determined by the mean estimate of two
licensed contractors.
   (G)   A zoning permit must be secured before reconstruction of a building.
The Zoning Administrator shall determine the extent of the destruction,
deterioration, or depreciation before issuing a zoning permit.
(Prior Code, § 154.330) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.367 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   The Zoning Administrator may permit single-family dwellings on lots of
record not meeting the dimensions or other requirements of the zoning district
in which they are located upon making the following determinations:
   (A)   The lots are in single ownership;
   (B)   There is no practical possibility of obtaining more land;
   (C)   The proposed use reasonably cannot be located on the lot such that the
minimum requirements are met;
   (D)   The proposed use will not adversely affect adjacent properties or the
character of the neighborhood;
   (E)   Side yards of at least five feet will be provided; and
   (F)   Off-street parking requirements will be met.
(Prior Code, § 154.331) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.368 DETERMINATION OF A LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Upon application of any person claiming to be the property owner of
the legal or equitable title to a parcel of land that was the subject of a deed
or land contract not recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds on the
effective date of the ordinance, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to
determine whether the property owner is entitled to have the parcel treated as
a lot of record in accordance with this chapter
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall grant the variance when he or she
finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the instrument under which the
premises is being purchased was executed prior to the effective date of this
chapter, or amendments thereto.
   (C)   In making his or her determination, the Zoning Administrator is
authorized to consider all matters it deems relevant, including, but not
limited to: the tax roll of the village; the relationship of the parties to the
purported transfer; the degree of formality of the purported document of
transfer; and the testimony of the applicant and his or her witnesses.
   (D)   Such a determination shall have only the effect of equating such a
property owner with the owner of a lot of record, and shall not relieve the
property owner from complying with the other conditions set forth in this
chapter in order that a zoning permit be granted.
(Prior Code, § 154.332) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS (ZBA)
§ 154.380 CREATION.
   A Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) is hereby created, having the powers
authorized under statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 154.345) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.381 MEMBERSHIP.
   The ZBA shall consist of five members, appointed by the Village President,
subject to confirmation of the Village Council for terms of three years.
Appointments of the first members shall be for terms of one, two, and three
years, respectively, so as nearly as possible to provide for the subsequent
appointment of an equal number of members each year. After the initial
appointments, each member shall hold office for the full three-year term.
Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term only.
(Prior Code, § 154.346) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.382 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The Village Council may appoint not more than two alternate members for the
same term as regular members of the Board of Appeals. The alternate members may
be called on a rotating basis to sit as regular members of the Board of Appeals
in the absence of a regular member. An alternate member may also be called to
serve in the place of a regular member for the purpose of reaching a decision
on a case in which the regular member has abstained for reasons of conflict of
interest. The alternate member called shall serve in the case until a final
decision is made. The alternate member has the same voting rights as a regular
member of the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 154.347) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.383 OFFICERS AND RULES OF ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The officers of the ZBA shall be the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson,
and Secretary. The ZBA shall adopt its own rules of procedure deemed necessary
to carry out the provisions of this section. Officers shall be elected as
specified in the rules of organization.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirements, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official or body charged with the enforcement of an ordinance
adopted under this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals shall also hear and decide matters referred to
the Board or upon which the Board is required to pass under an ordinance
adopted under this chapter.
      (3)   For special land use and planned unit development decisions, an
appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals only if provided for in the Zoning
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 154.348) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.384 MEETINGS, MINUTES, AND ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Meetings of the ZBA shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, and
at such other times as the ZBA may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or her
absence, the Vice-Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the ZBA shall be open to the public. The ZBA
shall keep minutes of its proceedings. The Secretary shall maintain a public
record of the proceedings of the ZBA, which shall be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk. The ZBA shall not conduct business unless a majority of the
members of the ZBA are present. The Village Council may authorize the
remuneration of the members of the Board for attendance at each meeting.
   (B)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by,
the Board of Appeals or a commission appointed pursuant to §
30.05 in the performance of an official function shall be made available to the
public in compliance with Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to
15.246.
(Prior Code, § 154.349) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.385 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An appeal shall be taken by general rule, by filing, with the Zoning
Administrator, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds for the appeal. The
Zoning Administrator shall immediately transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record from which the action appealed was taken.
   (B)   Appeals may be taken to the ZBA by any party aggrieved by a decision
or order of the Zoning Administrator where it is alleged that there is error or
misinterpretation in any order, requirement, or decision made by the Zoning
Administrator, or other administrative agency, in the carrying out of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   A notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof shall be filed with
the Secretary of the ZBA within seven days after the date an appeal is filed.
The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall promptly serve a copy of the
notice with the Secretary of the ZBA.
(Prior Code, § 154.350) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.386 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   An appeal under this section stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the officer or body from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal is filed,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in the opinion
of the officer or body, cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   If such a certification is filed, the proceedings shall only be stayed
by a restraining order.
   (C)   A restraining order may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by the
circuit court, on application, on notice to the officer or body from whom the
appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 154.351) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.387 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The business that the Board of Appeals may perform shall be conducted
at a public meeting held in compliance with Public Act 267 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place
of the meeting shall be given in the manner required by Public Act 267 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275.
   (B)   The ZBA shall hold a public hearing within 60 days for the hearing of
the appeal or other matters referred to it, and give notice of the appeal to
the persons to whom real property within 300 feet of the premises in question
is assessed, and to the occupants of single- and two-family dwellings within
300 feet. The notice shall be delivered personally or by mail addressed to the
respective owners and tenants at the address given in the last assessment roll.
If a tenant’s name is not known, the term “occupant” may be used. Upon the
hearing, a party may appear in person, or by agent or attorney. The ZBA shall
decide the appeal within 30 days from the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Procedure for scheduling public hearings:
      (1)   When an application for hearing or appeal has been filed in proper
form and the required fee paid, the Secretary of the ZBA shall immediately
place the same upon the calendar for hearing and serve required notices;
      (2)   Notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the hearing;
      (3)   Copies of the notice shall be served upon the applicant and the
Zoning Administrator or other administrative officers from which such appeal is
taken. Service shall be made as provided herein;
      (4)   A like notice shall be sent at least seven days prior to the
hearing to all owners of property within 300 feet of the premises involved by
regular United States mail, with proof of posting, postage prepaid, and
addressed to the last known address of the property owners as determined by
village records;
      (5)   On the date for hearing of any application or appeal, the ZBA may
adjourn the hearing to a specified time and date in order to allow the
obtaining of additional information or to cause further notices to be served.
In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons previously notified, and persons
already heard, need not be notified of the resumption of said hearing, unless
the ZBA decides otherwise; and
      (6)   Any interested party may appear and be heard at the hearing in
person, or by agent or attorney.
(Prior Code, § 154.352) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.388 POWERS OF THE ZBA.
   (A)   The ZBA shall have the power:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter, or of any ordinance adopted
pursuant thereto; and
      (2)   To authorize, upon appeal in specific cases, such variance from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, so that
the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The ZBA may permit, in appropriate cases, and subject to appropriate
conditions and safeguards in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter, a building or premises to be erected or used for the public
utility purposes in any location which is reasonably necessary for the public
convenience and welfare.
   (C)   The ZBA shall act upon all questions as they may arise in the
administration of this chapter, including interpretation of the Zoning Map. The
ZBA may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify any order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and shall make an order,
requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to be made, and
to that end shall have all powers of the officer from whom the appeal was
taken. It may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. It shall also hear and
decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter.
   (D)   If there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in
carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, the Board of Appeals may in
passing upon appeals grant a variance in any of its rules or provisions
relating to the construction of, or structural changes in, equipment, or
alteration of buildings or structures, or the use of land, buildings, or
structures, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done.
(Prior Code, § 154.353) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.389 DECISIONS.
   (A)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the ZBA may, in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, as
ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal is taken, and may issue the permit.
   (B)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board is
necessary to reverse an order, requirement, decision, or determination of an
administrative official or body, or to decide in favor of the applicant a
matter upon which the Board is required to pass under an ordinance, or to
effect a variation in an ordinance, except that a concurring vote of two-thirds
of the members of the Board is necessary to grant a variance from uses of land
permitted in an ordinance. The Secretary shall record the grounds for each
decision. The Board shall render its decision upon any matter within 30 days
after the matter is heard.
   (C)   Three members shall constitute a quorum. The concurring vote of three
members shall be required to reverse the determination appealed from.
   (D)   A copy of each decision shall be sent to the Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, and the applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall not
issue a zoning permit until the decision is received.
   (E)   The Board of Appeals may impose conditions upon an affirmative
decision.
(Prior Code, § 154.354) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.390 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   The ZBA shall base its findings upon the evidence presented to it and find
that all of the following conditions are present:
   (A)   The particular physical surroundings, slope, or topographic conditions
of the specific property should result in unnecessary hardship if the
regulations are to be carried out strictly, due to the unique character of the
property and not by the conditions unique to the applicant;
   (B)   The conditions upon which the application for a variance are based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
   (C)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this chapter in
relation to the particular property and has not been created by any person; and
   (D)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the neighborhood in which the
property is located.
(Prior Code, § 154.355) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.391 VARIANCES.
   The ZBA, after public hearing, shall have the power to decide applications
for variances from the provisions or requirements of this chapter; provided
that it finds, from reasonable evidence, that all of the following facts and
conditions exist as follows:
   (A)   Where the literal enforcement of this chapter would involve practical
difficulties or would cause undue hardship by reason of the exceptional
narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property, or by reason
of exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary situation of the
premises, or of the use of the premises, immediately adjoining the premises in
question;
   (B)   Where there is practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship in meeting
the strict letter of this chapter so that the spirit of this chapter may be
observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done;
   (C)   Where the condition or situation of the property, or the intended use
of the property, is not of so general or recurrent a nature as to make
reasonably practical a general regulation as part of this chapter;
   (D)   Where there is reasonable evidence that the variance will not be
detrimental to adjacent property and will not impair the intent and purposes of
this chapter or the public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (E)   Where there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the specific property that do not apply generally to
other properties in the zoning district affected;
   (F)   Where the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right similar to that possessed by other properties in
the zoning district. Financial gain alone shall not be deemed sufficient to
warrant the granting of a variance; and
   (G)   With respect to use variances, in addition to the above, that the
property for which a variance is sought cannot reasonably be used in a manner
consistent with existing zoning.
(Prior Code, § 154.356) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.392 APPEALS OF THE ZBA.
   (A)   The decision of the Board of Appeals is final. However, a person
having an interest affected by the Zoning Ordinance may appeal to the circuit
court. Upon appeal, the circuit court shall review the record and decision of
the Board of Appeals to ensure that the decision meets all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Complies with the constitution and laws of this state;
      (2)   Is based upon proper procedure;
      (3)   Is supported by competent material and substantial evidence on the
record; and
      (4)   Represents the reasonable exercise of discretion granted by law to
the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   (1)   If the court finds the record of the Board of Appeals inadequate
to make the review required by this section, or that additional material
evidence exists that with good reason was not presented to the Board of
Appeals, the court shall order further proceedings before the Board of Appeals
on conditions that the court considers proper.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals may modify its findings and decision as a
result of the new proceedings, or may affirm the original decision. The
supplementary record and decision shall be filed with the court.
   (C)   As a result of the review required by this section, the court may
affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 154.357) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.393 FEES.
   The Village Council may establish by resolution a schedule of fees to be
charged for hearings by the ZBA. Any application for appeal or request for
variance filed with the Zoning Administrator shall be accompanied with a fee as
determined by the Village Council. The fee shall be paid to the Village Clerk
before any action shall be taken on the petition for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 154.358) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.394 TIME LIMIT.
   Any necessary permits shall be secured and the authorized action begun and
completed within the time period specified in the ZBA’s determination. The ZBA
may, after a public hearing, extend those periods for good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 154.359) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.405 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this chapter is hereby vested in the village’s Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission, and Zoning Board of Appeals. The
enforcement of this chapter is hereby vested in the village’s Police Chief, or
a designated police officer.
(Prior Code, § 154.370) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.406 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the administrative officer
for the provisions of this chapter. The duties of the Zoning Administrator are
as follows:
   (A)   Receive and file applications for amendment to the Zoning Ordinance,
special land use permits, issuance of zoning permits, certification of
compliance, and inspection and maintenance of records as required by this
chapter; and
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall report all complaints or application
for appeal or any actions taken to the ZBA.
(Prior Code, § 154.371) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.407 ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Police Chief is hereby designated as the enforcement officer for the
provisions of this chapter. The duties of the Zoning Enforcement Officer are as
follows:
   (A)   Receive and file complaints for violations of the Zoning Ordinance,
certification of inspections of violations, and maintenance of records as
required by this chapter; and
   (B)   Enforce this chapter with the authority to enter upon any premises,
public or private, at a reasonable time and make inspection thereof, and, upon
reasonable cause or question or improper compliance, revoke any zoning permit
and require the cessation of any building, moving, alteration, or use which is
in violation of this chapter. The revocation shall remain in effect until
reinstated by the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 154.372) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.408 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission is hereby vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority within this chapter:
      (1)   To act on all applications or on its own initiative for amending
the Zoning District Map and the text of this chapter, and to approve, deny, or
modify applications for zoning permits, variances, and special exceptions; and
      (2)   To act on all applications for special land use permits in the same
manner as by state law as set forth by state statute.
   (B)   The Commission may, upon reviewing an application for amendment or
special land use and the adequacy of the information, data, maps, reports in
support of the application, and upon hearing all interested parties present,
act to recommend to the Village Council or request additional information
regarding the application. The Commission may also require advisory reports
regarding the applications from pertinent federal, state, regional, or county
agencies, or other local units of government. Any such stay of proceedings
found necessary or appropriate by the Commission in order to obtain additional
information shall not exceed 60 days from the date of the public hearing.
   (C)   Upon approval or special land approval by the Planning Commission of a
special land use application, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a special
land use permit, which shall be vested with the property rather than the owner.
No zoning permit or certificate of compliance shall be issued or reissued
without full compliance with this chapter and the conditions of approval as set
forth by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 154.373) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.409 ZONING PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence excavation for or
construction of any building or structure, or structural chances in any
existing building or structure, without first obtaining a zoning permit from
the Zoning Administrator. No permit shall be issued for the construction,
alteration, or remodeling of any building or structure until application has
been submitted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter showing that
the construction proposed is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
and other regulations of the village. Zoning permits are valid for 180 days,
and may be renewed, by written request, by the Zoning Administrator for an
additional 180 days for cause.
(Prior Code, § 154.374) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.410 ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The Village Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or
change, by ordinance, the boundaries or districts of regulations herein
established. Any proposed amendment, supplement, or change shall be by village
initiative, or requested by application or petition from a property owner.
   (B)   A public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission before
adoption of any proposed amendment, supplement, or change, notice of which
hearing shall be given by two publications in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, in accordance with state statute. The notices shall
include the places and times at which the tentative text and/or any maps of the
proposed amendment supplement or change may be examined. Approval of an
amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be by Village Council, as required by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 154.375) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.411 COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   All applications for amendments to this chapter shall be accompanied
with a fee as determined by the Village Council, payable to the Village Clerk,
the application to be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The applicant shall reimburse any publication costs attendant to any
application filed under this chapter to the village immediately upon demand of
the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 154.376) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.412 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of an approved site plan shall be grounds for the village to
order that all construction be stopped and to order that zoning permits,
building permits, and certificates of occupancy be withheld until the violation
is removed, or until adequate guarantee of removal of the violation is provided
to the village. In addition, a violation of any approved site plan, or failure
to comply with any requirements of this chapter, including conditions of
approval, shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.377) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.413 CONFLICTING AUTHORITY.
   Authority given to any person or council under this chapter shall be
construed as cumulative to, and not derogation of, authority held under any
ordinance of the village, the powers and duties contained in this chapter to be
construed as separate and distinct from the authorities or duties required of
any official or council under any other ordinance of the village, and shall not
be construed as conflicting therewith or limiting the scope thereof.
(Prior Code, § 154.378) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.414 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, in conflict with any of the
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed. Any Zoning Ordinance and all
supplements or amendments thereto are hereby repealed as of the effective date
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.379) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of
not more than $500 or imprisonment in the county’s jail in Hart for a period of
not more than 90 days, or punishable by both such fine and imprisonment. The
continued violation of any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense each and every day the violation shall continue.
(Prior Code, § 154.999) (Ord. 48, passed 6-21-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
32       8-20-1985   Granting franchise to Cass Cable Television Incorporated.
51       4-17-2012   Granting franchise to Consumers Energy Company.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite         Code Section
15.231 - 15.246       154.384
15.261 - 15.275       154.387
28.451 - 471          92.25
41.181 et seq.        113.04
63.3                  31.01
125.31 - 125.45       32.01;
                      32.03
125.51 - 125.55       32.03
125.2301 et seq.      151.01 -
                      151.04
125.2301 - 125.2350   154.161;
                      154.171
125.3101 et seq.      154.001;
                      154.021
247.321 - 247.329     150.03
257.1 through 257.923 70.15
257.951 - 257.955     70.01
286.471 et seq.       94.02;
                      154.021
287.261 - 287.290     94.37
287.277               94.37
287.280               94.38
324.9101 - 324.9313   154.292
324.30101 - 324.30113 154.292
324.82101 - 324.82160 72.02
333.1101 et seq.      154.021;
                      154.319
400.701 - 400.737     154.021;
                      154.162
559.101 - 559.272     154.021;
                      154.248
560.101 et seq.       150.03
                      150.02;
560.101 - 560.293     154.021;
                      154.248
600.101 - 600.9948    150.99
600.8396              10.99
600.8701 et seq.      10.99
600.8701 - 600.8735   10.02
600.8705              10.99
600.8707              10.99
600.8707(6)           10.99
600.8709              10.99
600.8715 et seq.      10.99
722.111 - 722.128     154.021;
                      154.319
764.1 et seq.         91.05;
                      130.02
764.9a - 764.9e       10.10
                      91.05;
764.9c                94.05;
                      130.02
                      91.05;
764.9f                94.05;
                      130.02
                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.99      10.99
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
30.03      30.03
30.04      30.04
30.05      30.05
30.06      30.06
30.07      30.07
30.08      30.08
30.09      30.09
30.10      30.10
30.11      30.11
30.12      30.12
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.03      31.03
31.04      31.04
31.05      31.05
31.06      31.06
31.07      31.07
31.08      31.08
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.03      32.03
32.04      32.04
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.03      70.03
70.04      70.04
70.05      70.04
70.06      70.04
70.07      70.04
71.01      71.01
71.02      71.02
71.03      71.03
71.04      71.04
71.99      71.99
72.01      72.01
72.02      72.02
72.03      72.03
72.04      72.04
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.07      90.07
90.08      90.08
90.09      90.09
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.03      91.03
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.05;
           91.99
91.06      91.06
91.07      91.07
92.01      92.01
92.02      92.02
92.03      92.03
92.04      92.04
92.05      92.05
92.06      92.06
92.07      92.07
92.08      92.08
92.20      92.20
92.21      92.21
92.22      92.22
92.23      92.23
92.24      92.24
92.25      92.25
92.26      92.26
92.27      92.27
92.28      92.28
92.29      92.29
92.30      92.30
94.01      94.01
94.02      94.02
94.03      94.03
94.04      94.04
94.05      94.05
94.06      94.06
94.20      94.20
94.21      94.21
94.22      94.22
94.35      94.35
94.36      94.36
94.37      94.37
94.38      94.38
94.39      94.39
94.99      94.99
110.01     110.01
110.02     110.02
110.03     110.03
110.04     110.04
110.05     110.05
110.06     110.06
110.07     110.07
110.08     110.08
110.09     110.09
110.10     110.10
110.11     110.11
110.12     110.12
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.04     111.04
111.05     111.05
111.06     111.06
111.07     111.07
111.08     111.08
111.09     111.09
111.11     111.10
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
112.03     112.03
112.04     112.04
112.05     112.05
112.06     112.06
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02;
           130.99
130.99     130.99
131.01     131.01
131.02     131.02
131.03     131.03
131.04     131.04
150.01     150.01
150.02     150.02
150.03     150.03
150.04     150.04
150.05     150.05
150.06     150.06
150.07     150.07
150.08     150.08
150.09     150.09
150.10     150.10
150.99     150.99
151.01     151.01
151.02     151.02
151.03     151.03
151.04     151.04
151.05     151.05
151.06     151.06
151.07     151.07
151.20     151.20
151.21     151.21
151.22     151.22
151.23     151.23
151.99     151.99
152.01     152.01
152.02     152.02
152.03     152.03
152.04     152.04
152.05     152.05
152.06     152.06
152.07     152.07
152.08     152.08
152.09     152.09
152.10     152.10
152.11     152.11
152.25     152.25
152.26     152.26
152.27     152.27
152.28     152.28
152.29     152.29
152.30     152.30
152.31     152.31
152.32     152.32
152.33     152.33
153.01     153.01
153.02     153.02
153.03     153.03
153.04     153.04
153.05     153.05
153.06     153.06
154.001    154.001
154.002    154.002
154.004    154.003
154.005    154.004
154.006    154.005
154.020    154.020
154.021    154.021
154.035    154.035
154.036    154.036
154.037    154.037
154.038    154.038
154.039    154.039
154.040    154.040
154.041    154.041
154.042    154.042
154.043    154.043
154.044    154.044
154.045    154.045
154.046    154.046
154.047    154.047
154.048    154.048
154.049    154.049
154.050    154.050
154.051    154.051
154.052    154.052
154.053    154.053
154.054    154.054
154.055    154.055
154.056    154.056
154.057    154.057
154.058    154.058
154.059    154.059
154.060    154.060
154.061    154.061
154.062    154.062
154.063    154.063
154.064    154.064
154.065    154.065
154.066    154.066
154.067    154.067
154.068    154.068
154.069    154.069
154.070    154.070
154.071    154.071
154.072    154.072
154.085    154.085
154.086    154.086
154.087    154.087
154.100    154.100
154.101    154.101
154.102    154.102
154.103    154.103
154.104    154.104
154.105    154.105
154.120    154.120
154.121    154.121
154.122    154.122
154.123    154.123
154.124    154.124
154.125    154.125
154.140    154.140
154.141    154.141
154.142    154.142
154.143    154.143
154.144    154.144
154.145    154.145
154.160    154.160
154.161    154.161
154.162    154.162
154.163    154.163
154.164    154.164
154.165    154.165
154.166    154.166
154.167    154.167
154.168    154.168
154.169    154.169
154.170    154.170
154.171    154.171
154.185    154.185
154.186    154.186
154.187    154.187
154.188    154.188
154.189    154.189
154.190    154.190
154.205    154.205
154.206    154.206
154.207    154.207
154.208    154.208
154.209    154.209
154.210    154.210
154.211    154.211
154.212    154.212
154.213    154.213
154.230    154.225
154.231    154.226
154.232    154.227
154.233    154.228
154.234    154.229
154.235    154.230
154.236    154.231
154.237    154.232
154.238    154.233
154.250    154.265
154.251    154.266
154.252    154.267
154.253    154.268
154.254    154.269
154.255    154.270
154.256    154.271
154.257    154.285
154.258    154.286
154.259    154.287
154.260    154.288
154.261    154.289
154.262    154.290
154.263    154.291
154.264    154.292
154.265    154.293
154.266    154.294
154.267    154.295
154.268    154.296
154.269    154.297
154.270    154.298
154.271    154.299
154.272    154.300
154.273    154.301
154.274    154.302
154.275    154.303
154.290    154.315
154.291    154.316
154.292    154.317
154.293    154.318
154.294    154.319
154.305    154.330
154.306    154.331
154.307    154.332
154.308    154.333
154.309    154.334
154.310    154.335
154.311    154.336
154.312    154.337
154.313    154.338
154.314    154.339
154.315    154.340
154.316    154.341
154.317    154.342
154.318    154.343
154.319    154.344
154.320    154.345
154.321    154.346
154.322    154.347
154.323    154.348
154.324    154.360
154.325    154.361
154.326    154.362
154.327    154.363
154.328    154.364
154.329    154.365
154.330    154.366
154.331    154.367
154.332    154.368
154.345    154.380
154.346    154.381
154.347    154.382
154.348    154.383
154.349    154.384
154.350    154.385
154.351    154.386
154.352    154.387
154.353    154.388
154.354    154.389
154.355    154.390
154.356    154.391
154.357    154.392
154.358    154.393
154.359    154.394
154.370    154.405
154.371    154.406
154.372    154.407
154.373    154.408
154.374    154.409
154.375    154.410
154.376    154.411
154.377    154.412
154.378    154.413
154.379    154.414
154.999    154.999
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-21-1976   70.03
-        11-16-2004  31.08
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        --          32.02
4        2-20-1967   92.01 -
                     92.08
11       3-18-1968   70.04
                     91.01 -
12       3-18-1968   91.07;
                     91.99
14       3-18-1968   90.01 -
                     90.09
                     152.01 -
17       3-18-1968   152.11;
                     152.25 -
                     152.33
                     151.01 -
18       3-18-1968   151.07;
                     151.99
                     71.01 -
19       3-18-1968   71.04;
                     71.99
20       3-18-1968   92.20 -
                     92.30
22       3-18-1968   153.01 -
                     153.06
23       3-18-1968   111.01 -
                     111.10
                     94.35 -
25       3-18-1968   94.39;
                     94.99
26       1-1-1973    72.01 -
                     72.04
28       10-19-1976  131.01 -
                     131.04
29       7-18-1978   112.01 -
                     112.06
30       12-18-1979  70.01 -
                     70.03
31       12-18-1979  32.01 -
                     32.04
32       8-20-1985   TSO, Table I
                     151.20 -
34       8-18-1987   151.23;
                     151.99
                     130.01;
13a      5-17-1988   130.02;
                     130.99
                     94.20 -
39       2-16-1993   94.22;
                     94.99
41       6-18-1998   130.02;
                     130.99
42       7-21-1998   130.02;
                     130.99
                     93.01 -
37       9-21-1999   93.03;
                     93.99
44       2-20-2001   152.27
44       3-12-2001   111.03;
                     112.04
45       11-19-2002  31.01 -
                     31.06
                     150.01 -
46       2-18-2003   150.10;
                     150.99
                     94.01 -
                     94.03;
43       4-15-2003   94.05;
                     94.06;
                     94.99
47       11-16-2004  31.07
                     154.001 -
                     154.005;
                     154.020;
                     154.021;
                     154.035 -
                     154.072;
                     154.085 -
                     154.087;
                     154.100 -
                     154.105;
                     154.120 -
                     154.125;
                     154.140 -
                     154.145;
                     154.160 -
                     154.171;
                     154.185 -
                     154.190;
48       6-21-2005   154.205 -
                     154.213;
                     154.225 -
                     154.233;
                     154.265 -
                     154.271;
                     154.285 -
                     154.303;
                     154.315 -
                     154.319;
                     154.330 -
                     154.348;
                     154.360 -
                     154.368;
                     154.380 -
                     154.394;
                     154.405 -
                     154.414;
                     154.999
29A      10-17-2006  112.05
                     154.103;
                     154.123;
                     154.143;
                     154.163;
49       6-19-2007   154.188;
                     154.208;
                     154.228;
                     154.315;
                     154.317
                     94.03;
50       11-26-2007  94.05;
                     94.06
51       4-17-2012   TSO, Table I
10.99C   9-15-2015   10.99
95       9-15-2015   95.01 -
                     94.04
                     96.01 -
-        12-15-2015  96.11;
                     96.99
-        3-15-2016   154.245 -
                     154.250
-        6-21-2016   96.10
-        7-29-2016   96.04
-        5-16-2017   92.25;
                     92.99
- (2)    5-16-2017   92.25
                     110.02;
                     110.03;
-        5-22-2018   110.05;
                     110.13;
                     110.14
                     72.03;
-        8-14-2018   91.05;
                     154.021;
                     154.070
-        11-13-2018  113.01 -
                     113.04
-        3-12-2019   94.02
                     96.02 -
-        9-17-2019   96.05;
                     96.12;
                     96.99
 
