VILLAGE OF SEBEWAING, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 6-16-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF SEBEWAING,
MICHIGAN, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into on ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Political
Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF SEBEWAING:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Village of Sebewaing”.
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   Rules of Construction: General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   General Provisions
         31.   Village Officials and Organizations
         32.   Police Department
         33.   Special Assessments
         34.   Village Policies
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Water Service
         51.   Sewer Facilities
         52.   Cross Connection Control
         53.   Water Wells
         54.   Light and Water Commission
         55.   Waste Water Treatment Commission
         56.   Garbage
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   Traffic Codes Adopted
         71.   Parking
         72.   School Buses
         73.   Motorcycles, Mopeds, Skate Boards, Roller Blades, Roller Skis,
and the like
         74.   Snowmobiles
         75.   Traffic Regulations
         76.   Speeds on Sebewaing River
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Alcoholic Liquor
         91.   Animals
         92.   Blight
         93.   Fire Prevention
         94.   Flags
         95.   Noise Control
         96.   Nuisances
         97.   Parks and Public Grounds
         98.   Streets and Sidewalks
         99.   Telecommunications
         100.   Trees
         101.   Weed Control
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Peddlers and Solicitors
         111.   Cable Antenna Franchises
         112.   Medical Marijuana Dispensaries
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   Offenses Against Persons
         131.   Offenses Against Property
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Code
         151.   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
         152.   Dangerous Structures
         153.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         I.   Zoning
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Michigan Compiled Laws
   References to 1988 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchise, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this  3rd day of  October ,  2011 .
ATTEST:
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short title
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Contents of code
   
10.04   Amendment procedure
   
10.05   Publication and distribution of code
   
10.06   Publication and distribution of amendments
   
10.07   Responsibility
   
10.08   Headings
   
10.09   Title of officers to include deputy or subordinate
   
10.10   Tense
   
10.11   Notice
   
10.12   Severability
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Sebewaing Village
Code.
(1988 Code, § 1.102)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any way or place providing a secondary means of ingress and egress
from a property.
   CHARTER. The General Law Village Act, Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L. §§ 61.1 et
seq.
   CODE. The Sebewaing Village Code as designated in §
10.01.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided
in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when expressed in
days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be excluded;
and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a legal
holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. County of Huron, Michigan.
   JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
   MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Chapter 87, being M.C.L. §§ 600.8701 et
seq., as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense
of any criminal offense in this code.
   OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer, department,
board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the reference shall
be construed as if followed by the words "of the Village of Sebewaing,
Michigan." Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any OFFICER of the village
is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, reference to the
OFFICER shall mean and include the OFFICER or his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
   ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the Village of Sebewaing and all amendments
thereto.
   PERSON. Any individual, co-partnership, corporation, association, club,
joint adventure, estate, trust and any other group or combination acting as a
unit, and the individuals constituting that group or unit.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to or upon which the public resorts or travels,
whether the place is owned or controlled by the village or any agency of the
state, or is a place to or upon which the public resorts or travels by custom,
or by invitation, express or implied.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or lateral lines
and the right-of-way lines which is intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the State
of Michigan.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width subject to an easement for public right-
of-way or owned in fee simple by the village, county or state, of every way or
place, of whatever nature whenever any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right for purposes of public travel.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sebewaing.
(1988 Code, § 1.103)
§ 10.03 CONTENTS OF CODE.
   This code contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the
village. The adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or
permitting any use or the continuation of any use of a structure or premises in
violation of any ordinance of the village in effect on the effective date of
this code. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature in effect on the
effective date of this code are hereby repealed.
(1988 Code, § 1.101)
§ 10.04 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   This code shall be amended by ordinance. The title of each amendatory
ordinance, adapted to the particular circumstances and purposes of the
amendment shall be substantially as follows.
   (A)   To amend any section.
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION    (OR SECTIONS    AND    ) OF CHAPTER         OF
THE VILLAGE CODE.
   (B)   To insert a new section or chapter.
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE VILLAGE CODE BY ADDING A NEW SECTION         (NEW
SECTIONS OR A NEW CHAPTER, as the case may be) WHICH NEW SECTION (SECTIONS OR
CHAPTER) SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS SECTION       (SECTIONS     AND     ) OF
CHAPTER           (or proper designation if a chapter is added) OF THE CODE.
   (c)   To repeal a section or chapter.
AN ORDINANCE TO REPEAL SECTION      (OR SECTIONS    AND    ) OF
CHAPTER              (as the case may be) OF THE VILLAGE CODE.
(1988 Code, § 1.104)
§ 10.05 PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CODE.
   (A)   Copies of the code shall be published in loose-leaf form and shall be
distributed to village officers and employees as the Village Council shall
direct.
   (B)   Each loose-leaf copy of the code shall remain the property of the
village and shall be turned over by each officer having custody thereof upon
expiration of his or her term of office to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   A copy of this code shall be published and made available to the
public at a reasonable charge. In addition, the Clerk shall keep one copy of
the code assigned to him or her available for public inspection during office
hours.
(1988 Code, § 1.100)
§ 10.06 PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the code shall be published in form suitable for insertion in
this code. The Clerk shall distribute these copies to the officers of the
village having copies of the code assigned to them. Each officer assigned a
copy of the code shall be responsible for maintaining the same and for the
proper insertion of amendatory pages as received. Each copy of the code shall
remain the property of the village and shall be turned over by each officer
having custody thereof upon expiration of his or her term of office to his or
her successor, or to the Village Clerk, in case he or she shall have no
successor.
(1988 Code, § 1.105)
§ 10.07 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, by an amendment thereof or by
any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, the prohibition shall extend to and
include the causing, securing, aiding or abetting of another person to do the
act.
(1988 Code, § 1.106)
§ 10.08 HEADINGS.
   No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in
any chapter or section heading.
(1988 Code, § 1.107)
§ 10.09 TITLE OF OFFICERS TO INCLUDE DEPUTY OR SUBORDINATE.
   Whenever by the provisions of this code, any officer of the village is
assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, the title of the
officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
(1988 Code, § 1.108)
§ 10.10 TENSE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context, all
words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be limited to
the time of adoption of this code, but shall extend to and include the time of
the happening of any act, event or requirement for which provision is made
therein, either as a power, immunity, requirement or prohibition.
(1988 Code, § 1.109)
§ 10.11 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice regarding sidewalk construction or repairs, sewer or water
connections, dangerous structures, abating nuisances or any other act, the
expense of which if performed by the village may be assessed against the
premises under the provisions of this code, shall, except as otherwise provided
by the village, be served:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office or place of business with some person of
suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by registered or certified mail to the owner
at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the owner is unknown, by posting the notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises for five days.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by any village officer unless
permission is given by the officer to remove the notice.
(1988 Code, § 1.110)
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   It is the legislative intent of the Village Council, in adopting this code,
that all provisions and sections of this code be liberally construed to protect
and preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
village; and should any provision or section of this code be held
unconstitutional or invalid, the holding shall not be construed as affecting
the validity of any of the remaining provisions or sections, it being the
intent that this code shall stand, notwithstanding the invalidity of any
provision or section thereof. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
amendment of any section or chapter of this code and to any chapter added
hereto, whether or not the wording of this section is set forth in the
amendatory ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1.112)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil infraction. A violation of this code or rules substantially
corresponding to the act that is designated a civil infraction is not a crime
and shall not be punishable by imprisonment or a penal fine. A civil infraction
shall not be considered a lesser included offense of any criminal offense.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code
for any particular provision or section, every person convicted of a violation
of any provision of this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in
pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs
of prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both a fine
and imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in
the ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the
greater penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which
any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty
provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall
apply to the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty
is re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 1.111)
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
         
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
33.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
         
34.   VILLAGE POLICIES
         
35.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Non-partisan elections
   
30.02   Compensation of officers
   
30.03   Annual reports and audits
§ 30.01 NON-PARTISAN ELECTIONS.
   As authorized by the General Law Village Act, being Public Act 3 of 1985,
being M.C.L. § 63.3, as amended, village elections shall be non-partisan.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2000)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The President of the village shall be paid a monthly salary equal to
the sum of $60 for each regular meeting, general or special, of the Village
Council actually attended by him or her during his or her term of office.
(1988 Code, § 1.200)
   (B)   The Trustees of the village shall be paid a monthly salary equal to
the sum of $50 for each regular meeting, general or special, of the Village
Council attended during his or her term of office.
(1988 Code, § 1.201)
   (C)   The President and Trustees shall be compensated only for those
meetings actually attended.
   (D)   The salary due the President and each Trustee for meetings actually
attended may be payable on the first payroll of each new month.
(1988 Code, § 1.202)
   (E)   The rate of compensation as set forth herein may be amended by
resolution of the Village Council.
   (F)   When the Village President Pro-Tem serves in the absence of the
President, he or she shall be compensated at the same rate as the President for
each regular meeting, general or special meeting of the Village Council
attended during his or her term of office.
(Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 3-4-1968; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
7-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-21-1985; Ord. passed 10-20-2003; Ord. passed 1-5-2004;
Ord. 2009-, passed - -; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 30.03 ANNUAL REPORTS AND AUDITS.
   Annual reports and audits are completed per Michigan state law requirements
as advised by the Village Auditor.
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Village Officials
   
31.15   Terms of office; elected officials
   
31.16   Appointment of clerk and treasurer
   
31.17   Effective date
Committees
   
31.25   Creation authority; membership
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 TERMS OF OFFICE; ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Three of the Village Trustees shall be elected at each biennial
village election for the term of four years and until their successors are
qualified.
   (B)   The President shall be elected for the term of four years and until
his or her successor is qualified.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2004; Ord. passed 4-1-2013; Ord. passed 4-21-2014)
§ 31.16 APPOINTMENT OF CLERK AND TREASURER.
   The Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer shall be appointed officers of
the village. Both the Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer shall be
nominated by the President of the village and appointed by Council for an
indefinite period, and shall be responsible to and serve at the pleasure of the
Council with their compensation fixed by Council.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2013)
§ 31.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 45 days after the date of adoption unless
a petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered electors of the
village is filed with the Village Clerk within the 45 day period, in which case
this subchapter takes effect upon approval at an election held on the question.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2013)
COMMITTEES
§ 31.25 CREATION AUTHORITY; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Village Council has the authority to create and modify committees,
as well as the meeting dates and times.
   (B)   In November of each year, two or more members shall be appointed to
each committee.
   (C)   Wherever possible, one member of each committee should be a carryover
member. The President shall be an ex-officio member of all committees.
   (D)   In the absence of the President, the following shall preside over the
meeting in the order listed: President Pro-Tem, Committee Chairperson, senior
member on the committee. Two voting members of any committee shall constitute a
quorum.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Minimum standards adopted
§ 32.01 MINIMUM STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   Minimum standards adopted. The minimum employment standards for law
enforcement officers as established and adopted by the State Law Enforcement
Officers Training Council in accordance with Public Act 203 of 1965, being
M.C.L. §§ 28.601 through 28.616, as amended, are hereby adopted as follows.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Minimum age of 18 years;
      (3)   Graduation from high school or equivalent. Equivalent defined as
having attained a passing score on the General Education Development test
indicating high school graduation level;
      (4)   Fingerprinting of applicants with a search of local, state and
national fingerprint files to disclose any criminal record;
      (5)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony offense;
      (6)   Good moral character as determined by a favorable report following
a comprehensive background investigation covering school and employment
records, home environment, personal traits and integrity. Consideration will be
given to any and all law violations, including traffic and conservation law
convictions as indicating a lack of good character;
      (7)   Acceptable, physical, emotional and mental fitness as established
by a licensed physician following examination to determine the applicant is
free from any physical, emotional or mental condition which might adversely
affect his or her performance of duty as a police officer;
      (8)   The trainee shall possess normal hearing and normal color vision.
He or she shall be free from any impediments of the senses. He or she must
possess normal visual functions and visual acuity in each eye correctable to
20/20. The trainee must be physically sound, well developed physically, with
height and weight in relation to each other and to age, as indicated by
accepted medical standards, and in possession of his or her extremities. He or
she shall be free from any physical defects, chronic diseases, organic or
functional conditions or mental instabilities which may tend to impair
efficient performance of duty or which might endanger the lives of others,
himself or herself if he or she lacks these qualifications;
      (9)   A declaration of the applicant's mental history shall become a part
of the background investigation. The information shall be available to the
examining physician;
      (10)   An oral review shall be held by the hiring authority or his or her
representative to determine the applicant's acceptability for a police officer
position and to assess appearance, background and ability to communicate; and
      (11)   Recruitment and employment practices and standards shall be in
compliance with existing state statutes governing this activity.
(1988 Code, § 1.300) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
CHAPTER 33: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Council authority
   
33.03   Preliminary proceedings
   
33.04   Village Council determination
   
33.05   Special assessment roll
   
33.06   Hearing and confirmation
   
33.07   Assessing single lots
   
33.08   Attachment of liens
   
33.09   Payment of special assessments
   
33.10   Delinquent special assessments
   
33.11   Additional assessments; refunds
   
33.12   Special assessment accounts
   
33.13   Contested assessments
   
33.14   Reassessment in event of invalidity
   
33.15   Collection by court action
   
33.16   Combination of projects
   
33.17   Division of parcels
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, shall
include the cost of services, plans, condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices,
advertising, financing, construction, legal fees, interest on special
assessment bonds not to exceed one year and all other costs incident to the
making of the improvement, the special assessments therefor and the financing
thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement, any part of the cost of
which is to be assessed against one or more lots or parcels of land to be
especially benefitted thereby, in proportion to the benefits derived therefrom.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.02 COUNCIL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Village Council shall have the power to initiate a local public
improvement and to assess and reassess the cost, or any portion thereof, for
improvement to the property especially benefitted by the improvement in the
manner hereinafter provided. Any proposed project to be paid for in full or in
part by a special assessment requires approval by an affirmative vote of two-
thirds of the members of the Council.
   (B)   The Village Council, in order to ascertain whether or not a reasonable
number of property owners to be assessed desire any particular improvements to
be made, may request and receive a petition therefor, or may receive a petition
voluntarily presented by property owners whose aggregate property in the
proposed district was assessed for not less than 51% of the total assessed
value of the privately owned real property located therein, as shown by the
last preceding general tax records of the village. This petition shall contain
a brief description of the property owned by the respective signatories thereof
and if it shall appear that the petition is signed by at least 51% as
aforesaid, the Clerk shall certify same to the Village Council. The petition
shall be addressed to the Village Council and filed with the Clerk and shall in
no event be considered directory but as advisory only.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.03 PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Before the Village Council shall consider the making of any local
improvement, the Village Council shall cause to be prepared a report which
shall include necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates
of cost, an estimate of the life of the improvement, a description of the
assessment district or districts and any other pertinent information as will
permit the Village Council to decide the cost, extent and necessity of the
improvement proposed, what part or proportion thereof should be paid by special
assessments upon the property especially benefitted and what part, if any,
should be paid by the village at large, and determine the number of
installments in which assessments may be paid. The Village Council shall not
finally determine to proceed with the making of any local public improvement
until the report has been filed, nor until after a public hearing has been held
by the Village Council for the purpose of hearing objections to the making of
the improvement.
   (B)   After receiving the report required in division (A) above for making
any local public improvement as requested in the resolution of the Village
Council, and the Village Council having reviewed the report, a resolution may
be passed tentatively determining the necessity of the improvement, setting
forth the nature thereof, prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of
the improvement shall be paid by special assessment upon the property
especially benefitted, determination of benefits received by affected
properties, and what part, if any, shall be paid by the village at large;
designating the limits of the special assessment district to be affected,
designating whether to be assessed according to frontage or other benefits,
placing the complete information on file in the office of the Village Clerk,
where the same may be found for examination, and directing the Village Clerk to
give notice of public hearing on the proposed improvement, at which time and
place opportunity will be given interested persons to be heard. The notice
shall be given by two publications, one publication to be at least ten days
prior to the hearing, the publication to be in a newspaper published or
circulated within the village and by first class mail addressed to each owner
or person in interest in property to be assessed as shown by the last general
tax assessment roll of the village. The notice by mail shall be mailed at least
ten full days prior to the date of the hearing. The hearing required by this
section may be held at any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Village
Council.
   (C)   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons
interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Village
Council may modify the scope of the local public improvement in a manner as it
shall deem to be in the best interest of the village as a whole; provided that
if the amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district, then
another hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in division (B)
above.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.04 VILLAGE COUNCIL DETERMINATION.
   (A)   After the report required in §
33.03 has been received and a public hearing held, the Village Council may, by
resolution, determine to make the improvement and to defray the whole or any
part of the cost of the improvement by special assessment upon the property
especially benefitted in proportion to the benefits thereto. By resolution, the
Village Council shall approve the plans and specifications for the improvement;
determine the estimated cost thereof; determine what proportion of the cost
shall be paid by special assessment upon the property especially benefitted and
what part, if any, shall be general obligation of the village; determine the
number of installments in which assessments may be paid; determine the rate of
interest to be charged on installments, not to exceed 10% per annum; designate
the district or land and premises upon which special assessments shall be
levied; and direct the Village Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in
accordance with the Village Council's determination.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the Village Council
may, in its discretion, delay the preparation of the special assessment roll
until after the completion of the improvement, in which case, the actual cost
thereof shall be reported to the Village Council, and the special assessment
roll shall be then made for the actual costs rather than for the estimated cost
as in other cases.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.05 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The Assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and
parcels of land within the designated district benefitted by the proposed
improvement and assess to each lot or parcel of land the proportionate amount
benefitted thereby. The amount spread in each case shall be based upon the
detailed estimate of cost as approved by the Village Council or the actual cost
if the preparation of the assessment roll is delayed until completion of the
improvement under §
33.04(B).
   (B)   When the Assessor shall have completed the assessment roll, he or she
shall file the same with the Village Clerk for presentation to the Village
Council for review and certification by it.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.06 HEARING AND CONFIRMATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the Village Council, by
resolution, shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the Village Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and
place the Village Council will meet to review the special assessment roll and
direct the Village Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of
affording an opportunity for interested persons to be heard. The notice shall
be given by two publications, one publication being at least ten full days
prior to the date of the hearing, in a newspaper published or circulated within
the village and by first class mail addressed to each owner of or person in
interest in property to be assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment
roll of the village, mailed at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
The hearing required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned or
special meeting of the Council. At this meeting, any persons deeming themselves
aggrieved by the special assessment roll shall present their objections thereto
in writing with the Village Clerk prior to the close of the hearing, which
written objections shall specify in what respect they deem themselves
aggrieved. The Assessor shall be present at every meeting of the Village
Council at which a special assessment is to be reviewed.
   (B)   The Village Council shall meet at the time and place designated for
the review of the special assessment roll, and at the meeting, or a proper
adjournment thereof, shall consider all objections thereto submitted in
writing. The Council may correct the roll as to any special assessment or
description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors appearing therein; or
it may, by resolution, annul the assessment roll and direct that new
proceedings be instituted. The same proceedings shall be followed in making a
new roll as in the making of the original roll. If, after hearing all
objections and making a record of the changes as the Council deems justified,
the Council determines that it is satisfied with the special assessment roll
and that assessments are in proportion to benefits received, it shall thereupon
pass a resolution reciting the determinations, confirming the roll, placing it
on file in the office of the Village Clerk and directing the Village Clerk to
attach his or her warrant to a certified copy thereof within ten days therein
commanding the Assessor to spread and the Treasurer to collect the various sums
and amounts appearing thereon as directed by the Council. The roll shall have
the date of confirmation endorsed thereon and shall from that date be final and
conclusive for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.07 ASSESSING SINGLE LOTS.
   (A)   When any expense shall have been incurred by the village upon or in
respect to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against the
premises and the owner thereof, and is not of that class required to be
prorated among several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment
district, an account of the labor, material or service for which expense was
incurred with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which the
expense was incurred, and the name of the owner if known, shall be reported to
the Village Clerk who shall immediately charge and bill the owner, if known.
The Assessor shall annually on or before January 1, or at another time as he or
she may deem available, prepare a special assessment roll covering all charges
which shall not have been paid. The roll shall be filed with the Clerk who
shall present the names to the Village Council.
   (B)   The provisions of the preceding sections of this chapter with
reference to special assessments generally and the proceedings necessary to be
had before making the improvements shall not apply to assessments contemplated
in the above division.
   (C)   Upon confirmation of any special assessment roll authorized by this
section, the Village Council shall determine the number of installments in
which assessments may be paid and the rate of interest to be charged on
installments, but not to exceed 10% per annum.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.08 ATTACHMENT OF LIENS.
   All special assessments contained in any special assessment roll, including
any part thereof deferred as to payment, shall, from the date of confirmation
of the roll, constitute a lien upon the respective lots or parcels of land
assessed and until paid shall be a charge against the respective owners of the
several lots and parcels of land. The lien shall be of the same character and
effect as the lien created for village taxes and shall include accrued interest
and penalties. No judgment or decree, nor any act of the Village Council
vacating a special assessment, shall destroy or impair the lien of the village
upon the premises assessed for the amount of the assessment as may be equitably
charged against the same, or as by a regular mode of proceeding might be
lawfully assessed thereon.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.09 PAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   All special assessments, except the installments thereof as the
Council shall make payable at a future time as provided in this chapter, shall
be due and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
   (B)   After the Village Council has confirmed the roll, the Village
Treasurer shall notify by first class mail each property owner on the roll that
the roll has been filed, stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment,
and shall give notice by one publication in a newspaper published or circulated
within the village that the special assessment roll has been filed in his or
her office and specifying when and where payment shall be made thereon. Failure
on the part of the Village Treasurer to give notice or of the owner to receive
the notice shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the village or
any assessment thereon, nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
   (C)   The Village Council may provide for the payment of special assessments
in annual installments. Annual installments shall not exceed ten in number, the
first installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on a date as the
Village Council may determine and deferred installments being due annually
thereafter, or in the discretion of the Village Council, may be spread upon and
made a part of each annual village tax roll thereafter until all are paid.
Interest shall be charged on all deferred installments at a rate not to exceed
10% per annum, or any other rate as may be established by the Village Council
in accordance with state statute, commencing on the due date of the first
installment, or 90 days after the date of confirmation if the first installment
is not due upon confirmation, and payable on the due date of each subsequent
installment. The full amount of all or any deferred installments, with interest
accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid in advance of the due dates
thereof. If the full assessment or the first installment thereof shall be due
upon confirmation, each property owner shall have 90 days from the date of
confirmation to pay the full amount of the assessment, or the full amount of
any installments thereof, without interest or penalty. Following the 90-day
period, the assessment or first installment thereof shall, if unpaid, be
considered as delinquent and the same penalties shall be collected on the
unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as are provided by law to be
collected on delinquent general village taxes. Deferred installments shall be
collected without penalty until 90 days after the due date thereof, after which
time the installments shall be considered as delinquent and the penalties on
the installments shall be collected as are provided by law to be collected on
delinquent general village taxes.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.10 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid in the first Monday of
March following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as
unpaid by the Treasurer to the Village Council. Any delinquent assessment,
together with all accrued interest shall be transferred and reassessed on the
next annual village tax roll in a column headed "Special Assessments" with a
penalty of 4% upon the total amount added thereto, and when so transferred and
reassessed then the tax roll shall be collected in all respects as provided for
the collection of village taxes.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.11 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   The Village Clerk shall within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special assessment roll to correspond
therewith. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by less than 5%,
the same shall be reported to the Council which may place the excess in the
village treasury or make a refund thereof pro rata according to the assessment.
If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by 5% or more, the entire excess
shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the village assessment roll
upon which the assessment has been levied, pro rata according to the
assessment. No refunds of special assessments may be made which impair or
contravene the provision of any outstanding obligation or bond secured in whole
or part by special assessments. In the case of assessments due in installments,
the Village Council may order the refund given by credit against the
installments last coming due. When any special assessment roll shall prove
insufficient to meet the cost of the improvement for which it was made, the
Village Council may make an additional pro rata assessment, but the total
amount assessed against any one parcel of land shall not exceed the benefits
received by the lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.12 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay the cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds be
authorized.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.13 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   An action to contest collection of an assessment shall be instituted under
the Tax Tribunal Act, being Public Act 1860 of 1993, being M.C.L. §§ 205.701
through 205.779.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.14 REASSESSMENT IN EVENT OF INVALIDITY.
   If a portion of an assessment roll is determined to be illegal, in whole or
in part, or whenever the Village Council shall deem any special assessment
invalid for any reason whatever, in whole or in part, the Village Council may
revoke its confirmation, correct the illegality or defect, if possible, or
reconfirm it. Property which is not involved in the illegality may not be
assessed more than was imposed upon the original confirmation without further
notice and hearing thereon as provided for in the original assessment. If any
portion of the original assessment shall have been collected and not refunded,
it shall be applied upon the reassessment and the reassessment shall to that
extent be deemed satisfied. If more than the amount reassessed shall have been
collected, the balance shall be refunded to the persons making the payment.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.15 COLLECTION BY COURT ACTION.
   In addition to any other remedies and without impairing the lien therefor,
any delinquent special assessment, together with interest and penalties, may be
collected as delinquent village property taxes or by a suit at law in the name
of the village against the person assessed, in any court having jurisdiction of
the amount. If in any action it shall appear that by reason of any
irregularities or informalities the assessment has not been properly made
against the defendant or upon the premises sought to be charged, the court may,
nevertheless, on satisfactory proof that expense has been incurred by the
village which is a proper charge against the defendant or the premises in
question, render judgment for the amount properly chargeable against the
defendant or upon the premises.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.16 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Village Council may combine several districts into one project for the
purpose of effecting a saving in the costs. There shall be established for each
district separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 33.17 DIVISION OF PARCELS.
   Should any lots or lands be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divided into installments, the Assessor shall apportion the
uncollected amounts upon the several lots and lands so divided, and shall enter
the several amounts as amendments upon the special assessment roll. The Village
Treasurer shall, within ten days after the apportionment, send notice of the
action to the persons concerned at their last known address by first class
mail. The apportionment shall be final and conclusive on all parties unless
protest in writing is received by the Village Treasurer within 20 days of the
mailing of the aforesaid notice.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2001)
CHAPTER 34: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
Purchasing, Contracting and Selling Procedure
   
34.01   Purchasing agent
   
34.02   Purchases or contracts $5,000 or less
   
34.03   Purchases or contracts over $5,000
   
34.04   Exceptions to competitive bidding
   
34.05   Sale of property
   
34.06   Purchase or sale of real estate
PURCHASING, CONTRACTING AND SELLING PROCEDURE
§ 34.01 PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Village Clerk shall act as purchasing agent of the village, unless
another officer or employee shall be designated to act as purchasing agent by
the President in writing filed with the Clerk. The purchasing agent, with the
approval of the President, shall adopt any necessary rules respecting
requisitions and purchase orders.
(1988 Code, § 1.400) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-5-1991)
§ 34.02 PURCHASES OR CONTRACTS $5,000 OR LESS.
   Department heads are authorized to spend no more than $2,000 without prior
approval from the Committee. Department heads are authorized to spend no more
than $10,000 for emergency maintenance items without prior approval from the
Committee. The Committee is authorized to spend no more than $5,000 on capital
outlay expenditures without prior approval of the Village Council. Expenditures
for purchases must be for a budgeted item or for routine purchases within
budget limits. If an expenditure would exceed the budget, the transaction must
have approval of the Village Council.
(1988 Code, § 1.401) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-5-1991; Ord. passed 10-6-1997; Ord. passed 4-21-2014; Ord. passed 7-5-2016;
Ord. passed 6-16-2025)
§ 34.03 PURCHASES OR CONTRACTS OVER $5,000.
   Any expenditure for supplies, materials or equipment, construction project
or contract obligating the village, where the amount of the village's
obligation is in excess of $5,000, shall be governed by the provisions of this
section, subject to §
34.04.
   (A)   The expenditure shall be made the subject of a written contract. A
purchase order shall be a sufficient written contract only in cases where the
expenditure is in the usual and ordinary course of the village's affairs; and
in no case shall it be sufficient for the construction of public works or the
contracting for supplies or services over any period of time, or where the
quality of the goods or materials or the scope of the services bargained is not
wholly standardized.
   (B)   Notice inviting sealed bids shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation or posted in three places in the village, at least five
days before the final date for submitting bids thereon. The notice shall give
briefly the specifications of the supplies, materials or equipment or
construction project or other matter to be contracted for, and shall state the
amount of bond or other security, if any is to be required, to be given with
the bid and the amount of bond or other security to be given with the contract.
The notice shall state the time limit, the place of filing and the time of
opening bids and shall also state that the right is reserved to reject any or
all bids. Any other conditions of award of the contract shall also be stated in
general terms.
   (C)   The purchasing agent shall also solicit bids from a reasonable number
of qualified prospective bidders as are known to him or her by sending each a
copy of the notice requesting bids.
   (D)   The Council shall prescribe the amount of any security to be deposited
with any bid, which deposit shall be in the form of cash, certified or
cashier's check or bond written by a surety company authorized to do business
in the state. The amount of the security shall be expressed in terms of
percentage of the bid submitted. The Council shall also fix the amount of the
performance bond, and in the case of construction contracts, the amount of the
labor and material bond to be required of the successful bidders.
   (E)   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place designated in the
notice requesting bids in the presence of the President and either the Clerk or
the Treasurer. The bids shall thereupon be carefully examined and tabulated and
reported to the Council with the recommendation of the purchasing agent at the
next Council meeting. After tabulation, all bids may be inspected by the
competing bidders.
   (F)   When the bids are submitted to the Council, the contract to be
executed shall also be submitted; and if the Council shall find any of the bids
to be satisfactory, it shall award the contract to the lowest responsible
bidders, unless the Council shall determine that the public interest will be
better served by accepting a higher bid, and shall authorize execution of the
contract upon execution of the contract by the successful bidder and the filing
of any bonds which may have been required. The award may be by resolution or
ordinance. The Council shall have the right to reject any or all bids and to
waive irregularities in bidding and to accept bids which do not conform in
every respect to the bidding requirements.
   (G)   At the time the contract is executed by him or her, the contractor
shall file a bond executed by a surety company, authorized to do business in
the state, to the village, conditioned upon the performance of the contract and
saving the village harmless from all losses or damage caused to any person or
property by reason of any carelessness or negligence by the contractor and from
all expense of inspection, engineering and otherwise caused by the delay in the
completion of any improvement, and further conditioned to pay all laborers,
mechanics, sub-contractors and material men, as well as all just debts, dues
and demands incurred in the performance of the work.
   (H)   All bids, deposits of cash or certified or cashier's checks may be
retained until the contract is awarded and signed. If any successful bidder
fails or refuses to enter into the contract awarded to him or her within five
days after the same has been awarded, or file any bond required within the same
time, the deposit accompanying his or her bid shall be forfeited to the
village; and the Council may, in its discretion, award the contract to the next
low responsible bidder, unless the Council shall determine that the public
interest will be better served by accepting a higher bid, or the contract may
be re-advertised.
(1988 Code, § 1.402) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-5-1991; Ord. passed 4-21-2014)
§ 34.04 EXCEPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   Subject to prior approval of the Council, competitive bidding shall not be
required in the following cases:
   (A)   Where the product or material contracted for is not competitive in
nature and the purchasing agent so certifies to the Council in writing;
   (B)   In the employment of professional services;
   (C)   Where the Council shall determine that the public interest will be
best served by joint purchase with, or purchase from, another unit of
government; and
   (D)   Where no advantage will result to the village and this fact has been
certified to the Council in writing by the purchasing agent.
(1988 Code, § 1.403) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-5-1991)
§ 34.05 SALE OF PROPERTY.
   Whenever any personal property belonging to the village is no longer needed
for corporate or public purposes, the same may be offered for sale. Personal
property not exceeding $1,000 in value may be sold for cash by the department
head, upon approval of the President. Whenever any personal property belonging
to the village is no longer needed and has a value between $1,000 and $5,000,
the same may be offered for sale upon approval by the Committee after receiving
quotations or competitive bids for the best price. Personal property with a
value in excess of $5,000 may be sold after posting and receiving competitive
bids, as provided in §
34.03, and after approval of the sale has been given by the Council. In the
event a new purchase includes trading in village equipment, the trade-in
equipment may be disposed of in trade without further bidding requirements.
(1988 Code, § 1.404) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-5-1991; Ord. passed 6-1-2015; Ord. passed 3-20-2017)
§ 34.06 PURCHASE OR SALE OF REAL ESTATE.
   Real estate may be purchased when deemed necessary or convenient for the
public good by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elect of the
Council. Real estate may be sold or leased when not required for corporate
purposes upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elect of the
Council. Sales of real estate, excepting the sale of public parks, shall be
subject to the requirements of §
34.03 of this chapter, unless the Village Council elects by an affirmative vote
of two-thirds of the members of the Village Council to sell the real estate at
private sale, determining that the public interest would be best served by
private sale. The notice inviting bids shall contain a brief description of the
property, in addition to the information specified in §
34.03(B) of this chapter. Public parks shall not be sold without first
obtaining the consent of the majority of the qualified electors of the village.
(1988 Code, § 1.405) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-5-1991)
CHAPTER 35: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
Section
Original Plan
   
35.01   Title
   
35.02   Purpose
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   Creation
   
35.05   Fund sources
   
35.06   Description of district
   
35.07   Board supervision
   
35.08   Powers of the Authority
   
35.09   Termination
Amended Plan
   
35.20   Findings
   
35.21   Public purpose
   
35.22   Best interest of the public
   
35.23   Approval and adoption of plan
   
35.24   Financing
ORIGINAL PLAN
§ 35.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Downtown Development Authority (DDA) and
Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Ordinance” of the village.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to create a public body to act in the best
interests of the village to halt property value deterioration, eliminate the
causes of that deterioration, increase property tax valuation where possible in
the business district of the village, for public improvements, and to promote
economic growth pursuant to Public Act 197 and Act 450, as amended. (See §
35.03 for definition.)
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The terms
used herein shall have the same meaning as given them in Act 197 and Act 450 or
as hereinafter in this section provided, unless the context clearly indicates
to the contrary and shall be in addition to the terms provided in Act 197 and
Act 450.
   ACT 197 AND ACT 450. Acts 197 of 1975, being M.C.L. §§ 125.1651 through
125.1681, and 450 of 1980, being M.C.L. §§ 125.1801 through 125.1830, as
amended.
   AUTHORITY. The Sebewaing Downtown Development Authority (DDA).
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Sebewaing.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The downtown district designated herein.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sebewaing, Huron County.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.04 CREATION.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to Act 197 and Act 450, the Sebewaing
Downtown Development Authority and Tax Increment Financing District. The
Authority shall be a public body and shall be known and exercise its powers
under title of “Sebewaing Downtown Development Authority”. The Authority may
adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of this state, and shall possess
all of the powers necessary to carry out the purpose of its incorporation as
provided herein and in Act 197 and Act 450. The enumeration of a power herein
or in Act 197 and Act 450 shall not be construed as a limitation upon the
general powers of the Authority.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.05 FUND SOURCES.
   Detail the fund sources:
   (A)   Donations. These funds could be from either individuals or
corporations including philanthropic foundations. However, no sources of
donations are known to be available to the DDA at this time.
   (B)   Tax levy. The Authority has determined that the potential tax levy
will not be considered. At no time will the Authority levy taxes on personal or
real property. It is counterproductive to the goal of the development plan.
Levying a tax on the Downtown Development District, as a means of making a
“public investment” greatly reduces the economic stimulation effect as the
individual businesses would experience an immediate cost from the initial
public development. In light of the trend in the tax base of the Downtown
Development District, a real public investment is needed, rather than an
indirect private investment to stimulate private market forces.
   (C)   Bond proceeds. Although these are provided in the statute as a “source
of financing”, they are only a vehicle for borrowing, not an actual source of
capital. Whether revenue bonds or general obligation bonds are used, their sale
requires the availability of another source of funds to repay them as they
mature.
      (1)   A bond sale may be used for the financing of elements within the
development plan. Use of bonding will be determined by the needs of a proposed
development inside the boundaries of the development area.
      (2)   The Downtown Development Authority shall not sell any bonds
pursuant to this plan without approval of the Village Council prior to the
issuance of any such bonds.
   (D)   Revenue from properties. This is not a basic source of financing in
this case. An income from properties acquired during implementation of the
development plan will be applied to costs of that implementation. Excess funds
will be used to assist in the financing of other elements within this plan.
   (E)   Other sources. These might include any general revenues of the village
approved by the Village Council for use by the DDA. It is hoped that the
village will continue to pursue any grants which can be used to finance any
portion of the development plan.
   (F)   Tax increment dollars. 100% of the tax increment dollars that accrue
each year will be used to finance the development plan.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.06 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICT.
   The boundaries of the downtown district in which the Authority will exercise
its powers as provided by Act 197 and Act 450 are hereby established as shown
on the attachments to the ordinance herein adopted.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.07 BOARD SUPERVISION.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the Village President and members. The members shall be appointed
by the Village President and members. The members shall be appointed by the
President subject to approval by the Village Board of Trustees. Eligibility for
membership of the Board and terms of office shall be as provided in Act 197 and
Act 450. All members shall hold office until the member’s successor is
appointed.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.08 POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall develop appropriate plans to aid in the economic growth
of the downtown district and to make public improvements, subject to the
approval of the Village Council. Once the plans are so approved, the Authority
shall implement the plans so as to best achieve the goals set by the Village
Council consistent with the purpose of Act 197 and Act 450.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 35.09 TERMINATION.
   Upon completion of its purposes, the Authority may be dissolved by the
Village Board. The property and assets of the Authority, after dissolution and
satisfaction of its obligation, shall revert to the village.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
AMENDED PLAN
§ 35.20 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The development plan included in the amended plan meets the
requirements set forth in section 17 of Act 197 of 1975, and the tax increment
financing plan meets the requirements set forth in section 14 of Act 197 of
1975. (See §
35.03 for definition.)
   (B)   The proposed method of financing the development and is feasible, and
the Downtown Development Authority has the ability to arrange financing.
   (C)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes
of the Act, as amended.
   (D)   The land included within the development area to be acquired is
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of Act 197 of 1975.
   (E)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan of
the village.
   (F)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities, are
or will be adequate to service the development area.
   (G)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections, and
utilities, to the extent required by the amended plan are reasonably necessary
for the project and for the village.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 35.21 PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   The Village Council hereby determines that the amended plan constitutes a
public purpose.
(Ord. passed 10-7-13)
§ 35.22 BEST INTEREST OF THE PUBLIC.
   The Village Council hereby determines that it is in the best interest of the
public to halt property value deterioration, increase property tax valuation,
to eliminate the causes of the deterioration in property values, aud to promote
growth in the Downtown District to proceed with the amended plan.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 35.23 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   The amended plan is hereby approved and adopted. The duration of the amended
plan shall be 20 years from the date of this subchapter or from the date of
issuance of the last series of bonds pursuant to the plan, whichever is later,
except as it may be extended by subsequent amendment of the plan pursuant to
Act 197 of 1975. A copy of the amended plan aud all amendments thereto shall be
maintained on file in the Village Clerk's office.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
§ 35.24 FINANCING.
   The village Downtown Development Authority plans to finance the improvements
described in the plan primarily through tax increment revenues, public and
private grants, and donations. The plan does not include any DDA district
millage levy, and the Village Council has no plans to implement such a levy.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   WATER SERVICE
         
51.   SEWER FACILITIES
         
52.   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
         
53.   WATER WELLS
         
54.   UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
         
55.   USE OF LIGHT AND WATER EQUIPMENT
         
56.   GARBAGE
         
57.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
Editor's Note:
   The State of Michigan laws regarding discontinuance of utility services
supersedes any municipal ordinance
CHAPTER 50: WATER SERVICE
Section
Water Service
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Turning on water service
   
50.03   Access to meters
   
50.04   Reimbursement for damage
   
50.05   Meter failure
   
50.06   Hydrant use
   
50.07   Additional regulations
   
50.08   Injury to facilities
   
50.09   Access to residential water supply
Water Rates
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Basis of charges
   
50.22   Water rates
   
50.23   Collection
WATER SERVICE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Light and Water Department of the village.
   WATER CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system connecting the
water main with the premises served.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the water distribution system located within
easement lines or streets designed to supply more than one water connection.
(1988 Code, § 2.2300) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.02 TURNING ON WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than an authorized employee of the Department shall turn on
or off any water service, except that a licensed plumber may turn on water
service for testing his or her work (when it must be immediately turned off) or
upon receiving written permit from the Department, provided that upon written
permit from the Department, water may be turned on for construction purposes
only, prior to the granting of a certificate of occupancy for the premises and
upon payment of the charges applicable thereto.
(1988 Code, § 2.2301) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.03 ACCESS TO METERS.
   The Department shall have the right to shut off the supply of water to any
premises where the Department is not able to obtain access to the water meter.
Any qualified employee of the Department shall at all reasonable hours, have
the right to enter the premises where meters are installed for the purpose of
reading, testing, removing or inspecting same, and no person shall hinder,
obstruct or interfere with an employee in the lawful discharge of his or her
duties in relation to the care and maintenance of the water meter.
(1988 Code, § 2.2302) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.04 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DAMAGE.
   Any damage which a meter may sustain resulting from carelessness of the
owner, agent or tenant, or from neglect of either of them to properly secure
and protect the meter, as well as any damage which may be wrought by frost, hot
water or steam backing from a boiler, shall be paid by the owner of the
property to the village on presentation of a bill therefor; and in cases where
the bill is not paid, the water shall be shut off and shall not be turned on
until all charges have been paid to the village.
(1988 Code, § 2.2303) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.05 METER FAILURE.
   If any meter shall fail to register properly, the Department shall estimate
the consumption on the basis of former consumption and bill accordingly.
(1988 Code, § 2.2304) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.06 HYDRANT USE.
   No person, except a firefighter or authorized employee of the Department in
the performance of his or her duties, shall open or use any fire hydrant,
except in case of emergency, without first securing authorization from the
Department.
(1988 Code, § 2.2305) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 50.07 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The Light and Water Committee may make and issue additional rules and
regulations concerning the water distribution system, connections thereto,
meter installations and maintenance, hydrants and water mains and the
appurtenances thereto, not inconsistent herewith. These rules and regulations
shall be effective upon approval by the Council.
(1988 Code, § 2.2306) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
8-6-2012)
§ 50.08 INJURY TO FACILITIES.
   No person, except an employee of the Department in performance of his or her
duties, shall willfully or carelessly damage, destroy, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenances or equipment which is a part of the village water
distribution system.
(1988 Code, § 2.2307) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 50.09 ACCESS TO RESIDENTIAL WATER SUPPLY.
   An authorized representative of the Department shall at all reasonable hours
have the right to enter residential premises provided water service by the
village to collect water samples for the purpose of checking the quality of
water provided.
(1988 Code, § 2.2308) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
WATER RATES
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Village Light and Water Department.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, public or private corporation or
public agency or instrumentality.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land, building or premises having any
connection to the water distribution system of the village.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Department.
(1988 Code, § 2.2500) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.21 BASIS OF CHARGES.
   All water service shall be charged for on the basis of water consumed. No
free water service shall be furnished to any person.
(1988 Code, § 2.2501) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.22 WATER RATES.
   The rates now in effect for water service shall continue until changed by
resolution of the Village Council. Charges for water service shall be payable
on or before the due date, and thereafter a penalty of 1½% per month of the
amount of the charges shall be added to the bill.
(1988 Code, § 2.2502) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 50.23 COLLECTION.
   The Department is hereby authorized to enforce the payment of charges for
water service to any premises by discontinuing the water service to the
premises, and an action of assumpsit may be instituted by the village against
the customer. The charges for water service, which, under the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended, are
made a lien on the premises to which furnished, are hereby recognized to
constitute the lien; and the Superintendent may annually certify all unpaid
charges for the service furnished to any premises which has remained unpaid to
the Village Treasurer, who shall place the same on the next village tax roll.
The charges so assessed shall be collected in the same manner as general
village taxes. In cases where the village is properly notified in accordance
with Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, that a
tenant is responsible for water service charges, no service shall be commenced
or continued to the premises until there has been deposited with the village
$100 for a home and $200 for a business. Where the water service to any
premises is turned off to enforce payment of charges, the service shall not be
recommenced until all delinquent charges have been paid and a deposit as in the
case of tenants is made. In any other case where, in the discretion of the
Superintendent, the collection of charges for water service may be difficult or
uncertain, the Superintendent may require a similar deposit. The deposits may
be applied against any delinquent water service charges and the application
thereof shall not affect the right of the Department to turn off the water
service to any premises for any delinquency thereby satisfied. No deposit shall
bear interest and the deposit, or any remaining balance thereof, after service
has been discontinued will be refunded to the customer when all past utilities
are paid in full.
(1988 Code, § 2.2503) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
11-19-2012; Ord. passed 4-21-2014)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER FACILITIES
Section
Charges
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of system
   
51.03   Connection required
   
51.04   Charges
   
51.05   Surcharge rates
Installation and Connections
   
51.20   Definitions
   
51.21   Use of public sewers required
   
51.22   Public sewage disposal
   
51.23   Building sewers and connections
   
51.24   Contractors to be licensed
   
51.25   Use of the public sewers
   
51.26   Protection from damage
   
51.27   Powers and authority of Inspectors
   
51.28   Conditions of service
   
51.29   Sewer disconnections
 
   
51.99   Penalty
CHARGES
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARGES FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES or CHARGES. The amount charged to each
premises in the village connected to the system for sewage disposal services,
including a debt service factor.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Sebewaing, the legislative
and governing body thereof.
   COUNTY. The County of Huron, State of Michigan.
   PREMISES. The lands included within the boundaries of a single description,
as set forth from time to time on the general tax rolls of the village, as a
single taxable item in the name of a taxpayer or taxpayers at one address, but
in the case of platted lots, shall be limited to a single platted lot, unless
an existing building or structure is so located on more than one lot as to make
the same a single description for purposes of assessment or conveyance, now or
hereafter.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL DISTRICT or DISTRICT. The village sewage disposal district,
as described in the resolution of the County Board of Commissioners, adopted
April 14, 1970, or any amendments thereto.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES. The collection, transportation, treatment and
disposal of sanitary sewage emanating from premises now or hereafter connected,
directly or indirectly, to the sewage disposal system.
   SEWER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. The village sewage disposal system established and to
be constructed by the county under contract with the village dated July 1,
1971, and leased to the village, and all extensions, enlargements and
improvements thereto.
   SURCHARGE RATES. The rates and charges applied to wastewater whose
parameters exceed the limits established in §
51.25(D) of this chapter.
   SYSTEM. The sewage disposal system as now or hereafter established and
constructed by the county and leased to the village to serve the residents of
the village.
   UNIT or UNITS. Related to the quantity of sanitary sewage ordinarily arising
from the occupancy of a residence building by a single family of ordinary size,
and shall from time to time be defined by the village and assigned to premises
in the district.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sebewaing, State of Michigan.
(1988 Code, § 2.2700) (Ord. passed 7-6-1970; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 7-19-1976; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 10-19-1987; Ord. passed 1-
18-1988; Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.02 USE OF SYSTEM.
   The system shall be used for the collection and transportation of sanitary
sewage only. Downspouts, footing drains, weep tile or any conduit that storm
water or ground water alone, or in combination with sanitary sewage, shall not
be connected to the system, directly or indirectly. Industrial and commercial
waste shall be discharged into the system only in compliance with the village
ordinance.
(1988 Code, § 2.2701) (Ord. passed 7-6-1970; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 7-19-1976; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 10-19-1987; Ord. passed 1-
18-1988; Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 51.03 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Premises within the village on which are now or hereafter located any
buildings or structures for which direct connection to the system is available
shall not be used or occupied by persons, firms or corporations for any purpose
after the effective date hereof, unless the premises are connected to the
sewage disposal system, provided that premises within the village so improved
and used or occupied on the effective date hereof shall be connected to the
system within 12 months after completion of the system.
(1988 Code, § 2.2702) (Ord. passed 7-6-1970; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 7-19-1976; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 10-19-1987; Ord. passed 1-
18-1988)
§ 51.04 CHARGES.
   Charges for sewage disposal services to each premises within the village
connected with the sewage disposal system shall be determined by the Council,
shall be fixed by resolution, adopted and amended from time to time by the
Council, which charges shall include a user’s fee in the following amounts:
   (A)   Effective April 1, 2005, the rates for the sewer charges will be based
on a commodity rate based on water usage consumption and a ready to serve
charge;
   (B)   Hickory Court residents, $26 sewer surcharge per month in addition to
the commodity rate based on water usage consumption and a ready to serve
charge; and
   (C)   Sanitary sewer rates are as follows:
Sanitary Sewer Rates
 Rate Billing Codes
Sanitary Sewer Rates
                                                                             Rate    Billing
                                                                                     Codes
Metered customers (require both commodity and RTS charges)
   Commodity charges
                                                                             $3.35
      Commodity village residential                                    per
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $4.00
      Commodity village commercial (including apartments)              per
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $3.50
      Commodity township residential                                   per
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $7.00
      Commodity township commercial (including apartments)             per
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $7.00
      Commodity USA schools                                            per
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $4.00
      Commodity village commercial duplex meter                        per     SC1
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $7.00
      Commodity township commercial duplex meter (including apartments)per     SC2
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
                                                                             $3.35
      Commodity village residential meter change out                   per     SR2
                                                                             1,000
                                                                             gallons
   RTS charges (ready to serve-meter charges)
                                                                             $20.00
      RTS village single family residential, see note 1                per     SW
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $10.00
      RTS village multi-family/apartment, see note 2                   per     SU
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $22.50
      RTS village commercial 5/8 or 3/4-inch meter                     per     SC
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $30.00
      RTS village 1-inch meter                                         per     S1
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $50.00
      RTS village 1½-inch meter                                       per     S2
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $75.00
      RTS village 2-inch meter                                         per     S3
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $0.00
      RTS village 2-inch meter, see note 3                             per     S3B
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $185.00
      RTS village 3-inch meter                                         per     S4
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $360.00
      RTS village 4-inch meter                                         per     S5
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $22.50
      RTS township residential                                         per     SW
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $40.00
      RTS township 1-inch meter                                        per     S1
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $65.00
      RTS township 1½-inch meter                                      per     S2
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $100.00
      RTS township 2-inch meter                                        per     S3
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $260.00
      RTS township 3-inch meter                                        per     S4
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $460.00
      RTS township 4-inch meter                                        per     S5
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
Unmetered customers
                                                                             $33.00
   Monthly flat rate village residential                                  per     US
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $34.00
   Monthly flat rate village commercial                                   per     UC
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $35.00
   Monthly flat rate township residential                                 per     US
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
                                                                             $36.00
   Monthly flat rate township commercial                                  per     UC
                                                                             month /
                                                                             unit
Special rates
   Hickory Court rates: commodity township residential, plus RTS township         SH
residential, plus $26.00/mo surcharge
                                                                             $10.00
   Water shut off, but still connected: off service rate applicable to    per     SO
village, township, residential and commercial                                month /
                                                                             unit
Sewer variable for limited use under special circumstances                           SV
Note 1:   Multi-family homes with individual water meters for each apartment shall be billed
as single family homes with a $20 RTS charge for each metered dwelling.
Note 2:   The $10 RTS charge for multi-family dwellings applies to each apartment that
receive water through a shared water meter with other apartments (RTS code - SU).
Note 3:   Usage only meter; always paired with a lead meter.
 
(1988 Code, § 2.2703) (Ord. passed 7-6-1970; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 7-19-1976; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 10-19-1987; Ord. passed 1-
18-1988; Ord. passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 2009 passed - - ; Ord. passed 11-19-2012;
Ord. passed 11-4-2013; Ord. passed 1-20-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Utility rates and charges; general administration, see §
54.01
§ 51.05 SURCHARGE RATES.
   The rates and charges set forth in this subchapter notwithstanding, if the
character of the sewage of any user imposes an unreasonable or additional
burden upon the sanitary sewer system of the village, an additional charge
shall be made over and above the rates otherwise. Waste water in excess of the
maximum limitations imposed by this subchapter shall be deemed prima facie
subject to surcharge. If necessary to protect the system or any part thereof,
the village shall deny the right of any user to discharge sewage into the sewer
system.
   (A)   Surcharge rates. Surcharge rates for BOD, total suspended solids,
total phosphorous as P and ammonia nitrogen are hereby established as follows:
 
Pollutant              Threshold Limit Without Surcharge per Pound of Pollutant
                       Surcharge               in Excess of Threshold Limit
BOD                    250 mg/l                $0.49
Total suspended solids 200 mg/l                $0.478
Total phosphorous as P 7 mg/l                  $4.86
Ammonia nitrogen       30 mg/l                 $0.78
 
   (B)   Surcharge rate payment. The rates stated herein shall be effective on
September 1, 2010, except as otherwise provided. A billing covering the use of
the system before and after the effective date of a rate change shall require
the proration of the bill based on the average use per day and the number of
days within the billing period at the rate then in effect. Surcharges shall be
collected with the sewer billings. The rates established herein for surcharge
rates may be revised by the Village Council by resolution and shall establish
when the rates shall be billed and paid.
(Ord. passed - -)
INSTALLATION AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the wall of the building and conveys it to the building sewers beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sales of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. Any person or persons duly authorized by the Council to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the
public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory, MAY is permissive.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
village or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1988 Code, § 2.2800) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 51.21 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village, or any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would be
regarded as sewage or industrial wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sanitary
sewage, industrial, waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy wall, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located, or may in the future be located, a public sewer or combined sewer of
the village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the
proper public sewer, in accordance with the provision of this subchapter within
six months (180 days) after the date of official notice to do so, provided that
the public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(1988 Code, § 2.2801) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.21(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all requirements of the State Board of Health.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
   (C)   At those times as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a sewage disposal system as provided in §
51.21(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Board of
Health.
(1988 Code, § 2.2802) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 51.23 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof,
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village Council. Before a
permit may be issued for excavating for plumbing in any public street, way or
alley by anyone other than an individual property owner digging his or her own
sewer connection by hand, the person applying for the permit shall have
executed unto the village and deposited with the Treasurer a corporate surety
in the sum of $1,000 conditioned that he or she will perform faithfully all
work with due care and skill and in accordance with the laws, rules and
regulations established under the authority or any ordinances of the village
pertaining to plumbing. This bond shall state that the person will indemnify
and save harmless the village and the owner of the premises against all damage,
costs, expense, outlays and claims of every nature and kind arising out of
unskillfulness or negligence on his or her part in connection with plumbing or
excavating for plumbing described in this subchapter. The bond shall remain in
force and must be executed for a period of two years, except that on
expiration, it shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims and demands
that may have accrued thereunder prior to the expiration.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential service; and
         (b)   For service to commercial, multi-family residential,
establishments producing industrial wastes, and all other non-residential
properties.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection
of $35 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and $100 for an
industrial sewer permit. The capacity fee for all properties is $1,500. Fees
shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of
the building shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person installing
the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear through an
adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer. Other exceptions shall be allowed only by special permission by
the Superintendent.
   (F)   The sewer connection from the property or easement line to within five
feet of the inside wall of any home or building shall consist of any one of the
following kinds of pipe:
      (1)   Extra strength vitrified clay sewer pipe and fittings conforming to
ASTM Designation C-200;
      (2)   Concrete sewer pipe and fittings conforming to ASTM Designation C-
14;
      (3)   Asbestos cement sewer pipe conforming to ASTM Designation C-428-71,
or the latest revision thereof, Class 2400;
      (4)   Extra heavy cast-iron soil pipe and fittings conforming to the
current ASTM Specifications or the Department of Commerce standards; or
      (5)   PVC pipe conforming to ASTM Designation D-2665, Schedule 26.
   (G)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be gas-tight and watertight.
Joints on vitrified clay pipe and concrete pipe shall be made with recessed
rubber rings conforming to ASTM Designation C-425.
      (2)   Asbestos cement pipe joints shall be of the rubber ring, flexible
compression type complying with the pipe manufacturer’s recommendations. All
joints, including those on PVC pipe, shall conform to the manufacturer’s
specifications for the respective kind of pipe installed.
   (H)   The size of sewers from the property line to the building shall be six
inches in diameter for all commercial buildings. Sewer connections to single-
family residences may be four inches in diameter when cast-iron pipe or PVC
pipe is installed in minimum lengths of five feet. All other kinds of pipe
shall be six inches in diameter. The slope of all sewer connections from the
property line to the outlet at the building shall be not less than one-eighth
inch per foot, unless otherwise permitted by the Inspector.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with the current ASTM
Specifications, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected by the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by those drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch designated for the property if the branch is available
at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated “Y” branch in
the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his or
her representatives.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(1988 Code, § 2.2803) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988; Ord. passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 CONTRACTORS TO BE LICENSED.
   (A)   Any individual, partnership or corporation that contracts with a
property owner to install or assist in installing any sewer connections within
the village shall be licensed by the village.
   (B)   The license fee shall be $25 and renewal fee shall be $25. Each
contractor, prior to being licensed, shall furnish to the village proof of
liability insurance with minimum coverage of $500,000 for bodily injury and
liability and $100,000 for property damage and shall, in addition, furnish
proof of worker's compensation and provide a license bond on a form provided by
the village with a corporate surety which bond shall be in the minimum of
$5,000.
   (C)   Any licensed contractor who undertakes the responsibility for the
installation of sewer connections in the village shall be responsible for
complying with this subchapter and all other ordinances contained within the
village code.
(1988 Code, § 2.2804) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 51.25 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, foundation drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer any harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid, gas, capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Inspector they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. Where installed, they shall be
maintained by the owner at his or her expense in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (D)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
having harmful or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Superintendent, who may prescribe limits on the strength
and character of these waters or wastes. Users may not discharge into the
sanitary sewer system any wastewater containing concentrations of pollutants
greater than the following limits:
Pollutant Limits
Pollutant                 Limits
BOD                       250 mg/l
Mercury                   N.D.¹
Molybdenum                0.11 mg/l
Total kjeldahl nitrogen   30 mg/l
Oil, grease and fats      100 mg/l
Phosphorus                7 mg/l
TSS                       200 mg/l
Polychlorinated biphenyl  N.D.²
(PCB)
In addition, users may not discharge waste water with a pH of 6.0 s.u. or
less or with a pH of 9.5 s.u. or more. If a pollutant is regulated by this
standard and some other standard, then the more stringent standard applies.
¹   Mercury sampling procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical
protocol for compliance monitoring shall be in accordance with U.S. EPA
method 245.1. The detection limit shall not exceed 0.2 ug/l, unless higher
levels are appropriate due to matrix interference.
²   The detection level shall not exceed 0.1 ug/l. Compliance monitoring
shall be in accordance with EPA method 608. Any discharge of these substances
at detectable levels is a specific violation of these regulations.
 
      (2)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide at his or her expense preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to treat these wastes prior to discharge to the public sewer. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and of the State Board of Health and no construction of the
facilities shall be commenced until approval is obtained in writing. Where
preliminary facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install and maintain at
his or her expense a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to
facilitate observation sampling and measurement of the wastes. All
measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes
shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control manhole or upon
suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (F)   In addition to requiring the industrial user to install a manhole to
monitor the strength of its industrial waste pursuant to the terms of this
subchapter, the industrial user may be required by the village at its sole
discretion, to install at the user's expense, an approved meter to register
accurately all water flowing to the system for purposes of implementing the
foregoing rates and the service charges established under the terms of this
subchapter. The sampling for all parameters in the above table shall be on a 24
hour flow proportional, composite basis. All sampling and testing must be based
on the requirements of this subchapter in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136,
applicable general pretreatment standards in 40 C.F.R. part 403, categorical
pretreatment standards, state regulations and applicable village ordinances.
   (G)   Sampling frequency shall be determined by the village on a case by
case basis, but not less than monthly. For each monthly period, two samples
shall be collected flows less than 10,000 gallons per day and four samples
shall be collected for facilities generating 10,000 gallons per day or greater.
Additional sampling frequencies shall be determined by the village to assure
continual compliance with this subchapter and all rules and regulations.
Additional monitoring or change in frequency may be required by the village
with reasonable notification in writing. All sampling and analytical costs are
the responsibility of the sewer user. Samples shall be collected by the village
or by the sewer user with the village's permission. The sewer analytical
testing shall be performed at a state-certified lab with all test results sent
to the village and to the sewer user. Sampling shall be done in a timely manner
so that analytical results are available at the time the billing is performed.
   (H)   The sewer user must notify the village immediately upon becoming aware
of any problems, through sampling or by other means, that violate village's
ordinances and regulations, or of any slugs, upsets, bypasses, spills,
noncompliance or any other situation that could cause problems in the sewer
system. The notification must be followed within five days, with submission of
a detailed written report describing the cause of the accident or bypass, its
duration, the discharge limit violations, measures being taken to prevent
future occurrences and dates for completion of the measures. Discharge limit
violations noted through sampling and testing must be retested and results
submitted within 30 days. Following any corrective action taken as result of
discharge limit violations, sampling and testing will be done and results
submitted to demonstrate compliance within 30 days of completion of the
corrective action.
   (I)   All records and reports pertaining to any activities or discharges
related to this subchapter and general pretreatment requirements, including
report and records of problems, shall be maintained a minimum of three years by
the sewer user or through any litigation periods related to the reports and
records.
   (J)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with techniques
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto. Test results must
contain the time, date and place of sampling, names of laboratories and persons
sampling and analyzing the material. All laboratories providing test results
for any reports, shall have an active quality control and quality assurance
program in operation to provide reliable and accurate test data and be state-
certified. Flow must be measured and recorded for each day that samples are
taken and included in the reports. Each sewer user must maintain records of
average daily flow and maximum daily flow at all discharge points.
(1988 Code, § 2.2805) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently,
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest
under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1988 Code, § 2.2806) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.27 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 2.2807) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 51.28 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The village shall install that portion of the service from the main to
the lot, easement or right-of-way line. The cost of installing the sewer
service from the main to the lot, easement or right-of-way line shall be
charged to the customer on a time and material basis, with a minimum fee of
$300. The customer shall install at his or her expense that portion of the
service from the lot or easement line to his or her premises. Maintenance of
the sewer service from the customer’s facility to the main sewer line shall be
the responsibility of the customer. The size and slope of the building sewers
shall be subject to the approval of the authorized personnel of the village,
but in no event shall the diameter be less than six inches (except as noted in
§
51.23(H)). Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (B)   Applications may be canceled and/or sewer service discontinued by the
village for any violation of any rule, regulation or condition of service, and
especially for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property of fixtures
to be serviced by the sanitary sewer system;
      (2)   Non-payment of bills; and
      (3)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures or failure to keep
same in suitable state of repair.
   (C)   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
village will be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the
application, unless a change of address has been filed in writing at the
business office of the Village Council and the village shall not otherwise be
responsible for delivery of any bills or notice; nor will the customer be
excused from non-payment of a bill or from any performance required in the
notice.
   (D)   (1)   Bills for sewer service are due and payable at the business
office of the Clerk or to any designated agent on the date designated thereon.
The past due date shall be the tenth day after the due date. Bills will be
dated quarterly.
      (2)   All bills not paid on or before the past due date shall be termed
delinquent, and the village shall serve the customer a written final notice of
the delinquency. If a delinquent bill is not paid within 30 days after date
due, the water and/or sewer service to the user will be subject to
discontinuance or other measures, as state law will allow.
   (E)   Where the water or sewer service supplied to a customer has been
discontinued for nonpayment of delinquent, bill, the village reserves the right
to request a nominal sum to be placed on deposit with the village for the
purpose of establishing or maintaining any customer's credit. The reconnection
will not be made until after the delinquent bills and other charges, if any
owed by the customer to the village have been paid.
   (F)   The village shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruption of service, and when the interruption occurs, will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever services are
interrupted for the purpose of working on the collection system or the
treatment equipment, all consumers affected by the interruption will be
notified in advance whenever it is possible to do so.
   (G)   The village shall, in no event, be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the break of any mains or service pipes, or by reason
of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or
stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damage nor
have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
   (H)   The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all reasonable
hours be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the village.
   (I)   Special terms and conditions may be made where sewer service is used
by the village or community for public purposes such as public parks and the
like.
   (J)   These rules may be changed or amended.
(1988 Code, § 2.2809) (Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 51.29 SEWER DISCONNECTIONS.
   Sewer disconnections are the property owner’s responsibility, including
cutting, capping, and notifying the village for inspection prior to
backfilling, after which billings will cease.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.05 shall be enforceable through the bringing of appropriate action for
injunction, mandamus, or otherwise, in any court having jurisdiction. Any
violation of §§
51.01 through
51.05 is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(1988 Code, § 2.2706)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.20 through
51.28, except §
51.26, shall be served by the Village Council with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall within the period of time
stated in the notice permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violations beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.26(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined in the amount not less than $100 and not more than $500 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.20 through
51.28 shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned in the village by reason of the violation.
(1988 Code, § 2.2808)
(Ord. passed 7-6-1970; Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 7-19-1976; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 10-19-1987; Ord. passed 1-
18-1988; Ord. passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 2009- , passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
52.01   Rules adopted
   
52.02   Inspections
   
52.03   Right of access; information
   
52.04   Discontinuing service
   
52.05   Labeling unsafe water
   
52.06   Relationship of chapter to State Plumbing Code
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 RULES ADOPTED.
   The village adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of
the State Department of Public Health, being Michigan Administrative Code
R325.431 to R325.440.
(1988 Code, § 2.3000) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979)
§ 52.02 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Light and Water Department to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross
connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections, based on potential health hazards involved,
shall be as established by the village and as approved by the State Department
of Public Health.
(1988 Code, § 2.3001) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979)
§ 52.03 RIGHT OF ACCESS; INFORMATION.
   The representative of the Light and Water Department shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping
system or systems thereof for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency
any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on the
property. The refusal of the information or refusal of access when requested
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(1988 Code, § 2.3002) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   The Light and Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this chapter exists, and to take other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply system. Water service to the property shall not be restored
until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 2.3003) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979)
§ 52.05 LABELING UNSAFE WATER.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination, as
specified by this chapter and by the State Plumbing Code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
 
WATER UNSAFE
FOR DRINKING
 
(1988 Code, § 2.3004) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979)
§ 52.06 RELATIONSHIP OF CHAPTER TO STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   This chapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Code, but is
supplementary to it.
(1988 Code, § 2.3005) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, or any written order of the village in pursuance thereof, shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each violation.
Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall occur
shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose of this
chapter.
(1988 Code, § 2.3006) (Ord. passed 1-3-1979)
CHAPTER 53: WATER WELLS
Section
   
53.01   Prohibitions
   
53.02   Permission required
§ 53.01 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct
or maintain, or permit to be constructed or maintained, within a radius of 100
feet from any of the municipal wells within the village from which the village
draws its water supplies, any source of possible contamination or pollution to
the wells. Any well drilling in the village must have Council approval.
(1988 Code, § 2.2400)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any
act, or to allow to be done any act, that may contaminate or pollute or
contribute to the contamination or pollution of the water supply wells or water
system of the village.
(1988 Code, § 2.2401)
(Ord. passed 8-7-1950; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drill, dig or in
any manner construct a well in the village without first obtaining the written
permission of Village Council.
(1988 Code, § 2.2403) (Ord. passed 8-7-1950; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see
§
10.99
CHAPTER 54: UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
54.01   General administration
§ 54.01 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Statements shall be rendered monthly.
   (B)   All charges for each utility service shall be payable by the due date
on the billing. Charges not paid by the due date shall be subject to a penalty
charge of 1½% per month that the same remain unpaid following the due date
thereof.
   (C)   The charges for each utility service are hereby made a lien upon the
premises served thereby. Whenever any charge against any premises shall be
delinquent as of March 15, the charges plus penalties accrued thereon may be
entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as special
assessments against the premises.
   (D)   Village utility services may be discontinued for nonpayment. Services
discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then due and owing, including
penalties and interest, shall be paid. In addition, the owner shall be
responsible for all expenses involved with the disconnection and reconnection
of the utilities.
   (E)   No free utilities shall be furnished by the village to any person,
firm or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or
instrumentality. Charges for services provided by the system shall be billed
monthly on the first of each month and shall be due by the fifteenth of each
month.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
CHAPTER 55: USE OF LIGHT AND WATER EQUIPMENT
Section
   
55.01   Wires and poles
   
55.02   Unauthorized use
 
   
55.99   Penalty
§ 55.01 WIRES AND POLES.
   (A)   The Sebewaing Light and Water Department wires, poles and apparatus,
together with any interconnections thereof, are the exclusive property of
Sebewaing Light and Water Department, and the connections of a customer's
premises thereto does not entitle the customer to any use thereof except as
necessary for the delivery of the Sebewaing light and water service to the
customer. The use of any part of the Sebewaing light and water distribution or
transmission system by the customer for carrying foreign electric currents or
carrier current transmission, radio or telephone broadcasting or receiving is
expressly prohibited except as provided in
Chapter 153.
   (B)   A pole license agreement providing joint use of certain Sebewaing
Light and Water Department wood poles with a servicing Telephone/Communications
Company may be entered into. The Village of Sebewaing/Sebewaing Light and Water
Department may also enter into a rental agreement with a CATV (community access
television) Company providing cable television service to customers within the
Sebewaing Light and Water Department service area. The use of any pole by a
Telephone/Communications Company or CATV Company without first having entered
into a written agreement with the Village of Sebewaing/Sebewaing Light and
Water Department is prohibited.
   (C)   The unauthorized attachment (including painting or marking) of any
signs, banners, lines, cables, equipment or any other material to Sebewaing
Light and Water Department poles is prohibited. Authorization for poles use may
be granted by the Sebewaing Light and Water Superintendent or designated
representative based on purposes permitted by Michigan state law and
requirements of governmental authority for the safety and welfare of the
general public. No pole license agreement for commercial use will be authorized
without possession of a valid Sebewaing Light and Water Department issued
franchise.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2015)
§ 55.02 UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   Any Village of Sebewaing employee may remove or cause to be removed without
notice any unauthorized foreign matter from its poles at the expense of the
customer, the person(s) attaching the unauthorized matter or, in the event
neither can be identified, the individual, firm or organization which appears
to be the primary sponsor, user or beneficiary of the unauthorized matter.
Sebewaing Light and Water Department will observe reasonable precaution to
prevent any damage resulting from such removal, but will not be liable for any
damage thereto.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2015)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $500, or sentence in the county jail for a period of not more
than 90 days, or both a fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2015)
CHAPTER 56: GARBAGE
Section
   
56.01   Definitions
   
56.02   Purpose and intent
   
56.03   Garbage and rubbish collection
   
56.04   Receptacles required
   
56.05   Industrial and commercial rubbish and trash
   
56.06   Garbage, rubbish, depositing and burning prohibitions
   
56.07   Owners' and occupants' duty
   
56.08   Rates and charges
   
56.09   Village approved collectors
 
   
56.99   Penalty
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. The putrescible and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any room or combination of rooms in which one or more
people could reside. In any multiple dwelling intended to serve more than one
family, up to five families, each unit thereof shall constitute a RESIDENTIAL
DWELLING , and each unit shall be so assessed. Apartments at all times shall be
considered separate units in any building with up to five apartments. It is the
intent of this chapter to assess all structures used as multiple dwellings on a
unit basis, it being provided that any structure with more than five
residential units shall be considered commercial and be entitled to contract
separately for garbage and rubbish collection. The sanitation officer may
determine the number of units at any given address. Anyone considering himself
or herself aggrieved may, within 20 days following receipt of his or her first
billing, protest his or her ruling to the subcommittee, who shall have
authority to make the final determination.
   RUBBISH. The miscellaneous waste material resulting from housekeeping,
including ashes, cartons, tin cans, metal, small packing boxes and wastepapers,
excluding discarded materials from building construction, and further,
excluding trees, brush and further, excluding automobile bodies or component
parts of any substantial weight or size.
   SANITATION OFFICER. The superintendent of the Sanitation Division or other
duly appointed representatives of the Village Council.
(1988 Code, § 2.2100) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 2-17-2014)
§ 56.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the Village Council that this chapter be liberally
construed for the purpose of providing a sanitary and satisfactory method of
collecting and disposing of municipal wastes. The Sanitation Officer is
authorized to make rules and regulations as from time to time appear to him or
her to be necessary to carry out this intent; provided, however, that the rules
do not conflict with this or other ordinances of the village.
(1988 Code, § 2.2101) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993)
§ 56.03 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTION.
   Garbage and rubbish shall be collected by the village-approved contractors
or village personnel at times and pursuant to rules and regulations established
by the Sanitation Officer. These rules and regulations shall be published in a
newspaper in general circulation in the village at least once before the rules
and regulations become effective and as often as the Sanitation Officer shall
deem necessary.
(1988 Code, § 2.2102) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993)
§ 56.04 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or lessor, or any agent thereof, of every premises
where garbage and rubbish accumulate, shall cause to be provided for the
premises sufficient and proper receptacles as herein prescribed. Receptacles
that are broken, without handles or which otherwise fail to comply with the
requirements of this chapter may be classified as rubbish, and after due notice
to the user may be collected as rubbish.
   (B)   The receptacles for garbage shall be kept on the premises in the rear
thereof within an approved distance of the rear entrance to the dwelling or
premises. Containers shall be placed at the curb on pick-up days, and readily
assessable to the collectors. Where approved liners are used, it will only be
necessary to place the liner and contents at the curb, securely bound at the
top.
   (C)   Garbage receptacles shall be of substantial, approved construction,
free of holes, with proper handles and a tight-fitting cover and shall have a
capacity of not less than ten gallons, nor more than 20 gallons; and no
receptacle shall weigh more than 50 pounds when full. Garbage receptacles shall
be adequate in size and number to hold one weeks' accumulation. All garbage
receptacles shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
   (D)   Rubbish receptacles shall be metal, wooden or plastic-bushel baskets
with handles, in good condition, and shall weigh not to exceed 50 pounds when
full. Rubbish containers other than metal, wooden or plastic baskets with
handles, in good condition, as herein specified, may be collected as rubbish
without notice, except that garbage receptacles may be used as rubbish
containers.
   (E)   Accumulations of rubbish larger than can be contained in a receptacle
shall be securely tied in compact bundles, not to exceed 50 pounds in weight,
and placed in a location designated by the Sanitation Officer.
   (F)   Empty containers shall not be left at the curb more than 24 hours.
   (G)   Ashes will be removed only when placed in rubbish containers as herein
specified and shall not contain live coals.
   (H)   No person shall disturb the contents of any garbage or rubbish
receptacle or bundle, or leave the receptacles or contents in a condition other
than this chapter provides.
(1988 Code, § 2.2103) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.05 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL RUBBISH AND TRASH.
   Every owner, occupant or lessor, or any agent thereof, of any commercial or
industrial building where garbage or rubbish accumulates shall arrange for
garbage and rubbish collection.
(1988 Code, § 2.2104) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 6-16-2014; Ord. passed 7-7-
2014)
§ 56.06 GARBAGE, RUBBISH, DEPOSITING AND BURNING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall bury or burn any garbage, or deposit garbage or
rubbish upon any public way or upon any property owned by another, or in any
body of water within the village; nor shall any person deposit or place any
garbage upon any premises owned or occupied by him or her unless the garbage is
enclosed in a suitable container, as herein required.
   (B)   No hazardous waste, building materials, rubbish, including leaves and
brush shall be burned within the village during any season of the year without
the approval of the Village Council.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any burning within the
village. However, recreational burning is allowed with the following
restrictions:
      (1)   Recreational burning is allowed on private property in an enclosed
fire burner, as long as the fire does not endanger other buildings or
structures, atmospheric conditions are favorable, and only clean wood products
or commercially produced fuel products are burned.
      (2)   Recreational burning is allowed on private property, with the
exception of emission of smoke or fumes that irritate, annoy, or constitute a
nuisance to others living in the neighborhood.
      (3)   Open burning within an outside grill or barbecue for the expressly
limited purpose of food preparation is allowed.
      (4)   Open burning of bonfires for recreational purposes only are
allowed, provided that any such bonfire shall be no more than four feet in
diameter and shall be at least 20 feet from all property lines and structures.
All bonfires shall be under the direct and constant supervision and control of
a person at least 18 years or older.
(1988 Code, § 2.2105) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.07 OWNERS' AND OCCUPANTS' DUTY.
   Every owner, occupant or lessor, or any agent thereof, of any building where
garbage or rubbish accumulates, shall arrange with a trash company for removal.
(1988 Code, § 2.2106) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 56.08 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates for garbage and rubbish collection shall be established by Village
Council resolution and amended at times as deemed necessary by the Council to
defray the cost of collection.
(1988 Code, § 2.2107) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993; Ord. passed 11-19-2012; Ord. passed 2-
17-2014)
Cross-reference:
   Utility rates and charges; general administration, see §
54.01
§ 56.09 VILLAGE APPROVED COLLECTORS.
   In the interest of providing the services as contemplated herein, the
Village Council shall have the right to enter into contracts with one or more
contractors to provide the services required by this chapter; and no person,
firm or corporation shall undertake to dispose of garbage or rubbish for others
without authority of the Village Council and without there being in existence a
contract between the village and the licensee for that purpose.
(1988 Code, § 2.2108) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975; Ord.
passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $100, or sentence in the county jail for a period of not more
than 90 days, or both a fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(1988 Code, §§ 2.2107, 2.2109) (Ord. passed 11-3-1975; Ord. passed 12-15-1975;
Ord. passed 4-4-1977; Ord. passed 9-7-1993)
CHAPTER 57: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
Section
   
57.01   Adoption of the storm water management plan
§ 57.01 ADOPTION OF THE STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   That a certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the Village of Sebewaing, being marked and designated as "Storm Water
Management Plan" be and is hereby adopted as the Storm Water Management Plan
for the Village of Sebewaing, Huron County, Michigan for the establishment of
minimum standards governing storm water drainage system design for development
and redevelopment projects within the Village of Sebewaing; and each and all of
the regulations of the Storm Water Management Plan are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC CODES ADOPTED
         
71.   PARKING
         
72.   SCHOOL BUSES
         
73.   MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, SKATE BOARDS, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKIS AND THE
LIKE
         
74.   SNOWMOBILES
         
75.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
76.   SPEEDS ON SEBEWAING RIVER
         
77.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
         
78.   OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON VILLAGE STREETS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC CODES ADOPTED
Section
Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.01   Code, amendments and revisions adopted
   
70.02   References in Code
   
70.03   Notice to be published
Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.15   Code adopted
   
70.16   Reference to statutory provision
   
70.17   Reference in code
   
70.18   Notice to be published
Drunk Driving
   
70.20   Code adopted
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking, see
Ch. 71
   Snowmobiles, see
Ch. 74
   Traffic regulations, see
Ch. 75
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.01 CODE, AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages as promulgated
by the Director of the State Department of State Police pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L. §§
24.201 to 24.328 and made effective October 30, 2002, and all future amendments
and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and
effective in this state are incorporated by reference.
(1988 Code, § 10.10100) (Ord. passed 10-21-1968; Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord.
passed 9-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 70.02 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages to
a GOVERNMENTAL UNIT shall mean the Village of Sebewaing.
(1988 Code, § 10.10101) (Ord. passed 10-21-1968; Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord.
passed 9-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 70.03 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The Village Clerk shall publish this subchapter in the manner required by
law and shall publish at the same time a notice stating the purpose of the
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages and the fact that a
complete copy of the code is available to the public at the office of the Clerk
for inspection.
(1988 Code, § 10.10102) (Ord. passed 10-21-1968; Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord.
passed 9-5-1979; Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.15 CODE ADOPTED.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L. §§ 257.1 to
257.923 is adopted by reference.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000)
§ 70.16 REFERENCE TO STATUTORY PROVISION.
   A violation of the Michigan Vehicle Code written under this subchapter shall
be cited as VOC followed by the applicable section number of the Michigan
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000)
§ 70.17 REFERENCE IN CODE.
   Reference in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL AUTHORITIES shall mean the
Village of Sebewaing.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000)
§ 70.18 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The village shall publish this subchapter in the manner required by law and
shall publish at the same time a notice stating the purpose of the Michigan
Vehicle Code and further that a complete copy of the code is available to the
public for inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000)
DRUNK DRIVING
§ 70.20 CODE ADOPTED.
   The village hereby adopts Section 625(1)(c) of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L. § 257.625, pursuant to Public Acts 9 and
10 of 2012, Sec. (k).
(Ord. passed 3-19-2012; Ord. passed 1-21-2013)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages are adopted by reference.
   (B)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference; provided, however, that the village may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
   (C)   A person found guilty of violating § 70.20 is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by one or more of the following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
      (3)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000; Ord. passed 12-16-2002; Ord. passed 3-19-2012; Ord.
passed 1-21-2013)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING
Section
Parking Violations Bureau
   
71.01   Established
   
71.02   Scope of review
   
71.03   Schedule of offenses and fines
Night Parking
   
71.15   Curbed streets
   
71.16   Non-curbed streets
   
71.17   Commercial vehicles
Recreational Vehicles
   
71.20   Parking of recreational vehicles
   
71.21   Penalty
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 71.01 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, as added by Public
Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a Parking Violations Bureau
for the purpose of handling alleged violations within the village is hereby
established. The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and
control of the Village Clerk.
(1988 Code, § 10.10200)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall, subject to the approval of the Village
Council, establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau,
appoint qualified village employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules
and regulations for the operation thereof.
(1988 Code, § 10.10201)
(Ord. passed 1-6-1969; Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 71.02 SCOPE OF REVIEW.
   (A)   No violation not scheduled in §
71.03 of this subchapter shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.
The fact that a particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged
violator to disposition at the Bureau; and in any case, the person in charge of
the Bureau may refuse to dispose of the violations, in which case, any person
having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any court
having jurisdiction of the offense, as provided by law.
(1988 Code, § 10.10202)
   (B)   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violation Bureau except at
the specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation
shall be accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and
in no case shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or
attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter to the alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau; and all persons shall be entitled to have any
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof, if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her, or in any way
diminish the rights, privileges and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(1988 Code, § 10.10203)
   (C)   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police
officer of the village shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation.
The ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which
the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking
Violations Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours
during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the
offense for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the
arrest of the person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if the person
fails to respond within the time limit.
(1988 Code, § 10.10204)
(Ord. passed 1-6-1969; Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 71.03 SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES.
Offense Uniform Traffic Code Section Penalty
                                                                            Uniform
Offense                                                                     Traffic Penalty
                                                                            Code
                                                                            Section
Disabled vehicle, failure to move                                           2.5     $30
Abandoned vehicle plus tow and storage charge                               2.5a    $30
Failure to set brakes                                                       5.58    $30
Keys in vehicle or motor running                                            5.58    $30
Parked on grade, wheels not turned to curb                                  5.58    $30
Bicycle parking violations                                                  6.17    $5
Parking too far from curb                                                   8.1,    $30
                                                                            8.2
Angle parking violations                                                    8.3     $30
Obstructing traffic                                                         8.5     $30
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary)                                      8.10
   a. On sidewalk                                                                $30
   b. In front of drive                                                          $30
   c. Within intersection                                                        $30
   d. Within 15 ft. of hydrant                                                   $30
   e. On crosswalk                                                               $30
   f. Within 20 ft. of crosswalk or 15 ft. of corner lot lines                   $30
   g. Within 30 ft. of st. side traffic sign or signal                           $30
   h. Within 50 ft. of railroad crossing                                         $30
   i. Within 20 ft. of fire station entrance                                     $30
   j. Within 75 ft. of fire station entrance on opposite side of street          $30
(signs required)
   k. Beside street excavation, when traffic obstructed                          $30
   l. Double parking                                                             $30
   m. On bridge or viaduct or within tunnel                                      $30
   n. Within 200 ft. of accident where police in attendance                      $30
   o. Blocking emergency exit                                                    $30
   p. Blocking fire escape                                                       $30
Stopping, standing, or parking in prohibited zone including municipal       8.10r   $30
parking lots
Parking in alley                                                            8.13    $30
Parking in handicapped parking zone                                         8.105   $50
Parking for prohibited purpose                                              8.14
   a. Displaying for sale                                                        $30
   b. Working or repairing vehicle                                               $30
   c. Displaying advertising                                                     $30
   d. Selling merchandise                                                        $30
   e. Storage over 48 hours                                                      $30
Standing or parking on wrong side of roadway                                8.1     $30
Loading zone violation                                                      8.16,   $30
                                                                            8.17
All night parking
   a. First and subsequent offense                                               $30
   b. Commercial vehicle offense                                                 $75
 
   (A)   All fines paid within three days of the issuance of a violation notice
shall be half the amount set forth in the above schedule.
   (B)   Fines for parking in a disabled parking zone will remain at $50.
   (C)   All fines not paid within ten days of issuance of a violation notice
shall be twice the amount set forth in the above schedule.
(1988 Code, § 10.10205) (Ord. passed 1-6-1969; Ord. passed 6-6-1977; Ord.
passed 3-18-1985; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed 3-20-2000; Ord. passed 4-
21-2014)
NIGHT PARKING
§ 71.15 CURBED STREETS.
   Parking shall be prohibited on all curbed streets, drives, and courts in the
village from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. each day of the week.
(1988 Code, § 10.10400) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed 1-20-2014)
§ 71.16 NON-CURBED STREETS.
   Night street parking shall be allowed on all non-curbed streets, drives and
courts from April 1 to November 30 and from December 1 to March 31, provided
vehicles are not parked in snow plowing lanes.
(1988 Code, § 10.10401) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 71.17 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, firm, or corporation to park,
or cause to be parked, overnight or left running in excess of two hours, any
commercial vehicle in excess of one-ton capacity on any property within the
village, except on property zoned for commercial use, except by special
approval of the Council. COMMERCIAL VEHICLES shall be defined as, but not
limited to, tow trucks, dump trucks, over-the-road tractors, large delivery
vans, buses or other commercially registered vehicles in excess of one ton.
Tractor trailers shall not be allowed, except on commercial property, and the
Council shall not grant special approval regarding tractor trailers.
(Ord. passed 4-21-2014; Ord. passed 4-20-2015; Ord. passed 6-1-2015)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 71.20 PARKING OF RECREATION VEHICLES.
   No travel trailers, campers, or recreation vehicles (RVs) shall be occupied,
utilized, or inhabited on residential property for a period exceeding five
consecutive nights, or five nights total in any one-month period.
(Ord. 6-16-2014; Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
§ 71.21 PENALTY.
   A person who violates §
71.20 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction.  A person who violates §
71.20 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of $100, plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction. Repeat
offenses under §
71.20 shall be subject to increased fines as provided below.
   (B)   Increased civil fines.  Increased civil fines may be imposed for
repeated violations by a person of any requirement or provision of §
71.20.
      (1)   As used herein, A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent)
municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or provision:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any 18-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (2)   The increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
no less than $200 plus reimbursement to the city, payable at the 73B District
Court, Huron County, Michigan, within 48 hours, for charges assessed for the
expense of the abatement, plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction.
         (b)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $300, payable at the 73B
District Court, Huron County, Michigan, within 48 hours, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2014)
CHAPTER 72: SCHOOL BUSES
Section
   
72.01   Paint; signage
   
72.02   Meeting or overtaking a school bus
   
72.03   Visibility
   
72.04   Approaching bus on a divided roadway
   
72.05   Required bus equipment
   
72.06   Prima facie evidence of ownership
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PAINT; SIGNAGE.
   A school bus transporting pupils in the village shall be painted and shall
contain signs on the back and front of the school bus as approved by the State
Department of Transportation and the State Superintendent of Public
Instruction.
(1988 Code, § 10.10300) (Ord. passed 3-18-1985)
§ 72.02 MEETING OR OVERTAKING A SCHOOL BUS.
   The driver of a vehicle overtaking or meeting a school bus which has stopped
and is displaying two alternately flashing red lights located at the same level
shall bring the vehicle to a full stop not less than ten feet from the school
bus and shall not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the visual
signals are no longer actuated. The driver of the school bus, before resuming
motion, shall deactivate flashing lights and permit stopped traffic to proceed,
and shall when resuming motion proceed in a manner which will allow congested
traffic to disperse by keeping the bus as near to the right side of the road as
can be done safely. Passengers crossing the road upon being discharged from a
school bus shall cross in front of the stopped school bus. At an intersection
where traffic is controlled by an officer or a traffic stop and go signal, a
vehicle need not be brought to a full stop before passing a stopped school bus
but may proceed past the school bus at a speed not greater than is reasonable
and proper, but not greater than ten mph and with due caution for the safety of
passengers being received or discharged from the school bus. Signs giving
notice of this regulation shall be posted at the entrance of the village as may
be most appropriate or sufficiently legible as to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person.
(1988 Code, § 10.10301) (Ord. passed 3-18-1985) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 VISIBILITY.
   A school bus driver shall not stop the bus for the purpose of receiving or
discharging passengers unless the bus is completely visible in its stopped
position to approaching or overtaking drivers of vehicles for a distance of at
least 400 feet.
(1988 Code, § 10.10302) (Ord. passed 3-18-1985)
§ 72.04 APPROACHING BUS ON A DIVIDED ROADWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway which has been divided into two
roadways by leaving an intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or clearly
indicated dividing sections so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, need
not stop upon meeting a school bus which has stopped across the dividing space,
barrier or section.
(1988 Code, § 10.10303) (Ord. passed 3-18-1985)
§ 72.05 REQUIRED BUS EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A school bus transporting pupils in the village, in addition to any
other equipment and distinctive marking required by law, shall be equipped with
signal lamps mounted as high and widely spaced laterally as practicable, which
shall be capable of displaying to the front two alternately flashing red lights
located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red lights
located at the same level. The lights shall have sufficient intensity to be
visible from a distance of not less than 400 feet in normal sunlight and shall
be actuated by the driver of the school bus when, but only when, the vehicle is
stopped and for a distance of at least 200 feet in advance of a stop for the
purpose of receiving or discharging school children.
(1988 Code, § 10.10304)
   (B)   A school bus shall be equipped with a mirror convex in shape at least
seven and one-half inches in diameter, firmly mounted at hood or fender top
height in front of the bus. The mirror shall be located on either the left or
right side of the bus in a manner so that the seated driver may observe through
its use the road from the front bumper forward to the point where direct
observation is possible.
(1988 Code, § 10.10305)
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985)
§ 72.06 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP.
   In a proceeding for a violation of §
72.02, proof that the particular vehicle described in the citation, complaint
or warrant was in violation of §
72.02, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation, complaint
or warrant was at the time of the violation the registered owner of the vehicle
shall constitute in evidence a presumption that the registered owner of the
vehicle was the driver of the vehicle at the time of the violation.
(1988 Code, § 10.10306) (Ord. passed 3-18-1985)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who fails to stop for a school bus as required
by §
72.02 or who passes a school bus in violation of §
72.02 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A) above, a person who
violates this chapter is responsible for a civil infraction.
(1988 Code, § 10.10307) (Ord. passed 3-18-1985)
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES, MOPEDS, SKATE BOARDS, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKIS AND
THE LIKE
Section
   
73.01   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted;
violation as civil infraction
   
73.02   Operation of skate boards, roller blades, roller skates and roller skis
   
73.03   Warning
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED;
VIOLATION AS CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who is riding in, or by means of, any coasters, toy vehicle or
similar device shall not go on any roadway, except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk. When crossing a street on a crosswalk, the person shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF SKATE BOARDS, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES AND ROLLER
SKIS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use skate boards,
roller blades, roller skates or roller skis or similar devices in an unsafe or
careless manner in the village, including any private parking lots open to the
public.
   (B)   Operators of skate boards, roller skates, roller blades, roller skis
or similar devices shall yield the right of way to other pedestrians on any
public sidewalks and shall not otherwise endanger or interfere with pedestrian
traffic on sidewalks.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2000; Ord. passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 WARNING.
   (A)   For a first offense, a written warning may be issued to the offender
and no fine imposed.
   (B)   If the offender is under the age of 17 years, a parent or guardian of
the offender may be notified and may be handed or mailed a copy of the written
warning.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2000; Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter again after a written
warning shall be responsible for a civil infraction.
(Ord. passed 8-21-2000; Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
CHAPTER 74: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
74.01   Code adopted
   
74.02   Reference to statutory provisions
   
74.03   Notice to be published
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 CODE ADOPTED.
   Part 821, Snowmobiles, being Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L. §§
324.82101 to 324.82160 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Act is adopted by reference.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 REFERENCE TO STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   A violation of Part 821 written under this chapter shall be cited as SMLL
followed by the applicable Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated number of the Part
821.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
§ 74.03 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The village shall publish this chapter in the manner required by law and
shall publish at the same time a notice stating the purpose of the snowmobile
regulations and further that a complete copy of the hereby adopted statutory
provision regulating snowmobiles is available to the public for inspection at
the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties provided by the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Act for a violation of Part 821 of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L. §§
324.82101 to 324.82160 are adopted by reference, provided, however, that the
village may not enforce any provision of the Act for which the maximum period
of imprisonment is greater than 93 days.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2003)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation Under the Influence
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Under the influence
   
75.03   Operation under the influence
 
   
75.99   Penalty
OPERATION UNDER THE INFLUENCE
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway; excepting devices exclusively moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and excepting a
mobile home as defined in Public Act 419 of 1976, § 2, being M.C.L. § 125.2302.
(1988 Code, § 9.9707) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 75.02 UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   A person, whether licensed or not, who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating
liquor and a controlled substance, shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway
or other place open to the general public including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles within the village. A peace officer may without a warrant
arrest a person when the peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that the
person was at the time of an accident the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident and was operating the vehicle upon a public highway or other place
open to the general public, including an area designated for the parking of
vehicles in the village while in violation of this section or of division (B)
below.
   (B)   A person, whether licensed or not, whose blood contains 0.08% or more
by weight of alcohol shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place
open to the general public, including an area designated for the parking of
vehicles within the village.
   (C)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public, including an area
designated for the parking of motor vehicles within the village by a person who
is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a
combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance.
(1988 Code, § 9.9708) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 OPERATION UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   A person shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to
the general public including an area designated for the parking of vehicles
within the village when, due to the consumption of an intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance or a combination of an intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance, the person has visibly impaired his or her ability to
operate the vehicle. If a person is charged with violating § 75.02(A) or (B), a
finding of guilty is permissible under this section.
(1988 Code, § 9.9709(1)) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord.
passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a person who is
convicted of a violation of §
75.02(A), (B) or (C) above is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or a fine of not less than $100, nor
more than $500, or both, together with costs of prosecution. As part of the
sentence for a violation of §
75.02(A) or (B), the court shall take action on the person's driver's license
as provided for in M.C.L. § 257.625(4).
(1988 Code, § 9.9708)
   (B)   A person convicted of a violation of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or a fine of
not more than $300, or both, together with costs of the prosecution. As part of
the sentence for a violation of this section, the court shall take action on
the person's driver's license, as provided for in M.C.L. § 257.625(b)(2).
(1988 Code, § 9.9709(2))
(Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
CHAPTER 76: SPEEDS ON SEBEWAING RIVER
Section
   
76.01   Slow, no-wake speed
§ 76.01 SLOW, NO-WAKE SPEED.
   On the water of the Sebewaing River and connecting natural and artificial
channels and canals, Section 7 and 8, Town 15 North, Range 9 East, Sebewaing
Village, Huron County, from the M-25 (Beck Street) bridge downstream to the
mouth, an operator of a vessel shall not exceed a slow, no-wake speed, which
means a very slow speed whereby the wake or wash created by the vessel would be
minimal.
(1988 Code, § 9.9500) (Ord. passed 10-4-1971; Ord. passed 4-3-1978)
CHAPTER 77: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Permissible operation
   
77.03   Prohibited operation
   
77.04   Conditions of operation
   
77.05   Age of operation
   
77.06   Valid license required
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE.  An operator’s or chauffeur’s license or permit issued to
an individual by the Secretary of State under Chapter III of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L. §§ 257.301 to 257.329, for
that individual to operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are attached to
the license or permit.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and be in actual physical control of the
operation of an ORV.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of an ORV.
   ORV. A motor-driven, off-road recreation vehicle capable of cross-country
travel without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. ORV or VEHICLE includes, but
is not limited to, a multi-track or multi-wheel vehicle, an ATV, a motorcycle
or related 2-wheel, 3-wheel, or 4-wheel vehicle, an amphibious machine, a
ground-effect, air-cushion vehicle or other means of transportation deriving
motor power from a source other than muscle or wind. ORV or VEHICLE does not
include a registered snowmobile, a farm vehicle being used for farming, a
vehicle used for military, fire, emergency, or law enforcement purposes, a
vehicle owned and operated by a utility company or an oil or gas company, when
performing maintenance on its facilities or on property over which it has an
easement, a construction or logging vehicle used in performance of its common
function, or a registered aircraft.
   ROAD. A village primary road or village local road as described in § 5 of
Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L. § 247.655.
   SAFETY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1994,
as amended, being M.C.L. § 324.81129, or a comparable ORV safety certificate
issued under the authority of another state or a province of Canada.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sebewaing, Huron County, Michigan.
   VISUAL SUPERVISION. The direct observation of the operator with the unaided
or normally corrected eye, where the observer is able to come to the immediate
aid of the operator.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015)
§ 77.02 PERMISSIBLE OPERATION.
   An ORV may be operated on the far right of the maintained portion of a
public road within the village; however, an ORV may not be operated on any
state highway such as M-25.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015)
§ 77.03 PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   An ORV may not be operated on the road surface, roadway, shoulder, or right-
of-way of any state highway in the village.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   Except as set forth herein or otherwise provided by law, an ORV meeting all
of the following conditions may be operated on a road in the village:
   (A)   At a speed of no more than 25 miles per hour or a lower posted ORV
speed limit.
   (B)   By a person not less than 14 years of age who has a safety permit and
is in the presence of a licensed adult.
   (C)   With the flow of traffic on the far right of the maintained portion of
the road.
   (D)   In a manner that does not interfere with traffic on the road.
   (E)   Traveling single file, except when overtaking and passing another ORV.
   (F)   While displaying a lighted headlight and lighted taillight at all
hours.
   (G)   While the operator and each passenger is wearing a crash helmet and
protective eyewear approved by the United States Department of Transportation,
unless the vehicle is equipped with a roof that meets or exceeds standards for
a crash helmet, and the operator and each passenger is wearing a properly
adjusted and fastened seat belt, with the exception of a golf cart. On a golf
cart, any person under the age of 16 must wear a properly adjusted and fastened
seat belt.
   (H)   Unless equipped with a braking system that may be operated by hand or
foot, capable of producing deceleration at 14 feet per second on a level ground
at a speed of 20 miles per hour; a brake light, brighter than the taillight,
visible when the brake is activated to the rear of the vehicle, when the
vehicle is operated during the hours of two hours after sunset and two hours
before sunrise; and a throttle so designed that when the pressure used to
advance the throttle is removed, the engine speed will immediately and
automatically return to idle.
   (I)   While the ORV is equipped with a spark-arrester-type, United States
Forest Service-approved muffler in good working order and in constant
operation.
   (J)   Pursuant to noise emission standards defined by law.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 AGE OF OPERATION.
   A person less than 18 years of age shall not operate an ORV on a road in the
village, unless the person is in possession of a valid driver’s license or is
under the direct visual supervision of a parent or guardian, and the person has
in his or her immediate possession an ORV safety certificate issued by the
State of Michigan, or under the authority of another state or a province of
Canada.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.06 VALID LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Unless a person possesses a valid driver’s license, a person shall not
operate an ORV on a road or street in the village if the ORV is registered as a
motor vehicle, and is either more than 60 inches wide or has three wheels.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty. Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a municipal
civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $500.
   (B)   Enhanced penalty. A court shall order a person who causes damage to
the environment, a road, or other property as a result of the operation of an
ORV to pay full restitution for that damage above and beyond the penalties paid
for civil fines.
(Ord. passed 3-2-2015)
CHAPTER 78: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON VILLAGE STREETS
Section
   
78.01   Definitions
   
78.02   Code adopted
 
   
78.99   Penalty
§ 78.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed for transportation while playing the game of
golf. A golf cart is not required to meet the vehicle safety requirements of a
low-speed vehicle for approval under this section.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 78.02 CODE ADOPTED.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L. § 257.657a,
as amended, is adopted by reference with the following exception:
   M.C.L. § 257.657a(16) shall read:
      A golf cart shall only be operated on a state trunk line highway or the
streets of a city, village, or township during the time period from one half
hour after sunrise to one half hour before sunset provided the golf cart has
working headlamps and tail lamps. (Reference M.C.L. § 257.657a(21)(a)(b)).
(Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
§ 78.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   BLIGHT
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   FLAGS
         
95.   NOISE CONTROL
         
96.   NUISANCES
         
97.   PARKS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
         
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
99.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
         
100.   TREES
         
101.   WEED CONTROL
         
102.   INGESTION OR CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICAL AGENT
         
103.   SALE, POSSESSION, OR USE OF FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Consumption in public
   
90.03   Liquor sales
   
90.04   Bars; rules of conduct
   
90.05   Sales to person under the age of 21 years
   
90.06   Purchases by persons under the age of 21 years
   
90.07   Possession by a person under the age of 21 years
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The meaning of ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR and LICENSE when used in this chapter shall
be defined in Public Act 8 of 1933 (Extra Session), being M.C.L. §§ 436.1101 et
seq., as amended.
(1988 Code, § 9.9700) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 90.02 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC.
   No alcoholic liquor shall be consumed on the public highways. No alcoholic
liquor, except beer and/or wine shall be consumed in public parks and places of
amusement not licensed to sell for consumption on the premises.
(1988 Code, § 9.9701) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 LIQUOR SALES.
   No licensee, by himself, herself or another, shall sell, furnish, give or
deliver any alcoholic liquor to any person:
   (A)   Who is so intoxicated as not to be in reasonable control of all his or
her faculties; or
   (B)   On any day during the hours not permitted by state law or the Liquor
Control Commission of the state.
(1988 Code, § 9.9702) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 BARS; RULES OF CONDUCT.
   No licensee shall permit on licensed premises:
   (A)   Spirits to be consumed, if licensed to sell only beer or wine, or
both;
   (B)   Any disorderly conduct or action which disturbs the peace and good
order of the neighborhood;
   (C)   Any resorting of thieves, prostitutes or other disorderly persons;
   (D)   Any gambling or the placing or using of any gambling apparatus or
paraphernalia therein; or
   (E)   Any lewd, obscene or immoral exhibition or entertainment or other
conduct likely to corrupt the public morals.
(1988 Code, § 9.9703) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 SALES TO PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS.
   No person, either directly or indirectly by himself, herself, clerk/agent,
servant or employee shall at any time sell, furnish, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquor to any person unless the person shall have attained the age of
21 years; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the
sale of alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of 21 years upon authority
of and pursuant to a prescription of a duly licensed physician.
(1988 Code, § 9.9703) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 PURCHASES BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall at any time purchase, offer or
attempt to purchase, obtain, consume or bring into any premises within the
village for which a license has been issued to sell intoxicating liquor on the
premises any alcoholic liquor as defined by this chapter. Nor shall any person,
in order to procure the sale and furnishing of alcoholic liquor to any person
under the age of 21 years make any false representations as to the age of the
person for whom the alcoholic liquor is desired. Nor shall any person under the
age of 21 years furnish any false information regarding his or her age, or make
any false representations as to his or her age to any law enforcement officer
or to any person in charge of or employed in a place of business where
alcoholic liquor is sold for the purpose of obtaining a sale of any alcoholic
liquor to himself or herself; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall prohibit the purchase of alcoholic liquor by a person under the age of 21
years under authority of and pursuant to a prescription of a duly licensed
physician.
(1988 Code, § 9.9704) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 POSSESSION BY A PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly possess, transport or
have under his or her control any alcoholic liquor anywhere in the village
including in, on or about a motor vehicle, unless the person is employed by a
licensee of the State Liquor Control Commission and is possessing, transporting
or having the alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle under his or her control
during regular working hours and in the course of his or her employment. This
section shall not apply to alcoholic liquor possessed by a person under the age
of 21 years under authority of and pursuant to a prescription of a duly
licensed physician.
(1988 Code, § 9.9705) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 2-2-1981; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Animals
   
91.01   Cruelty to animals
   
91.02   Poisoning animals
   
91.03   Birds and bird's nests
   
91.04   Keeping of livestock or fowl
   
91.05   Keeping of dogs and cats
Dogs
   
91.20   Presumption of ownership
   
91.21   Restrictions
   
91.22   Exposure to rabies; notice
   
91.23   Duty to clean up
ANIMALS
§ 91.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
    No person shall cruelly treat or abuse any animal or bird.
(1988 Code, § 9.9100) (Ord. passed 12-6-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.02 POISONING ANIMALS.
    No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any exposed
public or private place where it endangers, or is likely to endanger, any
animal or bird.
(1988 Code, § 9.9101) (Ord. passed 12-6-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.03 BIRDS AND BIRD'S NESTS.
   No person, except a police officer acting in his or her official capacity,
shall molest, injure, kill or capture any wild bird or molest or disturb any
wild bird's nest or the contents thereof.
(1988 Code, § 9.9102) (Ord. passed 12-6-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.04 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK OR FOWL.
   No person shall keep or possess within the village limits livestock or fowl,
including, but not limited to, horses, mules, cows, swine, goats or poultry
without first obtaining permission of the Village Council.
(1988 Code, § 9.9103) (Ord. passed 12-6-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.05 KEEPING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall keep at any one location more than two dogs or two cats
without first obtaining permission of the Village Council. A female dog with
pups less than ten weeks old shall be considered as one dog.
(1988 Code, § 9.9104) (Ord. passed 12-6-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
DOGS
§ 91.20 PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP.
   Any person who shall permit any dog to remain about any premises owned or
occupied by him or her for a period of five days shall be deemed the owner of
that dog for the purposes of this subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 9.9200) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 91.21 RESTRICTIONS.
   No person owning, possessing or having charge of any dog six months of age
or over shall permit the dog:
   (A)   To be unlicensed;
   (B)   To be without a collar and a tag approved by the Director of
Agriculture attached, as hereinafter provided except when engaged in lawful
hunting accompanied by its owner or custodian;
   (C)   To be unconfined at any time unless vaccinated against rabies within
the past year and unless the dog shall have a tag on its collar showing the
current vaccination; provided, this division shall apply only to dogs six
months of age or older;
   (D)   If a female dog goes beyond the premises of the owner when the dog is
in heat, unless the female dog is held properly in leash;
   (E)   To be an annoyance or nuisance in the vicinity where kept because of
loud or frequent or habitual barking, yelping or howling or by reason of
damaging or trespassing on the property of others;
   (F)   If vicious, to be unconfined at any time unless securely muzzled and
led by a leash and any dog shall be deemed vicious which has bitten a person or
domestic animal without molestation, or which, by its actions gives indication
that it is liable to bite any person or domestic animal; and
   (G)   To be at large or to leave the owners' or caretakers' premises within
the village, unless the dog is restrained by a substantial chain or leash not
exceeding six feet in length and is in the charge, care, custody or control of
a person with the ability to restrain the dog.
(1988 Code, § 9.9201) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
10-16-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 EXPOSURE TO RABIES; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or harboring a dog which has been
attacked or bitten by another dog or other animal showing the symptoms of
rabies immediately to notify the Police Department of his or her possession of
the dog.
(1988 Code, § 9.9202) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 91.23 DUTY TO CLEAN UP.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning, possessing or having charge of
any dog in the village to carry a container for feces disposal when
accompanying the animal within the village on property open to the public and/
or on property owned or occupied by someone other than the person accompanying
the animal and to clean up any feces deposited by the animal and dispose of the
feces in a responsible manner so as not to interfere with the health, safety
and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. passed 7-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: BLIGHT
Section
Blight
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibition
   
92.03   Causes of blight
   
92.04   Abandoned vehicles
   
92.05   Removal by village
Open Storage of Firewood
   
92.20   Regulations regarding storage
 
   
92.99   Penalty
BLIGHT
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE. Any dwelling, garage, outbuilding accessory building,
factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse, sign or any other structure
or part of a structure which:
      (1)   Because of fire, wind, other natural disaster or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable as a dwelling or useful for the purpose
for which it was originally intended;
      (2)   Is partially completed and which is not presently being constructed
under an existing, valid building permit issued by or under the authority of
the County Building and Zoning Department;
      (3)   Is not structurally sound, weathertight, waterproof or vermin
proof;
      (4)   Is not covered by a water-resistant paint or other waterproof
covering so as to protect the structure from the adverse effects of the
elements or from physical deterioration; or
      (5)   Any structure which could be defined as an unsafe structure.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Any lumber, bricks, concrete, cinder blocks, plumbing
materials and fixtures, electrical wiring or equipment, heating/cooling ducts
or equipment, shingles, mortar, cement, plaster, gypsum board, nails, screws or
other materials commonly used in the construction or repair of any buildings or
structures.
   GARBAGE. Animal and/or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any explosive, acidic or caustic substance, flammable
liquid, oil, chemical or any other substance, or residues of same, which could
be defined as toxic or dangerous by state or federal law; or which could pose a
danger or potential danger to persons, animals, vegetation or the environment
if spilled or stored in violation of state or federal statute or manufacturer's
instructions; or where, in the opinion of the enforcement official, is
otherwise stored improperly or there are inadequate containment facilities or
structures.
   JUNK. Any abandoned, discarded, unusable or unused objects, equipment,
garbage or hazardous materials including, but not limited to, furniture,
household appliances, barrels, tanks, implements, parts of motor vehicles,
tires, machinery, cloth, rubber, bottles, cans, plastic, any metals, boxes,
cartons, crates and papers.
   JUNKED VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle or recreational vehicle not licensed or
registered for its intended use on the pubic highway, waterway or other area
generally open to the public. It also includes motor vehicles or recreational
vehicles in a state of disrepair or dismantled, so as to render that vehicle
legally inoperable on the public roadway, waterway or other place generally
open to the public.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
including but not limited to, residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, leaves, yard trimmings, cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, dust and other similar materials.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005; Ord. passed 6-18-2007)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall maintain or permit to be maintained a blighted structure
upon any property in the village owned, leased, rented or occupied by that
person.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CAUSES OF BLIGHT.
   No person shall maintain or permit to be maintained any of the following
causes of blight or blighting factors upon any property in the village owned,
leased, rented or occupied by that person:
   (A)   The storage upon any property of junk, junked vehicles, junked motor-
driven vehicles, trailers in disrepair, contractor's equipment in disrepair or
recreational vehicles, including boat hulls in disrepair, shall be prohibited
except in a completely enclosed building. For the purpose of this chapter the
term JUNKED VEHICLE, JUNK MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES, TRAILERS IN DISREPAIR,
CONTRACTOR'S EQUIPMENT IN DISREPAIR AND/OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IN DISREPAIR
shall include any self-propelled land motor vehicle which can be used for
towing or transporting people or materials, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, buses, motor homes, motorized campers, motorcycles,
tractors, snowmobiles, trailers, equipment or recreational vehicles and other
off the road vehicles which are inoperative or partially dismantled for any
reason;
   (B)   The storage upon any residential property of building materials unless
there is in force a valid building permit issued by the County Building and
Zoning Office for construction upon the property and the building materials are
intended for use in connection with an on-going construction project;
   (C)   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish, garbage,
hazardous materials or refuse of any kind, except domestic refuse stored in a
manner as not to create a nuisance;
   (D)   The existence of any structure or damaged partial structure which
because of fire, wind or any other natural disaster or physical deterioration
is no longer habitable as a dwelling nor useful for any other purpose for which
it was originally intended;
   (E)   The existence of any vacant building, structure, garage or other
building unless the buildings or structures are kept securely locked, protected
against the elements and are inaccessible so as to prevent entrance thereto by
vandals, rodents or other animals; and
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005; Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. passed 10-16-2006) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicles in the right-of-way of streets,
alleys or highways within the village.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 REMOVAL BY VILLAGE.
   If any junk, junked vehicles, junked motor-driven vehicles, trailers in
disrepair, contractor’s equipment in disrepair or recreational vehicle,
including boat hulls in disrepair stored in violation of this chapter shall not
be removed within 14 days after mailing of notice by certified mail or by
personal service to the owner or owners thereof, or to the owner or owners or
occupant of the real property upon which it is located or to any responsible
agent of a corporate owner or occupant, it may be removed therefrom by the
village and held until claimed by the owner and payment of the costs of removal
plus any fine is made. Property not so claimed within 30 days of removal may be
sold by the village under the procedure for sales on execution in circuit
court, as provided by the law of the state at a time as the sale shall be
conducted. The notice may be served personally on any of the above-named
persons.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005; Ord. passed 4-21-2014)
OPEN STORAGE OF FIREWOOD
§ 92.20 REGULATIONS REGARDING STORAGE.
   No person shall store in the open outside of a building wood for use as
firewood as an energy source to heat their home or business, unless in
conformance with the following regulations.
   (A)   Wood shall not be stored in piles, but shall be stacked in neat rows
not exceeding a height of five feet.
   (B)   Wood shall be cut in lengths not exceeding three feet.
   (C)   Vegetation growing in the area where the wood is stored shall be kept
trimmed and shall be kept free of rodents.
   (D)   The wood may be stored anywhere on a residential lot; provided,
however, that no firewood storage shall be allowed in the front yard of any
residence from April 1 through October 31 of any year.
   (E)   Temporary storage of wood not in conformance with the above provisions
shall be allowed for a period not exceeding 30 days. Upon written request, the
30-day period may be extended by the Village Council for special or unusual
circumstances.
(1988 Code, § 6.6400) (Ord. passed 11-4-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §§
92.01 and
92.02 will be as follows:
      (1)   First offense. Civil infraction, fine not less than $200; and
      (2)   Second offense. Misdemeanor, fine not less than $500.
   (C)   Violations of §§
92.03 through
92.05 will be as follows:
      (1)   First offense. Civil infraction, fine not less than $100.
      (2)   Second offense. Misdemeanor, fine not less than $200.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Appointment of Fire Warden
   
93.02   Fire inspection
   
93.03   False alarm
   
93.04   Injury to fire equipment
   
93.05   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
93.06   Fire hydrant openings
   
93.07   Waste receptacles and storage
   
93.08   Fire exits
§ 93.01 APPOINTMENT OF FIRE WARDEN.
   A Village Fire Warden shall be appointed by the President of the village and
confirmed by the Village Council. He or she shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(1988 Code, § 9.9600) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed
5-19-2025)
§ 93.02 FIRE INSPECTION.
   The Fire Warden is hereby empowered to enter at any and all reasonable times
upon and into any premises, building or structure for the purpose of examining
and inspecting the same, to ascertain the conditions thereof with regard to
fire hazards and the condition, size, arrangement and efficiency of any and all
appliances for firefighting. If the inspection shall disclose any fire hazard
or any deficiency in firefighting appliances, the Fire Warden shall order the
condition remedied. Every order made by the Fire Warden shall be promptly
obeyed and complied with.
(1988 Code, § 9.9601) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 93.03 FALSE ALARM.
   No person shall willfully turn in, sound or cause to be communicated a false
alarm of fire.
(1988 Code, § 9.9602) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.04 INJURY TO FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully molest, take for his or her own private use or
damage in any manner any firefighting equipment or apparatus or anything
pertaining to the firefighting system, or drive any vehicle upon or against any
hose or equipment of any Fire Department.
(1988 Code, § 9.9603) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall place any obstruction whatever, nor shall any person
responsible for the obstruction permit it to remain within 15 feet of any fire
hydrant.
(1988 Code, § 9.9604) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.06 FIRE HYDRANT OPENINGS.
   No person, except authorized village officers and employees, shall use any
fire hydrant, except in case of emergency without first securing permission
from the Village Light and Water Department for the use and paying or agreeing
to pay, for the water to be used. In no case shall any wrench or tool be used
on any fire hydrant other than a regulation village hydrant wrench.
(1988 Code, § 9.9605) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.07 WASTE RECEPTACLES AND STORAGE.
   No person owning or being responsible for any premises shall permit any
waste paper, ashes, oil, rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of a
similar nature to accumulate thereon unless contained in fire-proof
receptacles.
(1988 Code, § 9.9606) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.08 FIRE EXITS.
   The following rules relative to passageways, stairs and fire exits shall be
applicable to all public buildings, places of assembly, commercial and business
buildings, hotels, apartment buildings, lodging houses, tourist homes and all
other buildings, except private dwellings, and except as otherwise expressly
limited herein to a particular type of building.
   (A)   No fire escape, stairway, balcony or ladder on any building shall be
obstructed, out of repair or maintained in a hazardous condition. Doors and
windows leading to any fire escapes shall open easily from the inside.
   (B)   No combustible material shall be stored, placed or kept under or upon
any passageway, stairs or elevator shaft; nor shall any material be stored,
placed or kept in any other part of any building in a position as to obstruct
or render hazardous egress therefrom.
   (C)   All doors, hallways and stairways shall be unobstructed at all times.
   (D)   In all theaters, churches, schools and other places of public
assembly, no door, aisle or passageway shall be obstructed with any furniture
or article; nor shall any person sit or stand, or be permitted to sit or stand,
in any aisle or in any exit or passageway and all exits and the sidewalks
leading therefrom shall be unobstructed while the places of public assembly are
in use.
   (E)   No person shall do any act which causes any violation of any of the
rules set forth in this section, nor shall any person owning any building, or
in charge thereof as agent, employee or otherwise, permit any of the rules to
be violated.
(1988 Code, § 9.9607) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
CHAPTER 94: FLAGS
Section
   
94.01   Foreign flags
   
94.02   Unites States flag in public places
   
94.03   Flags of others
§ 94.01 FOREIGN FLAGS.
   No person shall within the village fly the flag of any nation which at the
time is engaged in an armed conflict with the United States.
(1988 Code, § 9.9400) (Ord. passed 12-8-1970; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 94.02 UNITES STATES FLAG IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person within the village shall raise or lower the flag of the United
States from a public place without due authority or permission.
(1988 Code, § 9.9401) (Ord. passed 12-8-1970; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 94.03 FLAGS OF OTHERS.
   No person within the village shall remove, disturb, molest, damage or
destroy any flag which is being properly displayed without the express consent
of the owner of the flag.
(1988 Code, § 9.9402) (Ord. passed 12-8-1970; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Anti-noise regulations
   
95.03   Anti-noise regulations based on dB(A) criteria
   
95.04   Public nuisance definition
   
95.05   Unlawful noise prohibited
 
   
95.99   Penalties for violation
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   dB(A). The sound pressure level in decibels measured on the "A" scale of a
standard sound level meter having characteristics defined by the American
National Standards Institute, Publication ANSI sl. 4-1971.
   DECIBEL. A unit used to express the magnitude of sound pressure and sound
intensity. The difference in decibels between two sound pressures is 20 times
the common logarithm of their ratio. In sound pressure measurements, the sound
pressure level of a given sound is defined to be 20 times the common logarithm
of the ratio of that sound pressure to a reference pressure of 2 X 10-5 N-m2
(Newton's per meter squared). As an example of the effect of this formula, a
three-decibel change in the sound pressure level corresponds to a doubling or
halving of the sound intensity and a ten-decibel change corresponds to a ten-
fold increase or decrease to one-tenth the former intensity.
(1988 Code, § 6.6500) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 95.02 ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General regulation. No person, firm or corporation shall cause or
create any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud noise or disturbance injurious to
the health, peace or quiet of the residents and property owners of the village.
   (B)   Specific violations. The following noises and disturbances are hereby
declared to be a violation of this chapter; provided, however, that the
specification of the same is not hereby to be construed to exclude other
violations of this chapter not specifically enumerated:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television or other
electronic or mechanical sound-producing device, including any musical
instrument in a manner or with volume as to unreasonably upset or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of other persons;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, hooting or singing on the public streets between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school or church;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which emanates frequent or
extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in the vicinity, such as allowing or permitting any dog to bark
repeatedly in an area where barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property;
      (5)   The sounding of any horn or other device on any motor vehicle,
unless necessary to operate the vehicle safely or as required by the State
Motor Vehicle Code;
      (6)   The discharging outside of any enclosed building of the exhaust of
any steam engine, internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat
engine, except through a muffler or other similar device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises;
      (7)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building or premises in any part of the village and including the streets and
highways in a manner as to emanate noise or disturbance unreasonably annoying
to other persons other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and sundown on any
day except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety. In this case, a permit shall be obtained from the Building Inspector or
Ordinance Enforcement Officer of the village which permit shall limit the
periods that the activity may continue;
      (8)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale, display or
other commercial purpose which by the creation of the noise shall be
unreasonably disturbing to other persons in the vicinity; and
      (9)   The operation of any loudspeaker or other sound-amplifying device
upon any vehicle on the streets of the village with the purpose of advertising,
where the vehicle, speaker or sound-amplifying equipment emits loud and raucous
noises easily heard from nearby adjoining residential property.
   (C)   Exceptions. None of the prohibitions hereinbefore enumerated shall
apply to the following:
      (1)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle
while engaged in necessary emergency activities;
      (2)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways or other
property by or on behalf of the state, village or the county between sundown
and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety and convenience render it
impossible to perform the work during other hours; and
      (3)   Warning devices emitting sound for warning purposes as authorized
by law.
(1988 Code, § 6.6501) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS BASED ON dB(A) CRITERIA.
   In order to regulate and prove violations occurring under §
95.02 of this chapter, any noise in excess of the maximum decibel limits
according to the regulations stated below is deemed to be in violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Regulations for decibel measurement or noise origination from private
properties.
      (1)   Noise radiating from all properties or buildings, as measured at
the boundaries of the property, which is in excess of the dB(A) established for
the districts and times herewith listed shall constitute prima facie evidence
that the noise unreasonably disturbs the comfort, quiet and repose of persons
in the area and is therefore in violation of this chapter. Violations shall
exist when the source or sources of noise are identifiable and the levels
emanating from the source or sources exceed the limitations set forth in Table
A below:
 
Table A
                             Sound Pressure Level Limit - dB(A)
                             Day                  Night
District                     7:00 a.m.—10:00 p.m10:00 p.m.—7:00 a.m.
Commercial (C)               60                   55
Industrial (M-1, M-2)        80                   75
Residential (RA-1, RA-2, MR) 55                   50
 
      (2)   As an example, the noise shall include that emitting from the
production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repairing and
manufacturing of materials, goods or products, including vehicles.
      (3)   Harmonic or pure tunes and periodic or repetitive impulse sound
shall be in violation when the sounds are at a sound pressure level of five dB
(A) less than those listed above.
      (4)   Where property is partly in two zoning districts or adjoins the
boundary of a zoning district, the dB(A) levels of the zoning district of the
property from where the noise is emanating shall control.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following exceptions shall apply to the regulations
under division (A) above.
      (1)   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels specified for industrial districts, as long as a valid building
permit has been issued by the village and is currently in effect.
      (2)   All railroad operations shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels allowed in industrial districts, regardless of the zone where they
are located.
      (3)   Noises occurring between 7:00 a.m. and sundown caused by home or
building repairs or from maintenance of grounds are excluded; provided, the
noise does not exceed the limitations specified in division (A) above by more
than 20 dB(A).
      (4)   Noises emanating from the discharge of firearms are excluded,
providing the discharge of the firearms was authorized under state law and all
local ordinances.
      (5)   Any commercial, agricultural or industrial use of property which
exists now or in the future as a legal nonconforming use (as defined in the
village zoning ordinance, codified in
Chapter 153) in a higher zoning classification shall be allowed to emit noise
in excess of these limitations for the particular zoning classification where
the use is located, providing that the noise does not exceed either of the
following limitations:
         (a)   The noise level emitted by the use at the time it became a legal
nonconforming use as a result of the enactment of an amendment of the village
zoning ordinance, if available; or
         (b)   The limitations contained herein, based upon a use being located
in the highest zoning district (either commercial and agricultural or
industrial) where the use is specifically allowed as a permissible use.
   (C)   Regulations for decibel measurement of motor-driven vehicles on public
roads. All noise emitted from motor-driven vehicles upon public roads shall be
measured whenever possible at a distance of at least 50 feet or 15 meters from
a noise source located within the public right-of-way. If measurement at 50
feet (15 meters) is not feasible, measurement may be made at 25 feet (seven and
one- half meters); and if this is done, six dB(A) shall be added to the limits
provided below. All noises in excess of the dB(A) as provided herein shall be
prima facie evidence that the noise unreasonably disturbs the comfort, quiet
and repose of persons in the area, and is, therefore, in violation of this
chapter.
 
Table B
Vehicle                      Weight                  dB(A) Maximum Limitation
Trucks and buses             Over 10,000 lbs. gross  82 dB(A)
                             weight
Trucks and buses             Under 10,000 lbs. gross 74 dB(A)
                             weight
Passenger cars               Any weight              74 dB(A)
Motorcycles, snowmobiles and Any weight              82 dB(A)
minibikes
All other self-propelled     Any weight              74 dB(A)
motor vehicles
 
   (D)   Measurements of noise. All measurements of dB(A) according to division
(A) and (B) above shall be made by using a sound level meter of standard design
and operated on the "A" weight scale with "slow" meter response.
(1988 Code, § 6.6502) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINITION.
   Whatever annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of the public or offends public decency is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 95.05 UNLAWFUL NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made
or continued any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise, or any noise
which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others within the village. The following acts,
among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, injurious, and unnecessary
and unlawful noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely;
   (A)   Lawn mowing. The starting, running, or using of any gas powered
lawnmower between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   Tire screeching. Intentionally or by immediate operation of a motor
vehicle to cause the tires to screech.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
§ 95.99 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. A person who violates this article is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction subject to payment of a civil fine
of $100, plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction. Repeat offenses
under this article shall be subject to increased fines as provided below.
   (B)   Increased civil fines. Increased civil fines may be imposed for
repeated violations by a person of any requirement or provision of this
section. As used in this section, "repeat offense" means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any 18 month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (C)   The increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
no less than $200 plus reimbursement to the village, payable at the 73B
District Court, Huron County, Michigan within 48 hours, for charges assessed
for the expense of the abatement, plus costs and other sanctions for each
infraction.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $300, payable at the 73B
District Court, Huron County, Michigan within 48 hours plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
(Ord. passed 8-3-2015)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
   
96.01   Nuisance defined and prohibited
   
96.02   Nuisance per se
§ 96.01 NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROHIBITED.
   Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose
of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs or renders
dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake or stream; or in any way renders
the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provision of this chapter. No person shall commit, create or
maintain any nuisance.
(1988 Code, § 6.6100) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.02 NUISANCE PER SE.
   The following acts, services, apparatus and structures are hereby declared
to be public nuisances:
   (A)   The maintenance of any pond, pool of water or vessel holding stagnant
water;
   (B)   The throwing, placing, depositing or leaving in any street, highway,
lane, alley, public place, square or sidewalk, or in any private place or
premises where the throwing, placing, depositing or leaving is, in the opinion
of the Village Clerk, dangerous or detrimental to public health, or likely to
cause sickness, or attract flies, insects, rodents and/or vermin by any person
or any animal or vegetable substances, dead animal, fish, shell, tin cans,
bottles, glass or other rubbish, dirt, excrement, filth, unclean or nauseous
water or fluids, hay, straw, soot, garbage, swill, animal bones, hides or
horns, rotten soap, grease or tallow, offal or any other offensive article or
substances whatever;
   (C)   The pollution of any stream, lake or body of water by depositing or
permitting to be deposited any refuse, foul or nauseous liquid or water,
creamery or industrial waste, or forcing or discharging into any public or
private sewer or drain any stream, vapor or gas;
   (D)   Any vehicle used for any immoral or illegal purpose;
   (E)   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines and
newspapers;
   (F)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (G)   All gambling devices;
   (H)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdyhouses;
   (I)   The distribution of samples of medicines or drugs, unless the samples
are placed in the hands of an adult person;
   (J)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount contrary to the provisions of this code
or statute of the state;
   (K)   Any use of the public streets and/or sidewalks which causes large
crowds to gather, obstructing the free use of the streets and/or sidewalks;
   (L)   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged by
fire, decay or otherwise and all excavations remaining unfilled or uncovered
for a period of 90 days or longer and which are so situated as to endanger the
safety of the public;
   (M)   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public place,
or so situated, left or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (N)   The owning, driving or moving upon any public streets and alleys of
trucks or other motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to permit
any part of their load or contents to blow, fall, or be deposited upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public or private place, or which deposits
from its wheels, tires or other parts onto the street, alley, sidewalk or other
public or private place, dirt, grease, sticky substances or foreign matter of
any kind; provided, however, that under circumstances determined by the Village
Clerk to be in the public interest, the Clerk may grant persons temporary
exemption from the provisions of this division, conditioned upon cleaning and
correcting the violating condition at least once daily and execution of an
agreement by the person to reimburse the village for any extraordinary
maintenance expenses incurred by the village in connection with the violation;
   (O)   The placing or causing to be placed in or on any motor vehicle parked
upon any street, alley or other public place within the corporate limits of the
village any paper, posters, signs, cards or other advertising matter;
   (P)   Inside corn burners shall be permissible upon approval of the outside
corn storage bin by the Village Council and with the condition that the
emissions from the burner shall not be offensive to the neighbors; and
   (Q)   Allowing cut grass, cut weeds and/or leaves to accumulate on a street
or sidewalk in the village when cutting, blowing or raking grass, weeds or
leaves, except on village streets during the period of the duly noticed fall
leaf pickup by the village.
(1988 Code, § 6.6101) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed - -2006; Ord. passed
6-16-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
Section
   
97.01   Injury to park property
   
97.02   Waste containers
   
97.03   Ball games
   
97.04   Additional rules
§ 97.01 INJURY TO PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall obstruct any walk or drive in any public park or playground
and no person shall injure, mar or damage in any manner any monument, ornament,
fence, bridge, seat, tree, fountain, shrub, flower, playground equipment,
fireplace or other public property within or pertaining to parks.
(1988 Code, § 3.3100) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.02 WASTE CONTAINERS.
   No person shall place or deposit any garbage, glass, tin cans, paper or
miscellaneous waste in any park or playground except in containers provided for
that purpose.
(1988 Code, § 3.3101) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.03 BALL GAMES.
   No person shall engage in baseball, football or softball throwing or other
violent or rough exercises or play in any public park or other public place,
except in areas designated therefor by order of the Village Council.
(1988 Code, § 3.3102) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.04 ADDITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   The Village Council may by resolution prescribe additional rules and
regulations pertaining to the conduct and use of parks and public grounds as it
shall deem necessary to administer the same and to protect public property and
the safety, health, morals and welfare of the public; and no person shall fail
to comply with the rules and regulations.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to possess or use skate
boards, roller blades, bicycles or similar recreational devices in any village
park where a sign posted in the park prohibits the activity.
(1988 Code, § 3.3103) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Res. passed 2-21-2005) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 98: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets Openings and Obstructions
   
98.001   Definitions
   
98.002   Damage and obstruction prohibited
   
98.003   Permits and bonds
   
98.004   Street openings
   
98.005   Emergency openings
   
98.006   Backfilling
   
98.007   Utility poles
   
98.008   Maintenance and installations
Curb Cuts
   
98.020   Curb cuts
Sidewalk Obstructions
   
98.035   Sidewalk obstructions
   
98.036   Pedestrian passage
Safety Requirements
   
98.050   Safeguards
   
98.051   Shoring excavations
Housemoving
   
98.065   Housemoving
   
98.066   Removal of encroachment
   
98.067   Temporary street closings
   
98.068   Written notice
Sidewalks
   
98.080   Definitions
   
98.081   Sidewalk construction and repair
   
98.082   Village policy
   
98.083   Sidewalks to be cleared
   
98.084   Failure to clear
STREETS OPENINGS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 98.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET. All of the land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, alleys and boulevards in the village, and includes lawn extensions and
sidewalks and the area reserved therefor where the same are not yet
constructed.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works of the village.
(1988 Code, § 4.4100) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 98.002 DAMAGE AND OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make any excavation in or cause any damage to any street in
the village, except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in this
chapter. No person shall place any article, thing or obstruction in any street,
except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in this chapter, but
this provision shall be deemed to prohibit temporary obstructions as may be
incidental to the expeditious movement of articles and things to and from
abutting premises, nor to the lawful parking of vehicles within the part of the
street reserved for vehicular traffic.
(1988 Code, § 4.4101) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.003 PERMITS AND BONDS.
   (A)   Where permits are authorized in this chapter, they shall be obtained
upon application to the Superintendent, upon forms as he or she shall
prescribe, and there shall be a charge of $1 for each permit. The permit shall
be revocable by the Superintendent for failure to comply with this chapter,
rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, and the lawful orders of the
Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized representative, and shall be
valid only for the period of time endorsed thereon. Application for a permit
under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed an agreement by the
applicant to promptly complete the work permitted, observe all pertinent laws
and regulations of the village in connection therewith, repair all damage done
to the street surface and installations on, over or within the street including
trees and protect and save harmless the village from all damages or actions at
law that may arise or may be brought on account of injury to persons or
property resulting from the work done under the permit, or in connection
therewith.
   (B)   Where liability insurance policies are required to be filed in making
application for a permit, they shall be in not less than the following amounts,
except as otherwise specified in this chapter:
 
On account of injury to or death of any person in any one accident     $500,000
On account of any one accident resulting in injury to or death of more $500,000
than one person
On account of damage to property in any one accident                   $100,000
 
   (C)   A duplicate executed copy or photostatic copy of the original of the
insurance policy shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Where cash deposits are required with the application for any permit
hereunder, the deposit shall be in the amount of $25, except as otherwise
specified in this chapter; and the deposit shall be used to defray all expenses
to the village arising out of the granting of the permit and work done under
the permit or in connection therewith. Three months after completion of the
work done under the permit, any balance of the cash deposit unexpended shall be
refunded. In any case, where the deposit does not cover all costs and expenses
of the village, the deficit shall be paid by the applicant.
(1988 Code, § 4.4102) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 98.004 STREET OPENINGS.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening in or under any street
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent. No permit
shall be granted until the applicant shall post a cash deposit and file a
liability insurance policy as required by §
98.003.
(1988 Code, § 4.4103) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.005 EMERGENCY OPENINGS.
   The Superintendent may, if the public safety requires immediate action,
grant permission to make a necessary street opening in an emergency; provided
that a permit shall be obtained on the following business day and the
provisions of this chapter shall be complied with.
(1988 Code, § 4.4104) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.006 BACKFILLING.
   All trenches in a public street or other public place, except by special
permission, shall be backfilled with approved granular material to within 12
inches of the surface. On main thoroughfares, this material shall contain one
sack of cement per yard of fill. The remaining portion shall be filled with
road gravel as specified by the Superintendent.
(1988 Code, § 4.4105) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.007 UTILITY POLES.
   Utility poles may be placed in streets as the Superintendent shall prescribe
and shall be located thereon in accordance with the directions of the
Superintendent. The poles shall be removed or relocated as the Superintendent
shall from time to time direct.
(1988 Code, § 4.4106) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.008 MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATIONS.
   Every owner of and every person in control of any estate hereafter
maintaining a sidewalk vault, coal hole, manhole or any other excavation, or
any post, pole, sign, awning, wire, pipe conduit or other structure in, under,
over or upon any street which is adjacent to or part of his or her estate,
shall do so only on condition that the maintenance shall be considered as an
agreement on his or her part with the village to keep the same and the covers
thereof, and any gas and electric boxes and tubes thereon in good repair and
condition at all times during his or her ownership or control thereof, and to
indemnify and save harmless the village against all damages or actions at law
that may arise or be brought by reason of the excavation or structure being
under, over, in or upon the street, or being unfastened, out of repair or
defective during the ownership or control.
(1988 Code, § 4.4107) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
CURB CUTS
§ 98.020 CURB CUTS.
   (A)   No opening in or through any curb of any street shall be made without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Curb cuts and sidewalk driveway crossings to provide access to private
property shall comply with the following.
      (1)   No single curb cut shall exceed 22 feet nor be less than 16 feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance between any curb cut and a public crosswalk
shall be five feet.
      (3)   The minimum distance between curb cuts, except those serving
residential property, shall be 25 feet.
      (4)   The maximum number of lineal feet of sidewalk driveway crossings
permitted for any lot, parcel of land, business or enterprise, shall be 45% of
the total abutting street frontage, up to and including 200 lineal feet of
street frontage, plus 20% of the lineal feet of street frontage in excess of
200 feet.
      (5)   The necessary adjustments to utility poles, light standards, fire
hydrants, catch basins, street or railway signs, signals or other public
improvement or installations shall be accomplished without cost to the village.
      (6)   All construction shall be in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Superintendent.
(1988 Code, § 4.4108) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 98.035 SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any street with any materials or machinery
incidental to the construction, demolition or repair of any building adjacent
to the street or for any other purpose without first obtaining a permit from
the Superintendent.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted until the applicant shall post a cash
deposit and file a liability insurance policy as required by §
98.003 of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 4.4109) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.036 PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE.
   (A)   At least six feet of sidewalk space shall be kept clean and clear for
the free passage of pedestrians.
   (B)   If the building operations are so that free passageway is
impracticable, a temporary plank sidewalk with substantial railings or sidewalk
shelter shall be provided around the obstruction.
(1988 Code, § 4.4110) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 98.050 SAFEGUARDS.
   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be properly and
substantially barricaded and railed off, and at night shall be provided with
warning lights. Warning lights perpendicular to the flow of traffic shall not
be more than three feet apart and parallel to the flow of traffic, not over 15
feet apart.
(1988 Code, § 4.4111) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.051 SHORING EXCAVATIONS.
   All openings and excavations shall be properly and substantially sheeted and
braced as a safeguard to workers and to prevent cave-in and washout which would
tend to injure the thoroughfare or subsurface structure of the street.
(1988 Code, § 4.4112) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
HOUSEMOVING
§ 98.065 HOUSEMOVING.
   No person shall move, transport or convey any building or other similar
bulky or heavy object, including machinery, trucks and trailers larger in width
than 14 feet into, across or along any street, alley or other public place in
the village without first obtaining a permit to be used in the movement; and no
person shall engage in the movement along a route other than that specified in
the permit. No housemoving permit shall be granted until the applicant shall
post a cash deposit in the amount of $200 and file a liability insurance
policy, as required by §
98.003 of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 4.4113) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.066 REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT.
   Encroachments and obstructions in the street may be removed and excavations
refilled, and the expense of the removal or refilling charged to the abutting
landowner when made or permitted by him or her or suffered to remain by him or
her, otherwise than in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. The procedure for collection of the expenses shall be as prescribed by
the village.
(1988 Code, § 4.4114) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 98.067 TEMPORARY STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have authority to temporarily close any
street, or portion thereof, when he or she shall deem the street to be unsafe,
or temporarily unsuitable for use for any reason.
   (B)   He or she shall cause suitable barriers and signs to be erected on the
street indicating that the same is closed to public travel; and no person shall
drive any vehicle upon or over the street, except as the same may be necessary
incidentally to any street repair or construction work being done in the area
closed to public travel.
   (C)   No person shall move or interfere with any sign or barrier erected
pursuant to this section without authority from the Superintendent.
(1988 Code, § 4.4115) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.068 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Every person, firm or corporation moving any buildings or other structure or
machinery, except farm machinery or implements of husbandry, over eight feet
six inches in width and/or 12 feet in height from the surface of the roadway
along any street or highway or across any public place within the village shall
file written notice of the intention with the Village Clerk and shall deposit a
sum sufficient to cover the cost of inspection and damage that may result
therefrom.
(1988 Code, § 4.4116) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 98.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street right-of-way designed for pedestrian
travel.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works of the village.
(1988 Code, § 4.4200) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-21-1975; Ord. passed
4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 98.081 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR.
   The construction, rebuilding or repairing of sidewalks in the village shall
only be done by the village unless otherwise directed by the Superintendent.
(1988 Code, § 4.4201) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-21-1975; Ord. passed
4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 98.082 VILLAGE POLICY.
   Unless otherwise determined by the Village Council, it is hereby declared to
be the policy of the village to bear a portion of the cost of sidewalk
construction and repair as follows.
   (A)   Where new sidewalks are constructed at the request of a property
owner, the village shall pay one-third the cost and the property owner shall
pay two-thirds. When new sidewalks are constructed at the request of the
village, the village shall pay the cost thereof.
   (B)   For repair and maintenance of existing sidewalks, the village shall
pay the entire cost thereof; it being provided that if it shall be determined
that the damage or disrepair of the sidewalks has been caused by the property
owner or someone using the sidewalks with the permission of the property owner,
the entire cost of the repairs and maintenance shall be charged to the premises
adjacent to the sidewalks and the owner thereof and such cost shall be
collected as provided for by the village.
(1988 Code, § 4.4202) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-21-1975; Ord. passed
4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 98.083 SIDEWALKS TO BE CLEARED.
   The occupant of every lot or premises adjoining any street or the owner of
the lot or premises, if the same are not occupied, shall clear all snow and
make a reasonable effort to remove all ice from sidewalks adjoining the lot or
premises within the time herein required. When any snow shall fall or drift
upon any sidewalk during the night time, the snow shall be cleared from the
sidewalks by 12:00 p.m. Snow falling or accumulating during the day shall be
cleared from the sidewalks by 12:00 p.m. of the day following.
(1988 Code, § 4.4203) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-21-1975; Ord. passed
4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.084 FAILURE TO CLEAR.
   If any occupant or owner shall neglect or fail to clear ice or snow from the
sidewalk adjoining his or her premises within the time limit or shall otherwise
permit ice or snow to accumulate on the sidewalk, he or she shall cause the
same to be cleared, and the expense of removal shall be collectable as provided
by the village.
(1988 Code, § 4.4204) (Ord. passed 3-6-1961; Ord. passed 4-21-1975; Ord. passed
4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 99: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Conflict
   
99.03   Definitions
   
99.04   Permit required
   
99.05   Issuance of permit
   
99.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
99.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
99.08   Route maps
   
99.09   Repair of damage
   
99.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
99.11   Modification of existing fees
   
99.12   Savings clause
   
99.13   Use of funds
   
99.14   Annual report
   
99.15   Cable television operators
   
99.16   Existing rights
   
99.17   Compliance
   
99.18   Reservation of police powers
   
99.19   Authorized village officials
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L. § 484.3101) (Act) and other
applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for distributions
under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with the
Act.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in a manner as to conflict with
the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L. § 484.3101), as amended from
time to time.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Sebewaing.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Sebewaing Village Council or its designee. This
definition does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the Village Council.
      VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The Village President or his or her designee.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation, the following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Chapter 652, 41 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part 1 of
the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. 20.3 or service
provided by any wireless two-way communication device. For the purpose of the
Act and this chapter only, a provider also includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband Internet transport access service.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
Village Clerk. Upon receipt, the Village Clerk shall make copies of the
application and distribute a copy to the Superintendent of Sebewaing Light and
Water Department. Applications shall be complete and include all information
required by the Act, including without limitation a route map showing the
location of the provider's existing and proposed facilities in accordance with
§ 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L. §§
15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village President may request an applicant
to submit additional information which the Village President deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for the additional information established
by the Village President. If the village and the applicant cannot agree on the
requirement of additional information requested by the village, the village or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorization or permits previously issued by the village under § 251 of the
State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L. § 484.2251
and authorizations or permits issued by the village to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the State Telecommunications
Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the village as of
the date that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251
of the State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L. §
484.2251 shall submit to the village an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division is
not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D) above.
A provider under this division shall be given up to an additional 180 days to
submit the permit application if allowed by the authority, as provided in § 5
(4) of the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village President. Pursuant to § 15(3)
of the Act, the Village President shall approve or deny an application for a
permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an
application for a permit under §
99.04(B) of this chapter for access to a public right-of-way within the
village. Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the Village President shall notify the
MPSC when the Village President has granted or denied a permit, including
information regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date
on which permit was granted or denied. The Village President shall not
unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application or permit is approved, the Village
President shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the Village President may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit which conditions shall be limited
to the telecommunications provider's access and use of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the Village President may require that a bond
be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public right-of-way in the village without first obtaining
a construction or engineering permit as required under this chapter, as
amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be
charged for a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles. There shall be no pole
contact without agreement with the village.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall within 90
days after the substantial completion of construction of new telecommunication
facilities in the village, submit route maps showing the location of the
telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the village. The route
maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and until the Commission
determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to
the street surface and all installations under, over, below or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in §
99.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the village's public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the village
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the
Act, the village also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the village's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act. The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers
in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the village's policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the village shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
99.11 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the village from the
authority shall be used by the village solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the
village from the authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under Public Act 51 of 1951,
being M.C.L. §§ 247.651 et seq.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the Village President shall file an annual
report with the authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the authority.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband Internet transport access services.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the village may have under a permit issued by
the village or under a contract between the village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.17 COMPLIANCE.
   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in a manner as to achieve that purpose. The village
shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including, but
not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L. § 15.231 and the State Telecommunications
Act, as provided in §
99.04(C) of this chapter;
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
99.04(F) of this chapter;
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing the providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
99.04(G) of this chapter;
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the village, in accordance
with §
99.05(A) of this chapter;
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the village has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
99.05(A) of this chapter;
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
99.05(A) of this chapter;
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC with or without
additional or different permit forms as provided in §
99.05(B) of this chapter;
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
99.05(C) of this chapter;
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with §
99.05(D) of this chapter;
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
99.06 of this chapter;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the village
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
99.11 of this chapter;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the authority, in accordance with §
99.14 of this chapter; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
99.15 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the village's
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider's access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the village's authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.19 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village President or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) for violations under this
chapter as provided by the village code.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to payment of a fine of not less than $50, reimbursement to
the village for charges assessed for the expense of enforcing this chapter,
plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction. Repeat offenses under this
chapter shall be subject to increased fines as provided below.
   (B)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of this chapter. As used in this
section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any 18-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (C)   The increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as follows.
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
no less than $250 plus reimbursement to the village of the charges assessed for
the expense of enforcing this chapter, plus costs and other sanctions for each
infraction.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $500 plus reimbursement to the
village for the charges assessed for the expense of enforcing this chapter,
plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the village in the event of a violation by a person of this
chapter or a permit.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2002)
CHAPTER 100: TREES
Section
   
100.01   Village Street Superintendent; powers and duties
   
100.02   Definition
   
100.03   Damaging prohibited
   
100.04   Fires prohibited
   
100.05   Attaching items to trees or shrubs prohibited
   
100.06   Excavations near trees
   
100.07   Overhanging trees, shrubs or plants
   
100.08   Corner lots
   
100.09   Rules for future plantings in highways, parks and public places
   
100.10   Rules for plantings in parkways
   
100.11   Plantings and intersections
   
100.12   Prohibited plantings in public highways, parks and other public places
   
100.13   Public nuisance; removal
   
100.14   Rules for removal of living trees from the public highway, parks or
other public places
   
100.15   Interference with agents or employees of Department of the Village
Street Superintendent
§ 100.01 VILLAGE STREET SUPERINTENDENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Village Street Superintendent shall have power and control over all
trees, shrubs and plants planted, or to be planted, in the public highways,
parks or other public places of the village, and the power to plant, prune,
spray and otherwise maintain those trees, plants and shrubs. The Village Street
Superintendent shall have the power to determine the type or kind of trees to
be planted on any particular street to conform to the landscaping plan for the
street; and when the determination has been made, all trees thereafter planted
shall be in conformity thereto.
(1988 Code, § 3.3200) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 100.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAYS. Includes all of the land lying between property lines on
either side of all public streets, boulevards and alleys.
(1988 Code, § 3.3201) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 100.03 DAMAGING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall cut down, deface, destroy or damage or
injure any tree, shrub or plant upon the public highways or parks or other
public places of the village without first obtaining permission from the
Village Street Superintendent.
(1988 Code, § 3.3202) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.04 FIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall kindle a fire, or cause or permit a
fire to be kindled, or start a so-called "grass fire" on any of the streets,
alleys or public places of the village or on property within ten feet of a tree
located on the streets or public places without first obtaining permission from
the Village Street Superintendent and without taking proper precautions to
prevent damage to trees and shrubs.
(1988 Code, § 3.3203) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.05 ATTACHING ITEMS TO TREES OR SHRUBS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall attach any wire, rope, chain or cable
to any tree or shrub for the purpose of anchorage without a written permit from
the Village Street Superintendent; nor shall any person, firm or corporation
tie livestock or other animals to any tree, shrub or plant growing upon any
public highway, park or other public building in the village.
(1988 Code, § 3.3204) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.06 EXCAVATIONS NEAR TREES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall excavate any ditches, tunnels or
trenches, or lay any drive within a radius of five feet from any tree now
growing upon any public highway or other public place within the village
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village Street
Superintendent. Any person, firm or corporation making an excavation or
construction shall guard any tree within five feet thereof with a good,
substantial frame box to be approved by the Village Street Superintendent and
all building material or other debris shall be kept at least four feet from any
tree.
(1988 Code, § 3.3205) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.07 OVERHANGING TREES, SHRUBS OR PLANTS.
   Every owner of any tree, shrub or plant overhanging the streets or highways
within the village shall trim the branches so that the branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the street highway. The owner or owners shall remove all dead,
diseased or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a
menace to the safety of the public.
(1988 Code, § 3.3206) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.08 CORNER LOTS.
   All bushes, shrubs or plants located on any corner lot within the village
shall not be permitted to grow to a height of more than three feet above the
surface of the roadway in order that the view of the drivers of vehicles
approaching the street intersection shall not be obstructed. It shall be the
duty of the Village Street Superintendent in all cases of violation of this
section to order the owner or owners of the bush, shrub or plant to cut the
same within ten days to the height specified; the Superintendent shall report
the matters to the Village Council, who may then order the bush, shrub or plant
to be cut to the height specified, and the cost of the work shall be levied
against the owner or owners and collected by special assessment against the
property.
(1988 Code, § 3.3207) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.09 RULES FOR FUTURE PLANTINGS IN HIGHWAYS, PARKS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   In all future planting of shade and ornamental trees in the highways,
parks and public places of the village, the following rules as to spacing shall
be observed:
      (1)   Elm trees shall be spaced not less than 40 feet.
      (2)   Oak trees shall be spaced not less than 35 feet; and
      (3)   Other shade trees and ornamental trees shall be spaced not less
than 30 feet.
   (B)   Provided, however, that any owner of a single lot may, in order to
provide a shade or ornamental tree in front of his or her lot, secure special
permission from the Village Street Superintendent to plant a shade or
ornamental tree within less distance from any existing tree than the spacing
above mentioned, but shall in no case make special planting within 20 feet of
any existing shade or ornamental tree located on the public highway or other
public property or public place.
(1988 Code, § 3.3208) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.10 RULES FOR PLANTINGS IN PARKWAYS.
   No trees shall be planted in parkways between the curb line less than three
and one-half feet from the curb line, nor less than three feet from the
sidewalk; provided, however, where the parkways are less than six feet six
inches in width, any tree planted within shall be located not less than two
feet six inches from the curb and as near midway between the curb and sidewalk
as possible.
(1988 Code, § 3.3209) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.11 PLANTINGS AND INTERSECTIONS.
   No tree shall be planted nearer to the intersection of two or more streets
than 15 feet from the nearest street line bounding the intersection.
(1988 Code, § 3.3210) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.12 PROHIBITED PLANTINGS IN PUBLIC HIGHWAYS, PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC
PLACES.
   No poplar (poplus), soft maples (acer), willows (salix) or box elders (acer)
shall hereafter be planted in the public highways, parks or other public places
of the village.
(1988 Code, § 3.3211) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.13 PUBLIC NUISANCE; REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Street Superintendent to remove or cause
the removal of all trees, shrubs or plants planted upon the public highways,
parks or other places within the village which constitute a public nuisance, or
where in his or her opinion, the removal shall be beneficial to the peace,
health and safety of the public.
(1988 Code, § 3.3212) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 100.14 RULES FOR REMOVAL OF LIVING TREES FROM THE PUBLIC HIGHWAY, PARKS OR
OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to remove a living tree from the
public highway, parks or other public places of the village for the
construction of walks, drives, buildings or other structures for his or her own
private purpose, shall make a deposit equal to the replacement value of the
tree or trees, as determined by the Village Street Superintendent. The deposits
shall be paid into the village treasury and shall be used first for the
replacing of a tree in front of the lot from which it is removed, if the
replacement is considered advisable or desirable, otherwise to be used for
planting on public highways in some other location where needed.
(1988 Code, § 3.3213) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988)
§ 100.15 INTERFERENCE WITH AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENT OF THE VILLAGE
STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   No person shall hinder, prevent or interfere with the agents or employees of
the Department of Village Street Superintendent while engaged in carrying out
the provisions of this chapter.
(1988 Code, § 3.3214) (Ord. passed 5-2-1955; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 101: WEED CONTROL
Section
   
101.01   Weed control
   
101.02   Abatement
   
101.03   Interference with agents or employees of the village
§ 101.01 WEED CONTROL.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, possessor or occupier of land, and
every person, firm or corporation having charge of any land within the village
to cut or remove and to destroy all grass, Canada thistles, wild carrots, ox-
eye daisies, ragweed or any other noxious weeds growing thereon at least once
each year before May 1, and as often as necessary thereafter to prevent weeds
and non- decorative landscape grass from exceeding six inches on residential
property. Grass and weed growth on nonresidential property shall not exceed
eight inches. The aforesaid plants are hereby declared to be noxious weeds and
to constitute a public nuisance.
(1988 Code, § 6.6200) (Ord. passed 8-8-1944; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988; Ord. passed 8-17-1992; Ord. passed 3-20-2000; Ord. passed 9-17-2001;
Ord. passed 5-20-2002; Ord. passed 6-3-2002; Ord. passed 7-15-2002; Ord. passed
8-5-2002; Ord. passed 5-16-2005; Ord. passed 5-19-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 101.02 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If the provisions of §
101.01 are not complied with, the Chief of Police or his or her agent shall
serve either personally, by certified mail, or a document attached to the door
a written notification to the owner, lessee, or occupant or any person having
the care or control of any lot or land to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or
refuses to cut and remove, or to cause to be cut and removed, or otherwise
destroys weeds, grass or vegetation within seven days after receipt of the
notice, or if no person can be found in the village who either is or claims to
be the owner of the lot or land, or either represents, or claims to represent
the owner, the Street Superintendent shall contact a contractor to enter
private property and cause the weeds, grass or vegetation to be cut and removed
or otherwise destroyed.
   (C)   The actual cost of the weeds, grass, or vegetation removal shall be
paid by the owner of the property, plus a fine of $200 for the first offense
and $300 for each subsequent offense per parcel, per cutting, removal, or
destroying.
   (D)   The Street Superintendent shall certify the costs to the Village
Council and shall, thereupon, become a lien upon the property on which weeds,
grass or vegetation were located, and shall be added to, and shall become and
form part of the taxes next to be assessed upon the lot or land, and shall bear
interest at the same rate as taxes, and shall be collected and enforced by the
same officer and in the same manner as other taxes.
(1988 Code, § 6.6201) (Ord. passed 8-8-1944; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
1-18-1988; Ord. passed 8-17-1992; Ord. passed 3-20-2000; Ord. passed 9-17-2001;
Ord. passed 5-20-2002; Ord. passed 6-3-2002; Ord. passed 7-15-2002; Ord. passed
8-5-2002; Ord. passed 5-16-2005; Ord. passed 7-5-2011; Ord. passed 7-2-2012;
Ord. passed 4-21-2014; Ord. passed 5-19-2014)
§ 101.03 INTERFERENCE WITH AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, prevent or interfere with the agents or
employees of the village while engaged in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99(B).
(Ord. passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 102: INGESTION OR CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICAL AGENT
Section
   
102.01   Ingestion or consumption of chemical agent prohibited
   
102.02   Definitions
 
   
102.99   Penalty
§ 102.01 INGESTION OR CONSUMPTION OF CHEMICAL AGENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication,
euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction, or dulling of the senses or
nervous system, intentionally ingest any chemical agent or harmful substances
or intentionally drink, eat, or otherwise introduce any chemical agent or other
harmful substance into his or her respiratory or circulatory system. This shall
not prohibit the inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2012) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL AGENT and HARMFUL SUBSTANCE. Any substance containing toxic
chemical or organic solvent or both or any substance that is not made or
intended for consumption by humans, including, but not limited to glue, paint,
acetone, toluene, carbon tetrachloride, hydrocarbons, and hydrocarbon
derivatives, Dust Off, bath salts, plant food, aquarium sand, K-2, Spice,
potpourri, incense, noxious weeds or plants such as Jimson weed.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2012)
§ 102.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates §
102.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than
93 days or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2012)
CHAPTER 103: SALE, POSSESSION, OR USE OF FIREWORKS
Section
   
103.01   Sale, possession, or use of fireworks
   
103.02   Permit required
   
103.03   Exemptions
   
103.04   Definitions
   
103.05   Prohibition on use of all fireworks except as allowed; exception
   
103.06   Prohibition on use of display fireworks; exception
   
103.07   Prohibition on use of consumer fireworks; exception
   
103.08   Limitations on the use of low-impact or novelty fireworks
   
103.09   Restrictions
   
103.10   Discharging fireworks restrictions
   
103.11   Application
 
   
103.99   Penalty
§ 103.01 SALE, POSSESSION, OR USE OF FIREWORKS.
   Prohibited generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale,
expose for sale, or sell at retail, have in possession, give, furnish, use,
explode or cause to explode any firecracker, torpedo or other fireworks of like
construction in the village, except as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The Village Council may, upon application in writing, grant a permit for the
use of such fireworks, when handled by a competent operator, for public display
of fireworks by municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks or other
organizations or groups of individuals approved by the Village Council. After
such permit shall have been granted, sales, possession and use of firecrackers,
torpedoes and other fireworks of like construction may be only for such
purposes as those to which the permit extends.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the sale,
transportation, possession or use of any firecrackers, torpedoes or other
firework of like construction for signal purposes by railroads, trucks or
automobiles.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall be defined as
hereafter stated:
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
consumer product safety commission under 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and that
are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are
often commonly known as, but not limited to, sky rockets, bottle rockets,
missile-type rockets, helicopters, aerial spinners, roman candles, mine and
shell devices, aerial shell kits, firecrackers, chasers, and certain multiple
tube fireworks devices. CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include low-impact fireworks.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive material
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visual or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, as provided in 27
CFR 555.11, 49 CFR 172, and APA standard 87-1.
   FIREWORK(S). Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a
flare gun, or flare, designated for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS consist of
consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks, and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5. Low
impact fireworks are often commonly known as, but not limited to, sparklers,
cylindrical fountains, cone fountains, illuminating torches, wheels, ground
spinners, flitter sparklers, certain toy smoke devices, certain wire sparklers/
dipped sticks, and certain multiple tube firework devices.
   NATIONAL HOLIDAY. Any of the following: New Year's Day (January 1); birthday
of Martin Luther King Jr. (third Monday in January); Washington's Birthday
(third Monday in February); Memorial Day (last Monday in May); Independence Day
(July 4); Labor Day (first Monday in September); Columbus Day (second Monday in
October); Veteran's Day (November 11); Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in
November); and Christmas Day (December 25).
   NOVELTIES or NOVELTY. That term as defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.2,
3.2.1, 3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistol in sheets, strips, rolls,
or individual caps containing not more that .25 of a grain of explosive content
per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cup.
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and toy
guns in which toy caps as described in division (1) are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion.
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding l/8th inch in
diameter.
   SPECIAL EFFECTS. Any item that produces a special effect, including fire
pots, flames, strobes, gerbs etc.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.05 PROHIBITION ON USE OF ALL FIREWORKS EXCEPT AS ALLOWED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ignite, discharge, or use any fireworks within the Village
of Sebewaing except as allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.06 PROHIBITION ON USE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall ignite, discharge or use display fireworks within the
Village of Sebewaing at any time, unless the following are true;
   (B)   It is a professional, licensed fireworks company; and
   (C)   The Village Council approves the issuance of a license or permit.
   (D)   A permit shall not be issued under the act to non-resident person,
firm, or corporation of this state for the ignition of display fireworks until
the person, firm, or corporation has appointed in writing a resident member of
the bar of that state or a resident agent to be the legal representative upon
whom all process in an action or proceeding against the person, firm, or
corporation may be served.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.07 PROHIBITION ON USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within the
Village of Sebewaing, except this prohibition shall not preclude any person
from the ignition, discharge and use of consumer fireworks on the preceding,
the day of, or the day after a national holiday consistent with Sec. 7 (2) of
Michigan Public Act 256 of 2011, as amended. Consumer fireworks ignited,
discharged, or used on the dates allowed by this section shall be prohibited
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. and shall strictly conform to the
definition of consumer fireworks as stated in this chapter and state statute by
only creating visual but not audible effects by their combustion and if not so
conforming shall be prohibited on said dates as well as all other times. In
addition no person shall ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks on public
property, school property, church property, or the property of another person
without that organization's or person's express permission to use those
fireworks on those premises.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.08 LIMITATIONS ON THE USE OF LOW-IMPACT OR NOVELTY FIREWORKS.
   Low-impact fireworks shall be ignited, discharged, or used so as to not
cause injury or damage to any person or property but shall not be ignited,
discharged, or used inside any building or structure at any time without a
license or permit issued by the Fire Chief. Novelty fireworks may be ignited,
discharged, or used without restriction but such shall only occur in a manner
so as to not cause injury or damage to any person or property.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.09 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Fireworks shall not be sold to a minor.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 years old shall use, possess, explode or
cause to explode any fireworks, as defined herein, with the village.
   (C)   No person under the age of 18 years shall buy, purchase, acquire or
obtain any fireworks, as defined herein, within the village.
   (D)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks on
public property, school property, church property, or the property of another
person (apartment, hotel, motel, condominium, etc.) without that organization's
or person's express permission.
   (E)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use personal fireworks on the
day before, day of and the day after the defined national holidays between 1:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (F)   Consumer fireworks and low-impact fireworks may not be ignited,
discharged, or used by anyone who is under the influence of alcohol and/or a
controlled substance.
   (G)   The user of fireworks must follow the manufacturer's instructions for
use. Fireworks also may not be used in manner which is likely to, or does,
cause harm to another or to property, and they may not be used in a manner that
violates other village ordinances such as littering, disturbing the peace, or
violating the village's noise and nuisance ordinance.
   (H)   The ignition of fireworks and novelties are required to comply with
manufacturer's directions and prohibits ignition by the use of anything except
a match, lighter, or a punk. No other ignition sources are permitted when
igniting fireworks and novelties in the village.
   (I)   A penalty may be imposed on any person who aids, abets, perpetuates,
participates in, or otherwise promotes actions of another that are in violation
of the village ordinance requirements and restrictions.
   (J)   Police and fire officials are permitted to confiscate fireworks and
fireworks paraphernalia involved in any violation of the village ordinance.
   (K)   Minors may not ignite consumer fireworks.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.10 DISCHARGING FIREWORKS RESTRICTIONS.
   The discharge of fireworks and novelties are required to comply with the
manufacturer's directions and prohibits discharging consumer fireworks in the
following ways:
   (A)   At any person, vehicle, or conveyance;
   (B)   During wind speeds exceeding ten miles per hour;
   (C)   From any location not at ground level;
   (D)   From any surface that is not flat and level;
   (E)   From within any container or object that could impede the aerial
progress of the firework or cause a fire or explosion;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a property line;
   (G)   Within 25 feet of a building;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of a flame or flammable surface;
   (I)   Within 500 feet of a gas station;
   (J)   Within any enclosed space;
   (K)   Within any public road or right-of-way; and
   (L)   Within, upon, or from a motor vehicle.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.11 APPLICATION.
   If any provision of this chapter differs from a provisions of any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation, both the provision of this
chapter and the differing provision shall apply if possible. If the two
provisions are in conflict, then the provision establishing the higher or
stricter standard shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
§ 103.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be imposed a
civil fine of not more than $500 for each violation of the chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   SOLICITATION
         
111.   CABLE ANTENNA FRANCHISES
         
112.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: SOLICITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Exempt persons
   
110.03   Registration
Rules and Procedures
   
110.15   Prohibited areas
   
110.16   Enforcement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLICITOR. Any individual(s) traveling either by foot, automobile, motor
truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of any goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property for current or future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed currently or in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale or whether such individual is collecting advance payments on such sales or
not.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 110.02 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter,
but shall be subject to the other provisions hereof:
   (A)   Any person exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter by
virtue of State of Michigan or Federal law.
   (B)   Any person under 18 years of age, when engaged in the business of
being a solicitor under the direct supervision of any school or recognized
charitable organization or religious organization.
   (C)   Any person who is the duly authorized representative or agent of any
church, charitable or labor organization, education or fraternal organization,
any political candidate who has filed for political office, or of any political
group seeking funds or membership or contacting members or electors.
   (D)   Any person engaging in business solely at a village-recognized market
or event, provided that all transactions are conducted solely within the
confines of that village-recognized market or event and that the rules and
regulations of the village-recognized market or event are observed.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 110.03 REGISTRATION.
   No person shall engage in the business of being a solicitor without first
having obtained a permit. Persons desiring a permit as provided for in this
article shall file an application on a form prescribed or provided by the
Village Clerk. Applications for a permit shall be completed in their entirety
and submitted at least one business day prior to the commencement of the
proposed business of being a solicitor. Persons seeking a permit from the
village must have identification with a company logo and the person's picture
for all persons identified on the permit as representing the applicant or the
applicant's company or organization.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
RULES AND PROCEDURES
§ 110.15 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon the premises of private residences
in the village by solicitors not having been requested or invited to do so by
the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of private residences for the
purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/
or for the purpose of displaying those goods, wares and merchandise and/or for
the purpose of soliciting or procuring contributions or donations in exchange
for, or in connection with, the distribution of goods, wares, merchandise or
other things, having become persistent, frequent and common, being a great
annoyance to owners or occupants and to the public at large, as well as in many
instances resulting in the defrauding of the owners or occupants, and in some
instances various violations of the laws while upon the premises, and being in
general injurious to the public welfare, is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and is prohibited and punishable as a public nuisance and as a
violation of this code.
   (B)   No person, whether permitted pursuant to the provisions of this
article or not, shall stop or remain in any one location in any street, alley
or public place within the village to conduct business as a solicitor for
longer than is necessary to make a sale to a customer wishing to engage in a
transaction,
   (C)   No solicitor shall engage in activity on any street, alley or public
place after having been requested to desist by any police officer of the
village because of congested or dangerous traffic conditions.
   (D)   No solicitor shall solicit at any dwelling or residence except after
9:00 a.m. and before 8:00 p.m. or dusk (whichever is earlier), Monday through
Saturday, without an appointment.
   (E)   No solicitor, whether permitted pursuant to this article or not, shall
barter, sell, or offer for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise, or actively
solicit funds on property against the wish or desire of the property owner,
tenant, or occupant of such property, or group of properties as expressed
through a "no solicitation" or "no trespassing" sign, a sign displaying words
of similar import, or any other means.
   (F)   Except as permitted by the village, it shall be unlawful for any
solicitor to shout, cry, whistle, blow a horn, ring a bell, use or employ any
flashing lights on any vehicle, or any other device, or use any sound device
including loud speakers or sound amplifiers for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares, merchandise, or services which the permit holder
proposes to sell.
   (G)   No person shall operate or maintain any stand, vehicle, store or place
of business on or near any highway in a manner that the customers of or traders
with the person occupy or congregate within the limits of any street, lane,
highway or public place within the village.
   (H)   No person shall be permitted to use the streets, alleys, lanes or
public places of the village for the service of customers, or for the
transaction of business, or to use any stands, stores or other places of
business in any manner that shall require the customer, when transacting
business, to stand within the limits of the streets, highways, alleys or public
places of the village.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 110.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer to require any
person seen soliciting who is not known by such officer to be duly permitted,
to show proof of a permit issued by the Village Clerk, and to enforce the
provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating them.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any law enforcement officer to examine all
persons in their territories subject to the provisions of this chapter to
verify compliance with this chapter and to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   When the conduct of any solicitor is so adversarial to the public
health, safety, and general welfare as to constitute a nuisance, any law
enforcement officer shall have the authority to summarily order the cessation
of soliciting.
   (D)   The Village Clerk or any police officer is authorized to revoke any
permit issued under this chapter for violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. A person who violates this article is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction subject to payment of a civil fine
of not more than $100 reimbursement to the village for charges assessed for the
expense of the abatement, plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
110.06(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Increased civil fines. Increased civil fines may be imposed for
repeated violations by a person of any requirement or provision of this
chapter. As used in this chapter, "repeat offense" means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any 18-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (C)   The increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
no less than $150 plus reimbursement to the village for charges assessed for
the expenses of the abatement, plus costs and other sanctions for each
infraction.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $250 plus reimbursement to the
village for charges assessed for the expense of the abatement, plus costs and
other sanctions for each infraction.
   (D)   Additional fees. In addition to the remedies and penalties otherwise
provided in this chapter, the village may seek temporary and permanent
equitable relief to abate and enjoin violations of this chapter and shall have
all other remedies provided by law or equity.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE ANTENNA FRANCHISES
Section
Nonexclusive Franchise for Cable Antenna Television
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Financial statement
   
111.04   Indemnification
   
111.05   Insurance
   
111.06   Issuance of franchise
   
111.07   Rights of grantee in streets
   
111.08   Conditions of street occupancy
   
111.09   Operation of CATV system
   
111.10   Duty to provide service
   
111.11   Modification of Federal Communication Commission provisions
   
111.12   Rates
   
111.13   Granting of franchise
   
111.14   Term of franchise
   
111.15   Transfer
   
111.16   Termination
Regulations and Procedures for Basic Cable TV Rate Regulation
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   Purposes and interpretation
   
111.32   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
111.33   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
111.34   Proprietary information
   
111.35   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
111.36   Tolling order
   
111.37   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
111.38   Staff or consultant's report; written response
   
111.39   Rate decision and order
   
111.40   Refunds; notice
   
111.41   Written decisions; public notice
   
111.42   Rules and regulations
   
111.43   Failure to give notice
   
111.44   Additional hearings
   
111.45   Additional powers
   
111.46   Failure to comply; remedy
   
111.47   Conflict provision
   
111.48   Effective date
NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE FOR CABLE ANTENNA TELEVISION
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
consistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word shall is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION or CATV. The business of transmission and
distribution of television signals including radio signals by means of cable to
private subscribers, and does not include the operation of a master television
antenna system, the distribution system of which is confined to private
property.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Sebewaing.
   GRANTEE. The holder of a franchise issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   STREET. A street, alley or other public way in the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sebewaing.
(1988 Code, § 7.7200) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   Franchises to provide CATV services hereunder will be granted by the Council
as hereinafter provided and shall be applied for by written application in form
approved by the Village Council and filed with the Village Clerk, which
application shall include, but not be limited to, name of applicant; local
business address; principal officers or owners; principal stockholders, if a
corporation; location of antenna tower or towers; general description of
proposed distribution system in the village showing area proposed to be served
and indicating whether applicant will require poles in the village streets or
whether cables and appliances to be utilized by it in the village streets will
be located on existing poles of utility companies; service to be provided and
rates to be charged, including installation charge per location; service charge
for one receiver and for each additional receiver on the same premises.
(1988 Code, § 7.7201) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
Editor's Note:
   The Uniform Video Services Act, 2006 Public Act 480 supersedes any cable
antenna franchise ordinance listed in this chapter
§ 111.03 FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   Each applicant shall attach to his or her application an authenticated
statement of financial condition and net worth sufficient in form and content
so that the Council may readily determine its financial responsibility and its
ability to finance the proposed undertaking.
(1988 Code, § 7.7202) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.04 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The grantee shall save the village harmless from all loss sustained by the
village on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever
resulting from the construction, operation or maintenance of its television
system in the village. The village shall notify the grantee within 30 days
after the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise,
made against the village under which grantee would be liable, as set forth
above. The notice shall be given in writing to the person and at the place
indicated in the application for the franchise.
(1988 Code, § 7.7203) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.05 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The grantee shall provide insurance in a form as shall protect the
village and itself from and against any and all claims for injury or damage to
persons or property, both real and personal, resulting from the construction,
erection, operation or maintenance of the television system pursuant to the
authority of the franchise granted hereunder in limits as follows.
Worker's Compensation Statutory
Worker's Compensation Statutory
General liability:
   Bodily injury   Each occurrence $1,000,000
   Property damage Each occurrence $300,000
                      Aggregate:
Automobile:
   Bodily injury   Each person     $1,000,000
                      Each occurrence $1,000,000
   Property damage Each occurrence $300,0000
 
   (B)   Each policy shall provide for ten-days' notice in writing to the
village of change in the policy or cancellation.
(1988 Code, § 7.7204) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.06 ISSUANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   No franchise shall be issued by the village to any until:
   (A)   The grantee's legal character, financial, technical and other
qualifications, including fulfillment of the requirements of §§
111.02 through
111.05 of this chapter and the adequacy of and feasibility of its contract
arrangements have been approved by the Council;
   (B)   Procedures have been adopted by the grantee and the Council for the
investigation and resolving of all complaints regarding cable television
operation;
   (C)   The grantee has established and keeps maintained a regular business
office for the purposes specified in division (A) above;
   (D)   The Village Clerk, or other village official as the Council may
designate, shall be determined by the Council as primarily responsible for
conducting administration of the franchise and implementation of complaint
proceedings; and
   (E)   Provision is made in the franchise that the grantee, shall give notice
of the proceedings for reporting and resolving complaints to each subscriber at
the time of the initial subscription to the cable system.
(1988 Code, § 7.7205) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.07 RIGHTS OF GRANTEE IN STREETS.
   The grantee shall have the rights, so long as its franchise is in force and
effect, to utilize the streets of the village for the transmission of
television and radio signals as herein authorized from its antenna location or
locations to the premises of subscribers. The grantee may erect all necessary
wires, cables and appurtenances in the streets, subject to approval of the
Village Council of the placement of any necessary poles; or grantee may at its
option, authorize subject to the same conditions as to the placement of poles,
the installation of the cables and appurtenances by others on a lease, rental,
fee or other basis and all wires, cables, conduits, appurtenances and poles
placed or installed by others for the use of the grantee shall exist and
continue to exist solely by authority of the permission granted to the grantee.
After securing a written agreement with the Light and Water Department, the
grantee shall use poles in place owned by the Village Light and Water
Department when the poles are properly situated for the grantee's purposes, and
shall pay a reasonable rental fee to the Village Light Department, which fee
shall be negotiated between the grantee and the village.
(1988 Code, § 7.7206) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.08 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Use. All transmission and distribution structures and lines erected by
the grantee or on its behalf within the village shall be located as to cause
minimum interference with the reasonable use of streets, and to cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of the streets.
   (B)   Restoration. In case of any disturbance of pavement, sidewalk,
driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall at its own expense and in a
manner approved by the Village Council replace and restore all paving,
sidewalk, driveway or surfacing of any street or alley disturbed in as good
condition as before the work was commenced, and shall maintain the restoration
in an approved condition for a period of five years.
   (C)   Relocation. In the event that at any time during the existence of a
franchise granted hereunder the village shall lawfully widen, realign or
otherwise alter the street right-of-way, or construct, reconstruct, realign,
change the grade of or otherwise alter pavement of any water main, fire
hydrant, sewer or appurtenances, the grantee and anyone acting for it in
connection with the use of the streets, upon reasonable notice by the village
shall remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   (D)   Conduit districts. In conduit districts now or thereafter established
by ordinances of the village, and as hereafter amended or altered, and in other
areas of the village in which telephone lines and electric utility lines are
underground, all of the grantee's lines, cables and wires shall be underground.
(1988 Code, § 7.7207) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.09 OPERATION OF CATV SYSTEM.
   (A)   The grantee's receiving and distribution equipment and facilities
shall be constructed, operated and maintained so as to provide usable signals
at subscribers' television receivers essentially of the same quality as
received at the antenna site.
   (B)   The grantee shall in operation of its CATV system, comply with all
applicable laws, ordinances and rules, regulations and requirements of federal,
state and local agencies and codes.
   (C)   The grantee shall provide service without cost, except for
installation, which may be billed on a "time and material" basis for one outlet
per floor of every public or private elementary and secondary school building,
fire station, Village Hall, library, police station and/or other public
buildings, as requested by the Village Council.
   (D)   In the event of emergency or disaster, the grantee shall upon request
of the Village President or his or her designee make available its facilities
to the village at the grantee's reasonable cost for use during an emergency
disaster.
   (E)   The grantee shall:
      (1)   Locate and correct malfunctions properly, in no event longer than
72 hours after notice; and
      (2)   Demonstrate to subscribers by instrument, or otherwise, the
adequacy of the signal.
   (F)   The grantee shall supply signals so that there is at least one station
for each of the major broadcasting networks. The remaining available stations
carried shall be at the grantee's option provided the public-access
requirements as herein stipulated are met.
   (G)   In addition to standard broadcast channels, the grantee shall make
available public, educational and governmental channels, as required by the
Federal Communications Commission and all other channels and services set forth
in the grantee's franchise application.
   (H)   The public-access channels shall be equipped to transmit one-half inch
video tape or to convert the same to a transmissible size.
   (I)   The grantee shall make available to its subscribers at the grantee's
cost price converter switches permitting the subscriber to switch from the
system to any privately owned antenna system at will.
   (J)   The grantee shall not sell television or radio-receiving sets or parts
to its CATV subscribers, except that it may repair and service to the extent
necessary to establish the validity of its CATV signal.
(1988 Code, § 7.7208) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.10 DUTY TO PROVIDE SERVICE.
   The grantee shall make its CATV service available to all residents of the
village.
(1988 Code, § 7.7209) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.11 MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL COMMUNICATION COMMISSION PROVISIONS.
   Any modification of the provisions of § 76.31 of the Federal Communication
Commission rules shall be incorporated into any franchise issued by the village
within one year of adoption of the modification or at the time of the franchise
renewal, whichever occurs first.
(1988 Code, § 7.7210) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.12 RATES.
   (A)   The grantee shall establish rates and charges which are fair,
reasonable and nondiscriminatory.
   (B)   The rates and charges and changes thereto shall be effective 30 days
after approval by the Village Council.
   (C)   A copy of all approved rates shall be on file with the Village Clerk
for public examination.
(1988 Code, § 7.7211) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.13 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE.
   The Council shall grant a CATV franchise hereunder to each applicant who
makes proper application, establishes its qualifications as herein set forth,
furnishes the required insurance and assurances, and who establishes that its
operations will not impose an unreasonable burden on village streets, nor
hazards to operation of any village-owned facilities. No franchise granted
hereunder shall be exclusive.
(1988 Code, § 7.7212) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.14 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   Each franchise issued hereunder shall be for the term of 15 years with
review of requirements by the Village Council on a yearly basis. A franchise
may be terminated as herein provided.
(1988 Code, § 7.7213) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.15 TRANSFER.
   Franchises granted hereunder are not transferable except on approval of the
Council. The proposed transferee shall file an application in a form approved
by the Village Council and shall satisfy all other requirements of the
subchapter.
(1988 Code, § 7.7214) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
§ 111.16 TERMINATION.
   (A)   The grantee may surrender its franchise at any time in which event it
shall refund all prepaid and unearned service and other charges collected from
subscribers.
   (B)   The Council may terminate the franchise of any grantee who shall
default in any of its obligations hereunder, except for causes beyond the
reasonable control of the grantee, provided that the grantee shall be given 60
days' written notice to correct any default or noncompliance before the Council
may proceed to terminate the franchise under this section. If the default
cannot be corrected within 60 days for a valid reason, the Village Council
shall extend the time for a reasonable period. The grantee shall be entitled to
a hearing before the Council to determine the propriety of termination of the
franchise by it pursuant to this section. The decision of the Council shall be
final.
   (C)   Upon termination of its franchise, the grantee shall at its own
expense remove from the village streets all of its facilities and equipment
therein utilized by it in its CATV operation unless the Council shall
specifically authorize it to leave all or part of the facilities and equipment
in place.
(1988 Code, § 7.7215) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 1-8-1988)
REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR BASIC CABLE TV RATE REGULATION
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   Contains certain definitions and provides that all other words and phrases
have the same meaning as defined in the 1984 and 1992 Cable Acts ("Cable Act")
and FCC rules.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.31 PURPOSES AND INTERPRETATION.
   Recites the purpose as adopting regulations and procedures governing basic
cable service regulations consistent with the Cable Act and FCC rules.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.32 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   Provides for compliance with all FCC rules regarding the regulation of basic
cable television service.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.33 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   Provides that the cable operator must submit its schedule of rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment or proposed increase in the rate in
accordance with the Act and the FCC rules; authorizes the adoption of rules and
regulations prescribing information, data and calculations which must be
included as part of the cable operator's filing; authorizes an appropriate
official to obtain additional information from the cable operators; and places
on the cable operator the burden of proving that its rates comply with the
Cable Act and FCC rules.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.34 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   Prescribes procedures consistent with FCC rules regarding requests for
confidentiality of proprietary information submitted by the cable operator.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.35 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   Requires publishing a public notice of the filing of the cable operator's
schedule of rates or a proposed rate increase; and requires notice to the cable
operator of when the rates will first be considered.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.36 TOLLING ORDER.
   The proposed schedule of rates or rate increase shall become effective 30
days after submission unless tolled pursuant to FCC rules.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.37 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   Provides for a public hearing to be held subject to certain public notice
requirements if a tolling order has been issued pursuant to §
111.36.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.38 STAFF OR CONSULTANT'S REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Provides that following the public hearing municipal staff or consultant
shall make a written report and recommendation on rate decisions and the cable
operator may respond prior to final action.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.39 RATE DECISION AND ORDER.
   Authorizes rate decisions and orders in accordance with FCC rules.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.40 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   Authorizes refunds in accordance with FCC rules provided prior notice and
opportunity to comment is given to the cable operator.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.41 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Provides that rate orders shall be in writing, be effective upon adoption
and deemed released to the public upon adoption; requires publication of a
public notice and mailing of the decision to the cable operator.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.42 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Authorizes the adoption of rules and regulations for basic cable service
rate regulation proceedings.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.43 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   Provides that failure to give the notices or mail copies of reports as
required will not invalidate decisions or proceedings.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.44 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   Authorizes additional public hearings upon reasonable notice.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.45 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   Provides that the powers exercised pursuant to the subchapter are in
addition to other powers conferred by law or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.46 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDY.
    Provides for legal and equitable remedies for failure of the cable operator
to comply with the Act, the FCC rules, any rate orders or determinations, any
requirements of the subchapter or any rules or regulations promulgated under
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.47 CONFLICT PROVISION.
   In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and other ordinances or
the franchise agreement, this subchapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
§ 111.48 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on September 22, 1993.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1993)
CHAPTER 112: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Marihuana establishments prohibited
§ 112.01 MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to the Michigan Regulations and Taxation of Marihuana Act, Section
6.1, the village elects to prohibit marihuana establishments within its
boundaries.
(Ord. passed 1-21-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Acts prohibited
Curfew
   
130.15   Minors under 12
   
130.16   Minors under 16
   
130.17   Minors under 18
   
130.18   Parents, guardians and the like
   
130.19   Exemptions
   
130.20   Parental responsibility
Assault and Battery
   
130.30   Assault and battery
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public and any other place
which is open to the public view or to which the public has access.
(1988 Code, § 9.9300) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 130.02 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. No person within the village shall:
      (1)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral or obscene conduct in
any public place;
      (2)   Discharge any firearm, air rifle, air pistol or bow and arrow in
the village, except when lawfully acting in the defense of persons or property
or the enforcement of law or at a duly established range the operation of which
has been approved by the Village Council;
      (3)   Fire, discharge, display or possess any fireworks except the type
and under the conditions permitted by Chapter 39 of the Penal Code of the
state, as amended;
      (4)   Engage in peeping in the windows of any inhabited place;
      (5)   Bathe in any body of water in a naked state or with his or her
person so much undressed that there shall be an indecent exposure of the body;
      (6)   Utter vile, profane or obscene language in any public place;
      (7)   Willfully destroy, damage or in any manner deface any property not
his or her own or any public school building or any public building, bridge,
fire hydrant, street light, street sign or parking meter; or mark or post
handbills on or in any manner mar the walls of any public building; or destroy,
take or meddle with any property belonging to the village or remove the same
from the building or place it may be kept, placed or stored without proper
authority;
      (8)   Insult, accost, molest or otherwise annoy either by word of mouth,
sign or motion any person in any public place;
      (9)   Engage in any disturbance, fight or quarrel in a public place;
      (10)   Collect or stand in crowds or arrange, encourage or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
      (11)   Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any street, alley, park or
public building;
      (12)   Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public building
or conduct himself or herself in any public place so as to obstruct the free
and uninterrupted passage of the public;
      (13)   Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon for
any purpose;
      (14)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct;
      (15)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to
be a resort of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons;
      (16)   Wander about the streets, either by day or night, without any
lawful means of support or without being able to give a satisfactory account of
himself or herself;
      (17)   Prowl about any alley or private premises of any other person in
the nighttime, without authority or the permission of the owner of the
premises;
      (18)   Jump, dive or in any other way leap or assist anyone else to jump,
dive or leap from any bridge within the village limits; and
      (19)   Be intoxicated in a public place and either endanger directly the
safety of another person or property, or act in a manner that causes a public
disturbance.
(1988 Code, § 9.9301)
   (B)   Further acts prohibited. It is unlawful for a person to use and/or
possess a controlled substance known as marijuana, unless the substance was
obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a
practitioner while acting in the course of his or her professional practice.
(1988 Code, § 9.9302)
(Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988; Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty,
see §
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.15 MINORS UNDER 12.
   No minor under the age of 12 years shall loiter, idle or congregate in or on
any village street, highway, alley or park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. unless the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian or some adult
delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the child.
(1988 Code, § 9.9800) (Ord. passed 5-3-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.16 MINORS UNDER 16.
   No minors under the age of 16 years shall loiter, idle or congregate in or
on any village street, highway, alley or park between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. immediately following except where the minor is accompanied by a
parent or guardian or some adult over the age of 21 years delegated by the
parent or guardian to accompany the minor child or where the minor is upon an
errand to other legitimate business directed by his or her parent or guardian.
(1988 Code, § 9.9801) (Ord. passed 5-3-1965; Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed
5-7-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 MINORS UNDER 18.
   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle or congregate in or on
any village street, highway, alley or park between the hours 12:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. immediately following except when the minor is accompanied by a parent
or guardian or some adult over the age of 21 years delegated by the parent or
guardian to accompany the minor child or where the minor is upon an errand or
other legitimate business directed by his or her parent or guardian.
(1988 Code, § 9.9802) (Ord. passed 5-3-1965; Ord. passed 12-20-1971; Ord.
passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 5-7-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 PARENTS, GUARDIANS AND THE LIKE.
   No parent, guardian or other person having the legal care and custody of any
minor under the age of 18 years shall allow or permit any minor while in his or
her legal custody to loiter, idle or congregate in or upon any public street,
highway, alley or park as prohibited in §§
130.15 through
130.17 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010- , passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
§ 130.20 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is declared necessary for the preservation of
the public peace, health, safety and welfare of the people of the village and
is intended to address situations where parents have failed to act responsibly
and reasonably in the supervision of their minor children to the detriment of
the general public.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DELINQUENT ACTS. Those acts which violate the laws of the United States,
or the statutes of the state or the village of those which would cause or tend
to cause the minor to come under the jurisdiction of the juvenile division of
the probate court, as defined by M.C.L. § 712A.2.
      HABITUAL OFFENDER. One who commits two or more criminal acts or a
combination of four or more criminal acts and/or moving traffic violations
within a 12-month period.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years residing with a parent.
      PARENT. Mother, father, legal guardian and any person having the care or
custody of a minor or any person acting in the parent's stead who have custody
or control over the minor.
   (C)   Parental duties.
      (1)   It is the continuous duty of the parent of any minor to exercise
reasonable control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act.
      (2)   Included (without limitation) in this continuous duty of
responsible parental control are the following duties:
         (a)   To know the curfew provisions of the village (§§
130.15 through
130.19) and to require the minor to observe the curfew provisions;
         (b)   To require the minor to attend regular school sessions and to
prohibit and forbid the minor from being absent from class without permission;
         (c)   To arrange proper supervision for the minor when the parent is
absent;
         (d)   To take the necessary precautions to prevent the minor from
maliciously or willfully destroying real, personal or mixed property which
belongs to the village or is located in the village; and
         (e)   To forbid the minor from keeping stolen property, illegally
possessing firearms or illegal drugs, or associating with known juvenile
delinquents and to seek help from appropriate governmental authorities or
private agencies in handling or controlling the minor when necessary.
   (D)   Notification of parents; record of notification.
      (1)   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained for the commission of any
delinquent act within the village, the parent shall be immediately notified by
the Village Police Department, advising the parent of the arrest or detention,
the reason therefor and the parent's responsibility under this section.
      (2)   A record of the notification shall be kept by the Village Police
Department.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
ASSAULT AND BATTERY
§ 130.30 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   A person who assaults or assaults and batters an individual, if no
other punishment is prescribed by law, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   An individual who assaults or assaults and batters his or her spouse
or former spouse, an individual with whom he or she has had a child in common
or a resident or former resident of his or her household is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Parental responsibility.
      (1)   If a minor commits a delinquent act, the parent shall be guilty of
a violation of §
130.20 if it is proven that any act, word or nonperformance of parental duty by
the parent encouraged, contributed toward or intended to cause the commission
of the delinquent act by the minor.
      (2)   Upon the first conviction of a violation of §
130.20, the parent shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 or more than
$100.
      (3)   Upon the second conviction of a violation of §
130.20, the parent shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 or more
than $500 and in addition, shall be sentenced to probation with the condition
that the parent participate in, through completion, a court approved commonly
based treatment program (such as parenting skills, family services, employment
training and the like) or, in the discretion of the court, be imprisoned for a
period of not less than 15 days or more than 30 days.
      (4)   Upon the third or subsequent violation and conviction, the parent
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250 or more than $500, and in the
discretion of the court, imprisoned for a period of not less than 15 days nor
more than 90 days.
   (C)   Assault and battery.
      (1)   A person who is guilty of a violation of §
130.30(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more
than 90 days or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
      (2)   A person who is guilty of a violation of §
130.30(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more
than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2001; Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Loitering
   
131.01   Application of restrictions
   
131.02   Loitering on vacant portions
   
131.03   Loitering on commercial or industrial buildings
Trespass
   
131.15   Trespass upon lands or premises of another
 
   
131.99   Penalty
LOITERING
§ 131.01 APPLICATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to all premises in the village on which are
located commercial or industrial establishments.
(1988 Code, § 9.9900) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 131.02 LOITERING ON VACANT PORTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a trespass and unlawful for any person to go upon and
loiter and remain upon vacant portions, including driveways and parking areas
of any privately owned commercial or industrial establishments within the
village for any purpose not connected with attending to business in the
establishment on the premises.
(1988 Code, § 9.9901)
   (B)   Vacant portions shall include doorways, entrance ways and indented or
bay areas of any commercial or industrial establishment.
(1988 Code, § 9.9902)
(Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 LOITERING ON COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS.
   It shall be a trespass and unlawful for any person to loiter and remain upon
or against any commercial or industrial building within the village including
standing or sitting in doorways or doorsteps; sitting or leaning against
windows or doors of buildings or other projecting parts of buildings; or
leaning against windows or doors of buildings for any purpose not connected
with attending to business within the building.
(1988 Code, § 9.9903) (Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty, see §
131.99
TRESPASS
§ 131.15 TRESPASS UPON LANDS OR PREMISES OF ANOTHER.
   Any person who shall in the village willfully enter upon the lands or
premises of another without lawful authority, after having been forbidden so to
do by the owner or occupant, agent or servant of the owner or occupant, or any
person being upon the land or premises of another, upon being notified to
depart therefrom by the owner or occupant, the agent or servant of either, who
without lawful authority neglects or refuses to depart therefrom, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
131.15 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 30 days, or by a
fine of not more than $250, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODE
         
151.   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
         
152.   DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
         
153.   ZONING
         
154.   DEMOLITION
         
155.   NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Agency designated
§ 150.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   The County Building Inspector is hereby designated as the enforcing agency
to discharge the responsibilities of the village building code.
(1988 Code, § 8.8100) (Ord. passed 11-4-1974; Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
CHAPTER 151: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   Local enforcing agency
   
151.02   Rules adopted
   
151.03   Submission of plans
   
151.04   Permits and fees
   
151.05   Site inspection
§ 151.01 LOCAL ENFORCING AGENCY.
   It is the intent of the village to become the local enforcing agency in
regard to implementing soil and sedimentation control within the municipal
limits of the village.
(1988 Code, § 8.8200) (Ord. passed 5-19-1975)
§ 151.02 RULES ADOPTED.
   The village hereby adopts by reference the Standards and Specifications of
the Huron Soil Conservation District, as amended from time to time.
(1988 Code, § 8.8201) (Ord. passed 5-19-1975)
§ 151.03 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   Before ground-breaking of any construction project in the village involving
one or more acres of land, an erosion and sedimentation control plan shall be
submitted to the village in accordance with the standards and specifications
mentioned in §
151.02.
(1988 Code, § 8.8202) (Ord. passed 5-19-1975)
§ 151.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   Upon payment of the necessary fees to the village in accordance with a fee
schedule to be determined by the Village Council, and amended from time to time
by simple resolution, the submitted plans shall be reviewed and approved and a
permit shall be issued, provided the plans meet the standards and
specifications adopted by reference in §
151.02 to prevent soil erosion at all major construction sites in the village
in excess of one acre.
(1988 Code, § 8.8203) (Ord. passed 5-19-1975)
§ 151.05 SITE INSPECTION.
   The local enforcing agency shall inspect the construction site at least at
the beginning, during construction and at the end of the project and shall
issue cease and desist orders upon violation of the rules set forth in Public
Act 347 of 1972, being M.C.L. §§ 282.101 through 282.117.
(1988 Code, § 8.8204) (Ord. passed 5-19-1975)
CHAPTER 152: DANGEROUS STRUCTURES
Section
   
152.01   Unlawful conduct
   
152.02   Definition
   
152.03   Notice; contents; Hearing Officer
   
152.04   Hearing; testimony; decision; order; nonappearance or noncompliance;
review; order to show cause; costs
   
152.05   Judicial review
§ 152.01 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
dwelling or part thereof which is a dangerous building as defined in §
152.02.
(1988 Code, § 8.8300) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 152.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any of the following
defects or is in any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit does not conform to the approved Fire Code of the state;
      (2)   Whenever any portion has been damaged by fire, wind, flood or by
any other cause in a manner that the structural strength or stability is
appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than the
minimum requirements of the Building Code of the village for a new building or
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance is likely to fall or
to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property;
      (4)   Whenever any portion has settled to an extent that walls or other
structural portions have materially less resistance to winds than is required
in the case of new construction by the Building Code of the village;
      (5)   Whenever the building or structure or any part because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting the building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to
partially or completely collapse or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give way;
      (6)   Whenever for any reason whatsoever the building or structure or any
portion is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an
attractive nuisance to children who might play therein to their danger, or as
to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or as to enable
persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance or unlawful
or immoral acts;
      (8)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty construction
or arrangement or otherwise is unsanitary or unfit for human habitation or is
in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease when so determined
by the County Health Department, or is likely to work injury to the health,
safety or general welfare of those living within; or
      (9)   Whenever any building becomes vacant, dilapidated and open at door
or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
(1988 Code, § 8.8301) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 152.03 NOTICE; CONTENTS; HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   When the whole or any part of any building or structure is found to be
in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the enforcing agency shall issue a notice
of the dangerous and unsafe condition.
   (B)   The notice shall be directed to each owner of or any party in interest
in the building in whose name the property appears on the last local tax
assessment records.
   (C)   The notice shall specify the time and place of hearing on the
condition of the building structure, at which time and place the person to whom
the notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause why the
building or structure should not be ordered to be demolished or otherwise made
safe.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Village President to
serve at his or her pleasure. The enforcing agency shall file a copy of the
notice of the dangerous and unsafe conditions with the Hearing Officer.
   (E)   All notices shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom they are directed personally, or in lieu of personal service, may be
mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or
party in interest at the address shown on the tax records, at least ten days
before the date of the hearing described in the notice. If any person to whom a
notice is directed is not personally served, in addition to mailing the notice,
a copy thereof shall be posted upon a conspicuous part of the building or
structure.
(1988 Code, § 8.8302) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 152.04 HEARING; TESTIMONY; DECISION; ORDER; NONAPPEARANCE OR NONCOMPLIANCE;
REVIEW; ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE; COSTS.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency, the
owner of the property and any interested party. The Hearing Officer shall
render his or her decision, either closing the proceedings or ordering the
building to be demolished or otherwise made safe.
   (B)   If it is determined by the Hearing Officer that the building or
structure should be demolished, or otherwise made safe, he or she shall so
order, fixing a time in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply
therewith.
   (C)   If the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses
to comply with the order, the Hearing Officer shall file a report of his or her
findings and a copy of his or her order with the legislative body of the
village and request that the necessary action be taken to demolish or otherwise
make safe the building or structure. A copy of the findings and order of the
Hearing Officer shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner
prescribed in §
152.03.
   (D)   The legislative body of the village shall fix a date for hearing,
reviewing the findings and order of the Hearing Officer and shall give notice
to the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in §
152.03 of the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner, agent
or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show cause why the building should
not be demolished or otherwise made safe and the legislative body of the
village shall either approve, disapprove or modify the order for the demolition
or making safe of the building or structure.
   (E)   The cost of the demolition or making the building safe shall be a lien
against the real property and shall be reported to the Village Assessor, who
shall assess the cost against the property on which the building or structure
is located.
   (F)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified of the amount of the
cost by first class mail at the address shown on the records. If he or she
fails to pay the same within 30 days after mailing by the Assessor of the
notice of the amount thereof, the Assessor shall add the same to the next tax
roll of the village: and the same shall be collected in the same manner in all
respects as provided by law for the collection of taxes by the village.
(1988 Code, § 8.8303) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
§ 152.05 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the legislative body
under §
152.04 may appeal the decision or order to the circuit court by filing a
petition for an order of superintending control within 20 days from the date of
the decision.
(1988 Code, § 8.8304) (Ord. passed 4-3-1978; Ord. passed 1-18-1988)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
Short Title and Purpose
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Intent
   
153.004   Prior regulations and requirements
   
153.005   Effective date
Definitions
   
153.010   General
   
153.011   Specific terms
Use Tables
   
153.015   Use tables
   
153.016   Area, height and distance requirements
General Regulations
   
153.020   Use regulations
   
153.021   Dwelling regulations
   
153.022   General development regulations
   
153.023   Buffering
   
153.024   Structural regulations
   
153.025   Blight
Nonconforming Uses and Buildings
   
153.030   Intent
   
153.031   Historic properties
   
153.032   Legality of nonconformities
   
153.033   Loss of legal nonconforming status
   
153.034   Expansion of nonconformity prohibited
   
153.035   Repair
   
153.036   Changing uses
   
153.037   Reconstruction and restoration
   
153.038   Plans already filed
   
153.039   District changes
   
153.040   Regulation of nonconformities
   
153.041   Nonconforming lots
   
153.042   Inventory of nonconformities
   
153.043   Elimination of nonconforming uses by acquisition
Parking and Access
   
153.050   Intent
   
153.051   Construction and design
   
153.052   Residential districts
   
153.053   Commercial districts
   
153.054   Industrial districts
   
153.055   Number of parking spaces required
Signs
   
153.060   Signs
   
153.061   Intent
   
153.062   Permit procedure
   
153.063   Exemptions
   
153.064   Measurement of a sign
   
153.065   Table of signs permitted
   
153.066   Prohibited signs
   
153.067   Illumination
   
153.068   Nonconforming signs
   
153.069   Construction and maintenance
   
153.070   Abandoned signs
Special Use Permits
   
153.080   Intent, purpose, and process
   
153.081   How a special use permit is reviewed
   
153.082   Agricultural bulk collection, storage, distribution
   
153.083   Automobile body and paint shops, service and repair, quick oil change
   
153.084   Cemeteries
   
153.085   Commercial recreation, indoor and outdoor
   
153.086   Cottage industries
   
153.087   Day nurseries
   
153.088   Drive-in, drive thru business
   
153.089   High-intensity uses, waste treatment, and disposal
   
153.090   Institutions: religious, educational, social, human care, retreats,
state licensed residential care seven through 20 people
   
153.091   Kennels and veterinary clinics
   
153.092   Light manufacturing within the building
   
153.093   Manufactured housing park
   
153.094   Ministorage
   
153.095   Outdoor sales and service, body shops, towing, other permanent
outdoor uses
   
153.096   Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
153.097   Publicly owned buildings, public utility transformer stations, and
substations
   
153.098   Recreational vehicle park, campground
   
153.099   Sexually oriented business and adult media stores
   
153.100   Short term rentals
   
153.101   Temporary indoor and outdoor uses
   
153.102   Wind power
   
153.103   Wireless communication facilities
Site Plan Review
   
153.110   Intent
   
153.111   Scope
   
153.112   Application procedure
   
153.113   Action on application and plans
   
153.114   Criteria for review
   
153.115   Utilities
   
153.116   Amendment to site plan
   
153.117   Performance bond
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.120   Establishment
   
153.121   Membership
   
153.122   Terms of office
   
153.123   Board of Appeals procedures
   
153.124   Appeals, method for taking
   
153.125   Decisions
   
153.126   Duties
   
153.127   Limitations
Administration
   
153.130   Savings clause
   
153.131   Validity and severability
   
153.132   Effective date
   
153.133   Administrative officials
   
153.134   Occupancy
   
153.135   Violations and enforcement
   
153.136   People involved in the zoning process
   
153.137   Administrative processes
   
153.138   Amendment
SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village of Sebewaing
Zoning Chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and restrict the location and use
of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, and for
public and semipublic or other specified uses; to regulate and limit the height
and bulk of buildings and other structures; to regulate and to determine the
size of yards, courts, and open spaces; to regulate and limit the density of
population; and for those purposes, to divide the village into districts and to
establish the boundaries thereof, providing for changes in the regulations,
restrictions, and boundaries of the districts; defining certain terms used
herein; providing for enforcement; establishing a Zoning Board of Appeals; and
for imposing penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.003 INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
except those specifically repealed by this chapter or of any private
restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed, or other private
agreement. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon the heights of buildings or lot coverage or
requires greater lot areas, or larger yards, courts, or other open spaces than
are imposed or required by such existing provisions of law or ordinance, or by
such rules, regulations or permits, or by such private restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Village of Sebewaing, Huron County, Michigan pursuant to the authority
vested in it by P.A.110 of 2006, as amended, the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
and for the purpose of promoting and protecting the public health, safety,
peace, morals, comfort and convenience of the residential, commercial,
industrial and other use areas by securing the most appropriate use of land;
preventing overcrowding of land and undue congestion of population; providing
adequate light, air, transportation, water, sewers, schools, recreation, and
other public requirements, and by other means, all in accordance with a Master
Plan, the village enacts the following regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.004 PRIOR REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The adoption of this chapter does not nullify or make void any previous
judgments and agreements between the village and a property owner or agent
under any zoning ordinance in effect before the adoption of this chapter, nor
does it nullify the requirements and standards that were applied in any
particular instance under a zoning ordinance in effect before the adoption of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.005 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be necessary for the
preservation of the peace, health, safety, and welfare of the Village of
Sebewaing residents and shall be effective 30 days after adoption and
publication in the manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.010 GENERAL.
   All words used in the present tense shall include the future; all words in
the singular number include the plural number, and all words in the plural
number include the singular number; the word building includes the word
structure, and dwelling includes residence; the word person includes
corporation, co-partnership, and association, as well as individual; the word
shall is mandatory and not discretionary. Terms not herein defined shall have
the meaning customarily assigned to them.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.011 SPECIFIC TERMS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The cessation of a permitted activity in, or a permitted use
of, a dwelling structure, or lot, other than that which would typically occur
on a seasonal basis, and has fallen into disrepair or is neglected in some way
for a period of six months or longer.
   ABOVE GROUND LEVEL (AGL). A measurement of height from the natural grade of
a site to the highest point of a structure.
   ABUTTING. Having property or district lines in common, e.g., two lots are
abutting if they have property lines in common.
   ACCESS.  A way of approaching or entering a property. For purposes of this
chapter, all lots of record shall have access to a public street or highway.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any unattached subordinate
building or structure, such as a private garage, which is incidental to that of
the main building, located on the same lot as the main building, or any portion
of the main building if that portion is occupied or devoted exclusively to an
accessory use.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
premises' primary use but does not include residential occupation. These may
include but are not limited to private garages, permanent storage sheds,
playhouses, decks, porches, and carports.
   ACRE. A measure of land area containing 43,560 square feet.
   ADDITION. A structure added to the original structure at some time after the
completion of the original.
   ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS. Those property owners or residents bordering,
abutting a corner, or across the street from the subject property.
   ADJOINING LOT OR LAND. A lot or parcel of land that shares all or part of a
common lot line with another lot or parcel of land.
   ADULT MEDIA. Magazines, books, slides, CD-ROMs, or devices used to record
computer images, or other media that are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to sexually
oriented hard-core material.
   ADULT MEDIA STORE. An establishment that rents and/or sells media and meets
any of the following three tests:   
      (1)   Forty percent (40%) or more of the gross public floor area is
devoted to adult media.
      (2)   Forty percent (40%) or more of the stock in trade consists of adult
media.
      (3)   It advertises or holds itself out in any form as "XXX," "adult,"
"sex," or otherwise as a sexually oriented business other than adult media
store, adult motion picture theater, or adult cabaret.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An establishment emphasizing or predominately
showing sexually oriented movies.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock, or other horticultural products and
is clearly incidental to agricultural activity, excluding the business of
retail trade.
   AGRICULTURAL STORAGE, TERMINALS, AND PROCESSING FACILITIES. A building,
facility, area, open or enclosed, or any location for the refinement,
treatment, or conversion of agricultural products where physical, chemical, or
similar change of an agricultural product occurs. Examples of agricultural
processing include but are not limited to fruit dehydrators, cold storage
houses, hulling operations, and the sorting, cleaning, packing, and storing of
agricultural products preparatory to sale and/or shipment in their natural
form, including all uses customarily incidental thereto.
   AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY ACTIVITIES. The employment of land for the primary
purpose of obtaining a profit in money by raising, harvesting, and selling
crops, or feeding (including grazing), breeding, managing, selling, or
producing livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals, or honeybees, or by dairying
and the sale of dairy products, by any other horticultural, floricultural or
viticultural use, by animal husbandry, or by any combination thereof. It also
includes the current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit by stabling or training equines, including, but not limited to,
providing riding lessons, training clinics, and schooling shows. The growing or
harvesting of forest tree species trees used for commercial or related
purposes.
   AISLE.  The traveled way by which cars enter and depart parking places.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way with a street base affording a secondary
means of vehicular access to abutting property and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition, or modification in construction, type of
occupancy, any change in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as altered or reconstructed.
   AMENITY. A natural or artificial feature that enhances or makes a particular
property more attractive or satisfying.
   ANIMAL (SMALL). Any animal, including rabbits and chickens, weighing 20
pounds or less, except pet animals, unusual animals, or other fowl.
   ANIMAL (LARGE). Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, beasts of burden, or
any other domesticated or wild animal weighing more than 20 pounds except pet
animals, unusual animals, or fowl.
   ANIMAL UNIT. See the Michigan Generally Accepted Agricultural Management
Practices, Michigan Right to Farm Act.
   ANIMAL (WILD OR EXOTIC). Animals that are wild by nature and not customarily
domesticated. This definition does not include birds, small rodents, or small,
nonpoisonous reptiles commonly used for educational or experimental purposes,
or as pets.
   ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. See the Michigan Generally Accepted Agricultural Management
Practices, Michigan Right to Farm Act.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. See KENNEL.
   ANTENNA.  The surface from which wireless radio signals are sent and
received by a personal wireless facility.
   APPEAL. The process, as prescribed in this chapter, for contesting a zoning
interpretation made by the Zoning Administrator or decision made by the
Planning Commission.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity submitting an application for review and
action by the village or any of its departments or commissions.
   APPROVED PLAN. A plan that has been granted final approval by the
appropriate approving authority.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The agency, board, group, or other legally designated
individual or authority that has been charged with review and approval of plans
and applications.
   AREA. See LOT AREA.
   ASSEMBLY BUILDING.  A building for the primary purpose of group gatherings
of 50 people or more for any purpose.
   ATTACHED. Any structure or part of a structure immediately adjacent to
another structure or part of a structure and fastened securely to it.
   ATTIC. That part of a building that is immediately above the ceiling beams
of the top story and wholly or partly within the roof framing.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.  General repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding, or
reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service such as body, frame, or
fender straightening and repair; overall painting, but not including
undercoating of automobiles unless provided in a completely enclosed spray
booth or building.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline or any other automobile
engine fuel (stored only in underground tanks) kerosene or motor oil and
lubricants or grease (for the operation of motor vehicles) are retailed
directly to the public on the premises, including the sale of minor accessories
and services for motor vehicles (including minor repairs).
   BAR. A building or portion thereof where liquors are sold to be consumed on
the premises, but not including restaurants where the principal business is
serving food.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade,
but so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor is greater
than the vertical distance from the grade to ceiling. A BASEMENT will not be
counted as a story. See Huron County adopted building code.
   BEDROOM. Means a separate room or space with a door, a closet, and a window,
used or intended to be used specifically for sleeping purposes.
   BERM. An earthen mound of definite height and location designed to serve as
an obscuring device in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   BOARD OF APPEALS.  See ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   BODY PIERCING PARLOR. See TATTOO/BODY PIERCING PARLOR.
   BODY SHOP. See VEHICLE REPAIR.
   BUFFER. Open space, landscaped areas, fences, walls, berms, or any
combination thereof to physically separate or screen one use or property from
another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, or other nuisances. A
greenbelt is considered a buffer.
   BUILDABLE AREA.  The space remaining on a lot or lots of record after the
minimum setback and open space requirements have been met.
   BUILDING. A structure erected on-site, a manufactured home, a mobile home or
mobile structure, or a premanufactured or precut structure that is above or
below ground and is designed primarily for the use or intended use of shelter,
support, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind. Any
structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof and used or built for
the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.
This shall include tents, awnings or vehicles situated on private property and
used for purposes of a building.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The horizontal area measured within exterior walls of the
ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings on a lot.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. Building department shall mean the Huron County
Planning, Building and Zoning Department or their contractors who perform
enforcement of building codes unless the specific use or the context indicates
a different reference.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established grade
to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of
mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building and for purposes of
this chapter, a BUILDING LINE is the same as a front setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1406.png]
 
   Figure 1 - Building Line
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. Village staff appointed by the Village President and
licensed pursuant to the State of Michigan's regulation to enforce and
administer the Huron County's adopted building code.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  A permit signifying compliance with the provisions of this
chapter as to use, activity, bulk, density, and with the requirements of all
other development codes and ordinances currently in effect in the Village of
Sebewaing.
   BUILDING SUPPLY, WAREHOUSES, WHOLESALE.  A building primarily used for the
storage of goods and materials.
   BUSINESS CENTER.  A business center is more than one business on the same
parcel.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in rendering services to
business establishments for a fee or on a contract basis, such as advertising
and mailing, building maintenance, employment services, management and
consulting services, protective services, equipment rental and leasing,
commercial research, development and testing, photo finishing, and personal
supply services.
   CANOPY.  A roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a building for the
purpose of shielding a doorway or window from the elements.
   CARPORT. A roofed accessory structure used primarily to shelter private
motor vehicles. A carport is attached to the principal or accessory structure
and is completely open on not less than two sides.
   CAR WASH.  A structure containing facilities for washing automobiles using a
chain conveyor or other method of moving the cars along, or machinery that
moves around a stationary vehicle, and automatic or semiautomatic application
of cleaner, brushes, rinse water, and heat for drying.
   CARRIER. A company that provides wireless service.
   CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT.  See DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT/FAST FOOD.
   CELLULAR TOWER.  See WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY.
   CEMETERY. Any publicly or privately owned place for the interment of human
remains.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A document issued by the Building Official and
Zoning Administrator allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying
the structure or use has been constructed and/or will be used in compliance
with all applicable municipal codes and ordinances and approved plans and
specifications.
   CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.  A facility for the care of children under 18 years
of age, as licensed and regulated by the State under Act No. 116 of Public Acts
of 1973 and the associated rules promulgated by the State Department of Social
Services. Such organizations shall be further defined as follows:
      (1)   CHILD CARE CENTER or DAY CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a
private residence, receiving more than six preschool or school-age children for
group care for periods of less than 24 hours a day, and where the parents or
guardians are not immediately available to the child. It includes a facility
that provides care for not less than two consecutive weeks, regardless of the
number of hours of care per day. The facility is generally described as a
childcare center, daycare center, day nursery, nursery school, parent
cooperative preschool, pay group, or drop-in center. CHILD CARE CENTER or DAY
CARE CENTER does not include a Sunday school conducted by a religious
institution or a facility operated by a religious organization where children
are cared for during short periods of time while persons responsible for such
children are attending religious services.
      (2)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A private home in which one but not more than
four minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the household by
blood, marriage, or adoption, are given care and supervision for 24 hours a
day, for four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home in which more than four
but less than seven children, who are not related to an adult member of the
household by blood, marriage, or adoption, are provided care for 24 hours a
day, for four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      (4)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which one but less than
seven minor children are received for care and supervision for periods of less
than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. It
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more than four weeks
during a calendar year.
      (5)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which more than six but not
more than 12 children are given care and supervision for periods of less than
24 hours a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. It
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more than four weeks
during a calendar year.
   CHURCHES/SYNAGOGUES/MOSQUES.  See INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS.
   CIRCULATION PATTERN.  Systems, structures, and physical improvements for the
movement of people, goods, water, air, sewage, or power by such means as
streets, highways, railways, waterways, towers, airways, pipes, and conduits;
and the handling of people and goods by such means as terminals, stations,
warehouses, and other storage buildings or shipment points.
   CLEAR VISION. An area 30 feet along each street at its intersection with
another street, drive, or alley where no visual obstruction of sight may exist
above thirty-six (36") inches from established street grades.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1408.png]
 
   CLUBHOUSE.  A building to house a club or social organization not conducted
for private profit, as documented by state or federal records, and is not an
adjunct to or operated by or in connection with a public tavern, café, or other
public place.
   CLUB/LODGE. See INSTITUTION, SOCIAL.
   CLUSTER.  A development design technique that concentrates buildings in
specific areas on a site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation,
common open space, and preservation of environmentally sensitive features.
   CO-LOCATION. The use of a single mount on the ground by more than one
telecommunications carrier (vertical co-location) and/or several mounts on an
existing building or structure by more than one carrier.
   COMMERCIAL. A term relating to the use of property in connection with the
purchase, sale, or trading of goods for personal services or maintenance of
service offices or recreation or amusement enterprise or garage/basement/porch
sales lasting more than 14 days during any 12 month period. (See also MALL).
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Establishments with the primary purpose of providing
amusement or entertainment for a fee or admission charge, and including such
activities as dance halls, studios, bowling alleys and billiard and pool
establishments, commercial sports such as arenas, rings, racetracks, golf
courses, amusement parks, carnival operations, exposition, game parlors, and
swimming pools.
   COMMERCIAL SCHOOL. A school or facility offering training to perform any of
the uses by right in the district in which a commercial school is permitted
either by right or by special use permit. A commercial school is a distinct
use, not to be confused with an INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL.
   COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the Village of Sebewaing.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE.  Common open space shall mean land within a planned unit
development, under the common ownership of all occupants in the planned unit
development, to be used for park, recreation, or environmental amenity. These
lands shall not include public or private streets, driveways, or parking areas.
Within these lands, only facilities and structures for recreational purposes
may be constructed, with the total impervious area of roofs and paving
constituting not more than 10% of the total open space.
   CONDOMINIUM. See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   CONTIGUOUS.  Next to, abutting, or touching and having a common boundary or
portion thereof, that is co-terminus.
   CONTRACTOR.  General contractors and builders engaged in the construction of
buildings, either residences or commercial structures, as well as heavy
construction contractors engaged in activities such as paving, highway
construction, and utility construction.
   CONTRACTOR, LANDSCAPE. Landscaping includes businesses principally engaged
in lawn mowing and yard maintenance. It also includes decorative and functional
alteration, planting, and maintenance of such grounds. Such a business may
engage in the installation and construction of underground improvements but
only to the extent that such improvements (e.g., drainage/irrigation
facilities) are accessible and on the same parcel as the principal use.
Landscape contractor also includes businesses that apply fertilizers,
pesticides, and other treatments for plants, trees, and grass. This definition
also includes tree services and commercial plant maintenance services.
   CONTRACTOR'S STORAGE YARD. An unenclosed portion of the lot or parcel upon
which a construction contractor maintains its principal office or a permanent
business office. Designation of the lot or parcel as a contractor's storage
yard would allow this area to be used to store and maintain construction
equipment and other materials customarily used in the trade carried on by a
construction contractor. If permitted to be used in this manner, the entire lot
or parcel would then be classified as a CONTRACTOR’S STORAGE YARD and will be
required to conform to all applicable zoning district standards and other
legislative regulations.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT.
   COTTAGE INDUSTRY.  An establishment primarily engaged in the on-site
production of goods by hand manufacturing, which involves only the use of hand
tools or which have a limited impact on adjoining development by virtue of
either low development densities or more stringent review and standards.
Examples of cottage industries include: mail-order businesses, custom
manufacturing, or light automotive and equipment repair.
   COUNTY. County shall mean Huron County unless the specific use or the
context indicates a different reference.
   COURT. An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings
and which is bounded on two or more sides by those building or buildings. A
COURT shall be unoccupied.
   COVERAGE. See LOT COVERAGE.
   CROSS-POLARIZED. A low mount dual-polarized antenna that has three panels
flush mounted or attached very close to the shaft.
   CUL DE SAC. See STREET, CUL DE SAC.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  See Michigan Compiled Laws, M.C.L. § 125.539.
   DAYCARE FACILITY. See CHILD CARE CENTER.
   DAY NURSERIES. See CHILD CARE CENTER.
   DECK. A horizontal structure of a single elevation or varying elevations,
commonly used as a floor attached or adjacent to the main building. A deck may
be open or partially or completely covered by a roof and wall structure.
   DENSITY. The intensity of development in any given area, measured in this
chapter by the number of dwelling units per acre.
      (1)   HIGH RESIDENTIAL. Fifteen (15) or more dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   LOW RESIDENTIAL. Fewer than five dwelling units per acre.
      (3)   MEDIUM RESIDENTIAL. Five to 15 dwelling units per acre.
   DEVELOPMENT.  The construction of a new building or other structure on a
zoning lot, the relocation of an existing building on another zoning lot, or
the use of open land for a new use.
   DISH SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAE. Also referred to as EARTH STATIONS
or GROUND STATIONS shall mean one, or a combination of two or more of the
following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna, or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in Earth orbit and other extra-terrestrial sources.
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) that is situated at the focal point of
the receiving component, and the purpose of which is to magnify, store,
transfer and/or transmit electronic or light signals.
      (3)   A coaxial cable, the purpose of which is to carry or transmit said
signals to a receiver.
   DISTRIBUTION CENTER. A use where goods are received and/or stored for
delivery to the ultimate customer at remote locations.
   DISTRICT. See ZONE.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that it's retail or service
character is dependent upon providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than
within a building or structure.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT/FAST FOOD. A restaurant developed so it's retail, or
service character is primarily dependent on providing a driveway approach or
parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor
vehicle or to permit patrons to eat while in the motor vehicle, as well as
within a building or structure, or primarily to provide self-service for
patrons and food carry-out. Any establishment whose principal business is the
sale of foods, frozen desserts, or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building or for
carry-out with the consumption off the premises, and whose design or principal
method of operation includes one or both of the following:
      (1)   Food, frozen desserts, or beverages usually served in edible
containers or paper, plastic, or other disposable containers;
      (2)   More than 45% percent of the available floor space devoted to food
preparation, related activities, and other floor space not available to the
public.
   DUMPSTER.  A container capable of holding a volume of material greater than
two cubic yards and used for the purpose of collecting garbage, solid or liquid
waste, or refuse of any type.
   DWELLING.  Any building or portion thereof used exclusively for residential
purposes with one or more habitable rooms occupied or intended for occupancy
with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, and/or eating. A dwelling is
classified as one of the following:
      (1)   SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing not more than one
dwelling unit designed for residential use.
      (2)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING (DUPLEX). A building containing no more than
two separate dwelling units designed for residential use, including townhouses/
rowhouses, stacked flats, and other designs.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing three or more
dwelling units designed for residential use, including townhouses/rowhouses,
stacked flats, and other designs.
      (4)   GROUP DWELLINGS (CONGREGATE LIVING).  A building or group of
buildings, designed and used for residential habitation where joint and/or
separate sleeping rooms share common living, kitchen, eating and bathroom
facilities, housing persons unrelated by blood or marriage.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, providing complete
housekeeping facilities for one family.
   EASEMENT. Any private or dedicated public way other than a street or alley,
providing a secondary means of access to a property.
   EAVE. The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a
building.
   EGRESS (EXIT). An exit from a building or site.
   ELDERLY HOUSING. See SENIOR HOUSING.
   ELEVATION, TOPOGRAPHIC. The measurement of height above sea level.
   ELEVATION, VIEW. An architectural or engineered rendering of each side of a
building for purposes of site plan review.
   EMISSION. A discharge into the air or water.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA. An area with one or more of the following
characteristics:
      (1)   Slopes in excess of 20%.
      (2)   Floodplain.
      (3)   Soils classified as having a high-water table.
      (4)   Soils classified as highly erodible, subject to erosion, or highly
acidic.
      (5)   Land incapable of meeting percolation requirements.
      (6)   Land formerly used for landfill operations or hazardous industrial
uses.
      (7)   Fault areas.
      (8)   Stream corridors.
      (9)   Estuaries.
      (10)   Aquifer recharge and discharge areas.
   EQUIPMENT RENTAL/SALES. A business that provides construction, household,
and other similar equipment for rent to the general public or contractors for a
limited period of time. Used equipment and a limited proportion (up to 10%) of
new items in the business's inventory may be advertised for sale.
   EQUIPMENT SHELTER. An enclosed structure, cabinet, shed, or box at the base
of the mount within, which are housed batteries and electrical equipment.
   ERECTED. Includes built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon, or
any physical alteration to a piece of land, including excavation, moving, and
filling of earth.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by the action
of wind, water, gravity, or a combination thereof.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground,
surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles, and other
similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary
for the furnishing of adequate service by public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions or for public health or safety or general welfare,
but not including buildings other than those buildings as are primarily
enclosures or shelters of the above ESSENTIAL SERVICE equipment.
   ESTABLISHMENT. An economic unit, generally at a single physical location,
where business is conducted, or services or industrial operations are
performed.
   EXCAVATION. The removal of rock, sand, soil, or fill material below the
average grade of the surrounding land and/or road grade, whichever is highest,
this does not include alterations for farming or gardening purposes.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. See ANIMAL, WILD OR EXOTIC.
   FALL ZONE. The area on the ground within a prescribed radius from the base
of a personal wireless facility. The fall zone is the area within which there
is a potential hazard from falling debris (such as ice) or collapsing material.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, customarily living together as a single housekeeping
unit in a dwelling unit as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club,
religious or institutional building, boarding or lodging house, or fraternity
or sorority house.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
   FARM. A parcel of land used for the primary purpose of agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture or viticulture, including facilities for the sale of
produce, wine, and dairy products. The land, plants, animals, buildings,
structures, including ponds used for agricultural or aquacultural activities,
machinery, equipment, and other appurtenances used in the commercial production
of farm products. See detail of this definition in Michigan Right to Farm Act.
   FARM EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE. A business that provides farm and similar
equipment for rent or sale to the general public or contractors for a limited
period of time. Used equipment and a limited proportion (up to 10%) of new
items in the inventory of the business may be advertised for sale.
   FARMING FOR CASH CROPS, LIVESTOCK.  The use of land for tilling of the soil,
raising of tree or field crops, or animal husbandry, as a source of significant
income. See Generally Accepted Agricultural Management Practices (GAAMPs)
www.mda.state.mi.us/right2farm/farm.htm.
   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. See DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT/FAST FOOD.
   FENCE. A fence is an enclosing barrier, which is constructed or planted, in
whole or in part, for purposes of denoting a boundary line between parties or
to visually create a barrier between adjacent parcels. A fence is a privacy
fence, if it shall be so constructed or planted such that more than 50% of the
surface area, measured perpendicular to the sides, consists of material which
is solid or opaque.
   FIRE STATION. Public building devoted to the storage and housing of fire
equipment and personnel.
   FIREWORKS. Fireworks means a device made from explosive or flammable
compositions used primarily for the purpose of producing a visible display or
audible effect, or both, by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. Fireworks
include Class B fireworks and Class C fireworks.
      (1)   CLASS B FIREWORKS. These are toy torpedoes, railway torpedoes,
firecrackers or salutes that do not qualify as Class C fireworks, exhibition
display pieces, airplane flares, illuminating projectiles, incendiary
projectiles, incendiary grenades, smoke projectiles or bombs containing
expelling charges but without bursting charges, flash powders in inner units
not exceeding two ounces each, flash sheets in interior packages, flash powder
or spreader cartridges containing not more than 72 grains of flash powder each
and other similar devices.
      (2)   CLASS C FIREWORKS. These are toy smoke devices, toy caps containing
not more than 25 grains of explosive mixture, toy propellant devices, cigarette
loads, trick matches, trick noise makers, smoke candles, smoke pots, smoke
grenades, smoke signals, hand signal devices, signal cartridges, sparklers,
explosive auto alarms, and other similar devices.
      Should the definitions of these items change per the Michigan Penal Code,
1931 PA 328, as amended, the Village of Sebewaing Zoning Ordinance definitions
will change with the State law and must be interpreted as those contained in
the State law.
   FLEA MARKET. See OUTDOOR USE, TEMPORARY.
   FLOODPLAIN. The relatively flat area or lowlands adjoining the channel of a
watercourse or a body of standing water that has been or may be covered by
floodwater. Determination of a floodplain is made by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) for those areas to be covered by flood insurance and
consists of:
      (1)   Contiguous areas paralleling a river, stream or other body of water
that constitute at their maximum edge the highest flood levels experienced in a
period of 100 years.
      (2)   Principal estuary courses of wetland areas that are part of the
river flow system.
      (3)   Contiguous area paralleling a river stream or other body of water
that exhibits unstable soil conditions for development.
   FLOOR AREA. The area of all floors computed by measuring the dimensions of
the outside walls, excluding attic and basement floors, porches, patios,
breezeways, carports, and garages, or portions of rooms with less than seven
feet of space between the floor and ceiling.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1410.png]
 
   FLOOR AREA, USEABLE. That area of a nonresidential building used for or
intended to be used for the sale of merchandise or services. Such floor area
that is used for or intended to be used primarily for the storage or processing
of merchandise which may include hallways, breezeways, stairways, and elevator
shafts, or for utilities and sanitary facilities, shall be excluded from the
computation of useable floor area.
   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. See CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. See INSTITUTION, SOCIAL.
   FRONT LOT LINE.  In the case of an interior lot, the line separating the lot
from the street. In the case of a corner lot or double frontage lot, the line
separating the lot from that street which is designated as the front street in
the plat and the request for zoning compliance permit.
   FUNCTIONAL EQUIVALENT SERVICES. Cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), enhanced specialized mobile radio, specialized mobile radio and paging.
   FUNERAL HOME/MORTUARY. A building used for the storage and preparation of
the deceased for burial and display, and for ceremonies connected therewith
before burial or cremation.
   GARAGES. Includes the following:
      (1)   ATTACHED. An attached outbuilding customarily used for the storage
of vehicles and is attached to a residential dwelling as either an integral
part thereof, or, at a minimum, connected to the dwelling by a completely
enclosed breezeway.
      (2)   PRIVATE GARAGE.  A detached accessory building or portion of a main
building used for the storage of vehicles without provision for repair or
servicing such vehicles for profit.
      (3)   SERVICE GARAGE.  Any building or structure designed or used for the
hire, sale, storage, service, repair, or refinishing of motor vehicles or
trailers, but not for the storage of dismantled vehicles or parts thereof for
purposes of reuse or resale.
   GARAGE SALE.  See YARD SALE.
   GARBAGE. Animal, vegetable and mineral waste resulting from the handling,
storage, sale, preparation, cooking and serving food.
   GAS STATION/SERVICE STATION.  A place where gasoline, kerosene, or any other
motor fuel or lubricating oil or grease for operation of motor vehicles is
offered for sale to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor
vehicles, including sale of accessories, greasing, oiling, and light motor
service on the premises, but in no case to include automobile or truck
mechanical repair. Convenience food sales and/or fast food restaurants may also
be provided on the premises.
   GLARE.  The effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause annoyance,
discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land for playing golf, improved with trees, greens,
fairways, hazards, and which may include clubhouses or shelters.
      (1)   PITCH AND PUTT COURSE.  A facility providing a private or public
golf recreation area designed for executive play rules along with accessory
golf support facilities but excluding miniature golf.
      (2)   9-HOLE COURSE. A facility of nine regulation holes providing a
private or public golf recreation area designed for regulation play rules along
with accessory golf support facilities but excluding miniature golf.
      (3)   18-HOLE COURSE. A facility of 18 regulation holes providing a
private or public golf recreation area designed for regulation play rules along
with accessory golf support facilities but excluding miniature golf.
   GRADE. For purposes of this chapter, the level of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of a building or structure. In the case of lots with a sloping
terrain, the grade shall be the average elevation of the ground adjacent to the
walls.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, stockpiling, or any combination
thereof, and also included shall be the land in its excavated or filled
condition.
   GRADING PERMIT. The written authority issued by the Village of Sebewaing
permitting the grading, excavating or filling of land including drainage and
soil erosion control in conformity with the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
Chapter of this chapter and Public Act 451 of 1994.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1412.png]
 
   Figure 4 - Grade
   GRAIN AND SEED ELEVATORS.  A structure designed and constructed to house
hay, grain, or other horticultural products and is clearly incidental to
agricultural activity, excluding the business of retail trade.
   GREEN AREA.  Land shown on a development plan, master plan, or official map
for preservation, recreation, landscaping or a park.
   GREENBELT. See BUFFER.
   GREENHOUSE.  A temporary or permanent building whose roof and sides are made
largely of glass or other transparent or translucent material, and in which the
temperature and humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or
out-of-season plants for subsequent sale or personal enjoyment.
   GROUND COVER.  Grasses or other cultivated plants grown to keep soil from
being blown or washed away, not including weeds or other overgrown, unkempt
vegetation.
   GROUNDWATER RUNOFF.  Stormwater is discharged into a stream channel as
spring or seepage water.
   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. See CHILDCARE ORGANIZATION.
   GUYED TOWER. A monopole or lattice tower that is tied to the ground or other
surface by cables.
   HARDCORE MATERIAL. Media characterized by sexual activity that includes one
or more of the following: erect male organ; contact of the mouth of one person
with the genitals of another; penetration with a finger or male organ into any
orifice in another person; open female labia; penetration of a sex toy into an
orifice; male ejaculation; or the aftermath of male ejaculation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any materials being declared to be hazardous by any
agency of the State of Michigan or of the United States, including but not
limited to toxic materials and metal hydroxides.
   HEALTH CARE (SERVICES) FACILITIES. See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
   HEAVY VEHICLE, EQUIPMENT REPAIR, AND SALES.  See FARM EQUIPMENT SALES AND
SERVICE.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING.  The vertical distance, measured from the adjoining curb
level, to the highest point of the roof of the top story in the case of a flat
roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between
eaves and ridge of a gable, hip, or gambrel roof. However, where buildings are
set back from the street line, the height of the building may be measured from
the average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1414.png]
   Figure 5 - Building Height
   HIGH-INTENSITY FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, processing or canning and
packaging of food products.
   HIGHWAY. A public thoroughfare or street, excluding alleys, but including
federal, state and county roads and those appearing upon plats recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and accepted for public maintenance.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Historic structures are buildings and monuments, dams,
millraces and canals, nautical vessels, bridges, tunnels and roads, railroad
locomotives, rolling stock and track, stockades and fences, defensive works,
temple mounds and kivas, ruins of all structural types, and outdoor sculpture.
These structures must be at least 100 years in age.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. An association of all owners of a project organized
for the purpose of administering, managing, and maintaining the common property
and facilities. This Association shall be described in all covenants, deeds, or
other recorded legal documents which affect the title to any land within the
development.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Examples of home occupations include short-term rentals,
personal services, professional services and small item repair, among others
but may include any business carried on by one or more members of a family
residing on the premises, provided that:
      (1)   The majority of activities are carried on indoors.
      (2)   It does not have a separate entrance from outside the building.
      (3)   It does not display or create outside the structure any external
evidence of the operation of the home occupation, including additional traffic,
except for one unanimated, unilluminated wall sign having an area of not more
than two square feet.
      (4)   It does not employ any persons other than family members residing
on the premises.
      (5)   The hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
   HORTICULTURE. The cultivation of a garden or orchard. Horticulture
specifically excludes operation of a landscaping business.
   HOSPITAL, See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
   HOTEL. See MOTEL.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that reduces and prevents the absorption of
stormwater into previously undeveloped land.
   INCINERATOR.  A device used to burn waste substances and in which all the
combustion factors, temperature, retention, time, turbulence and combustion air
can be controlled.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK.  A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land with
two or more separate industrial buildings. Such development is planned,
designed, constructed, and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis with
special attention given to on-site vehicular circulation, parking, utility
needs, building design, orientation, and open space.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. Facilities and services needed to sustain industrial,
residential and business activities.
   INGRESS. Access or entry.
   INSTITUTION, CULTURAL.  See MUSEUM, LIBRARY, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
   INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL. A school for kindergarten through twelfth grade or
any colleges or universities authorized by the state to award degrees.
   INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE. A public or private facility for physical, as
opposed to mental, care. A human care institution may include hospitals,
convalescent, assisted care facilities and nursing homes. It does not include
state licensed residential facilities for six or fewer people in one facility
or home, or substance abuse rehabilitation facilities.
   INSTITUTION, REHABILITATION. A public or private facility for mental or
substance abuse rehabilitation. A rehabilitation institution may include
inpatient or outpatient hospitals, halfway houses, and similar facilities.
   INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS. A structure or place in which worship, ceremonies,
rituals and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are held.
   INSTITUTION, SOCIAL.  Any profit or nonprofit use or facility in which
activities for pleasure or philanthropy are carried out. Such institutions may
include service clubs, scout organizations, hobby clubs and veteran's
organizations, churches, schools, hospitals, convalescent or nursing homes,
public or quasi-public non-profit uses, community facilities, retreats, parks
and playgrounds.
   INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS.  See the Michigan Generally Accepted
Agricultural Management Practices (GAAMPs).
   INTERSECTION. The point where two or more roads cross at grade.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE/BOAT.  An automobile, truck, or other motor vehicle or
boat which has been damaged to such an extent that it cannot be operated under
its own power, and will require major repairs before being made usable; or such
a vehicle which does not comply with state or county laws or ordinances.
   JUNK/SALVAGE YARD.  A place where waste or discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled, cleaned, or
handled, including house and vehicle wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and
places or yards for use of salvaged house and vehicle parts, and structural
steel materials and equipment. A junk or salvage yard shall not include uses
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building; pawn shops and
establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used cars in operable
condition, salvaged machinery, used furniture, and household equipment; and the
processing of used, discarded, or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing
operations.
   KENNEL or ANIMAL HOSPITAL.  Any building or land used for the sale, keeping,
boarding, treatment, or breeding of more than four dogs or three cats or other
household pets as a business.
   LABORATORY:
      (1)   Medical or dental. A laboratory that provides analytical or
diagnostic services to physicians and dentists. No fabrication is conducted on
the premises except the custom fabrication of dentures or surgical supports.
      (2)   Experimental.  A building or part of a building devoted to the
testing and analysis of any product or animal.
   LAND. Ground, soil, or earth, including structures on, above, or below the
surface.
   LAND USE.  A use of land which may result in an earth change, including, but
not limited to, subdivision, residential, commercial, industrial, recreational,
or other development, private and public highway, road and street construction,
drainage construction, agricultural practices and mining.
   LAND USE PLAN.  A plan showing the existing and proposed location, extent
and intensity of development of land to be used for varying types of
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, educational,
and other public and private purposes or combination of purposes.
   LARGE SCALE PRIMARY METAL INDUSTRIES. See MANUFACTURING.
   LATTICE TOWER.  A type of mount that is self-supporting with multiple legs
and cross bracing of structural steel.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY.  The Village of Sebewaing Council.
   LIBRARY.  Institutions for the storage and circulation of books, compact
discs, videotapes and other materials for use by the general public.
   LICENSED CARRIER.  A company authorized by the FCC to construct and operate
a commercial mobile radio services system.
   LIVESTOCK AUCTION AND PRODUCTION YARDS.  See the Michigan Generally Accepted
Agricultural Management Practices, Michigan Right to Farm Act.
   LOADING SPACE.  An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or
group of buildings, for temporary parking of commercial vehicles while loading
and unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT.  A lot is the parcel of land upon which the principal building,
including any accessories are placed together with the required yards of open
space, the legal description of which is on file at the Register of Deeds. A
lot is not limited to a recorded subdivision plat.
   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area included within lot lines. Where the
front lot line is the centerline of a street or lies in part or in whole in the
street area, the lot area shall not include that part of the lot in use or to
be used as the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1418.png]
 
   Figure 6 - Lot Type
   LOT, CORNER. Any lot having at least two contiguous sides abutting upon a
street, provided the interior angle of the intersection of the two sides is
less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a curved street or streets shall be
considered a corner lot if the tangents to the curve, at its points of
beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side lines
with the street line, intersect at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
The outside yard shall be the side yard adjacent to the street.
   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1416.png]
 
   Figure 7 - Lot Information
   LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance from the front street line to the
rear lot line.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot not fronting entirely on or abutting a public road and
where access to the road is a narrow, private right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot. See graphic for corner lot.
   LOT LINES. Any line bounding a lot, including the following:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. The line separating the lot from the right-of-way
of the street; in the case of a corner line, the address of record is the front
lot line.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE.  The line opposite to and most distant from the
front line; in irregularly shaped lots, it shall be the straight line entirely
within the lot, ten feet long, parallel to and most distant from the front lot
line.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any line other than front or rear lot lines.
   LOT, THROUGH.  Is any interior lot having frontage on two more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all sides of said lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required. See graphic
for corner lot.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the County Register of Deeds or in common use by
village officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any part of such
parcel held in separate recorded ownership at the time of adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The lot width shall be considered the average of the width
between side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1420.png]
 
   Figure 8 - Lot Width
   LOT, ZONING. A single tract of land that, at the time of filing for a
building permit, is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be used,
developed, or built upon as a unit, under single ownership or control.
   LOUNGE. See BAR.
   LUMBERYARD. A commercial or wholesale facility where building materials are
sold and where lumber and other construction materials are warehoused within an
enclosed yard or building.
   MALL.  A shopping center where stores front on both sides of a pedestrian
way that may be enclosed or open.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A dwelling unit, designed and built in a factory.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT. A parcel of land under the control of a
person upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual non-
recreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose,
regardless whether a charge is made therefore, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
   MANUFACTURING.  The manufacture, predominantly from previously prepared
materials, of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication,
assembly, treatment and packaging of such products, and incidental storage,
sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial
processing and custom manufacturing. The manufacturing or compounding process
of raw materials. These activities or processes would necessitate the storage
of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive materials
needed for the manufacturing process. These activities may involve outdoor
operations as part of their manufacturing process.
   MARQUEE. Any hood, canopy, awning, or permanent structure that projects from
a wall of a building, usually above an entrance.
   MASTER PLAN. A comprehensive long-range plan intended to guide the growth
and development of a community. The plan includes analysis, recommendations,
and proposals for the community's population, economy, housing, transportation,
community facilities and land use.
   MINISTORAGE/SELF STORAGE.  A structure containing separate storage areas of
varying sizes that are leased or rented on an individual basis.
   MIXED USE ZONING. Regulations that permit a combination of different uses
within a single development, under special regulations.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a chassis and designed for use as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation, constructed according to the standards promulgated by the
U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and which includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained in the
structure. A mobile home does not include a recreational vehicle. (Mobile Home
Commission Act.)
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person
upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual,
nonrecreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose
regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a mobile home. (Mobile Home Commission Act.)
   MOBILE HOME SITE/MANUFACTURED HOME SITE.  A measured parcel of land within a
manufactured home development that is delineated by lot lines on a final
development plan and is intended for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of the occupants of such mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home development except the mobile
home lots are subdivided, surveyed, recorded, and sold in accordance with
Michigan Act 288 of 1967, as amended.
   MONOPOLE.  The type of mount that is self-supporting with a single shaft of
wood, steel, or concrete, without guy wires, and a platform (or racks) for
panel antennae arrayed at the top.
   MORTUARY. See FUNERAL HOME.
   MOTEL.  A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connecting
units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units designed primarily for
transients traveling by automobile. The term MOTEL shall include buildings
designed as auto courts, tourist courts, motor hotels, hotels and similar names
that are designed as integrated units of individual rooms under common
ownership. For the purposes of this chapter, MOTEL and HOTEL have the same
meaning.
   MOUNT. The structure of surface upon which antennae are mounted, including
the following four types of mounts:
      (1)   Roof-mounted. Mounted on the roof of a building.
      (2)   Side-mounted. Mounted on the side of a building.
      (3)   Ground-mounted. Mounted on the ground.
      (4)   Structure-mounted. Mounted on a structure other than a building.
   MUNICIPAL BUILDING. A structure housing any operation of the village.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Sebewaing.
   MUSEUM. A building having public significance by reason of its architecture
or former use or occupancy or building serving as a repository for a collection
of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities or objects of interest, or
works of art, and arranged, intended, and designed to be used by members of the
public for viewing, with or without an admission charge, and which may include
as an accessory use the sale of goods to the public as gifts or for their own
use.
   NATURAL RETENTION AREA. A naturally occurring pond or wetland that retains
storm water runoff.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING, LEGAL. Any building or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the time this chapter became effective and does not comply with
this chapter's regulations.
   NONCONFORMING LOT, LEGAL. A lot, the area, dimensions or location of which
was lawful prior to the adoption, revisions, or amendment of the zoning code;
but which fails, by reason of such adoption, revisions, or amendment, to
conform to current requirements of the zoning district.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN, LEGAL. Any sign lawfully existing as of the effective
date of a chapter, or amendment thereto, that renders the sign nonconforming
because it does not conform to all the standards and regulations of the adopted
or amended chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE, LEGAL. Any property use that was lawful at the time the
zoning chapter became effective and which now does not comply with its
regulations. A legal nonconforming use is a use that is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization with federal tax status as a non-
profit.
   NORTH POINT or NORTH ARROW. The designation on a map illustrating the
direction of north.
   NOXIOUS. Offensive or disturbing.
   NUISANCE. An offensive, annoying, unpleasant, or obnoxious thing, or
practice, a cause or source of annoyance, especially a continual or repeated
invasion of a use or activity that invades the property line of another so as
to cause harm or discomfort to the owner or resident of that property.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS. Any lot or structure used for the growing,
harvesting, processing, storing, and/or selling of plants, shrubs, trees and
flowers, including products used for gardening and landscaping, but not
including fruit and vegetable sales.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT.  A required permit allowing occupancy of a building or
structure after it has been determined the building meets all of the
requirements of applicable chapters.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT, TEMPORARY.  A certificate of occupancy is issued for a
fixed time period to allow occupancy, because seasonal conditions make it
impossible to complete all needed external improvements.
   OCCUPIED. Includes arranged, designed, built, altered, converted to, rented
or leased or intended to be occupied.
   OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government.
   OFFICE BUILDING. A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry, government, or like activity; it may
include ancillary services for office workers such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand.
   OMNIDIRECTIONAL (WHIP) ANTENNA. A thin rod that beams and receives signals
in all directions.
   OPEN SPACE. Is that part of a zoning lot, including courts or yards, which:
      (1)   Is open and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky;
      (2)   Is accessible to all residents upon the zoning lot;
      (3)   Is not part of the roof of that portion of a building containing
dwelling units;
      (4)   Is comprised of lawn and landscaped area; and
      (5)   Is not part of the roof of an attached garage if said roof is used
for a swimming pool deck or recreation deck; and is not higher than 23 feet
above grade; and is directly accessible by passageway from the residential
building.
   ORCHARD:. The establishment, care, and harvesting of more than 25 fruit-
bearing trees or vines, such as apples, cherries, or grapes for the purpose of
selling the fruit to others.
   OUTDOOR AMUSEMENT FACILITY. A commercial business that provides amusement
facilities, such as miniature golf, carnival rides, petting zoo, and other
similar attractions and open to the general public.
   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY. These uses include outdoor amphitheaters, racetracks,
drive-in theaters and similar uses. These uses may also include special purpose
assembly such as music festivals, fairs and similar activity where there are
250 or more people in attendance at any one time.
   OUTDOOR SALES.  Uses not conducted from a wholly enclosed building, operated
for a profit, and including the following uses:
      (1)   Bicycle, mobile home, travel trailer, motor vehicle, boat or home
equipment sale or rental services.
      (2)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools, and similar
uses.
      (3)   Retail sale of trees, fruits, vegetables, shrubbery, plants, seed,
topsoil, humus, fertilizer, trellis, lawn furniture, playground equipment, and
other home garden supplies and equipment.
      (4)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
miniature golf, golf driving range, children's amusement park or similar
recreation uses.
   OUTDOOR USE. A use, the majority of which is carried outside of a structure
of any kind. These may include outdoor displays of merchandise, outdoor eating
areas, outdoor storage and outdoor recreation under certain circumstances.
   OUTDOOR USE, TEMPORARY.  A use carried out in an open area or uncovered or
temporary structure that is disbanded when the designated time period, activity
or use for which the temporary structure was erected has ceased.
   PANEL ANTENNA. A flat surface antenna usually developed in multiples.
   PARK, NEIGHBORHOOD.  Village or county owned land intended to serve the
recreation needs of people living or working within one-half mile radius of the
park. A neighborhood park is less than 2.5 acres in size.
   PARK, RECREATIONAL. An open area designed for the active and/or passive use
of the general public and which may or may not contain playground or exercise
facilities and equipment.
   PARKING AISLE. The area behind a parking space used for backing and turning
into and out of the parking space. See §§
153.050 through
153.055 for parking space and aisle required sizes.
   PARKING AREA. An area used for parking, parking aisle, or access of motor
vehicles for a fee or as an accommodation for clients, customers, residents,
employees or the general public.
   PARKING ACCESS. The area of a parking lot that allows motor vehicles ingress
and egress from the street to the parking aisle or parking space of no longer
than 100 feet.
   PARKING LOT. An off-street, ground level area, surfaced and improved, for
the temporary storage of motor vehicles.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. Any parking area located on the same property it is
intended to serve, or in a joint use lot.
   PARKING SPACE. Any vehicle accessible area designated for vehicle parking
and exclusive of drives and aisles.
   PATIO, PORCH. Roofed open area that, while it may be glassed or screened, is
usually attached to, or part of, and with direct access to or from a building.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. A set of criteria or limits relating to nuisance
elements (noise, odor, vibration, toxic and hazardous materials, radiation,
flooding, and other similar occurrences) that a particular use or process may
not exceed.
   PERMANENTLY AFFIXED. To affix a structure to the ground or to another
structure in accordance with the design and material specification of
applicable building codes.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, organization, association, trust or
corporation. When used as a penalty provision, PERSON shall include the members
of such partnership, the trustees of such trust, and the officers and members
of such organization, association or corporation.
   PERSONAL SERVICES FACILITIES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing
services involving the care of a person or their apparel.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE. The three types of services regulated by this
chapter as specified in the special use permit regulations. These services are
cellular, radio and satellite.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY. A facility for the provision of personal
wireless services, as defined by the Telecommunications Act.
   PETROLEUM BULK PLANT. An establishment for the purpose of storage of
petroleum products, in bulk or in packages, distributed by tank car, tank
vehicle, or motor truck.
   PETROLEUM REFINING AND CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING. An establishment for the
purpose of storage and refining of petroleum and chemical products.
   PLACEMAKING. Placemaking is a multi-faceted approach to the planning, design
and management of public spaces. Placemaking capitalizes on a local community's
assets, inspiration, and potential, with the intention of creating public
spaces that promote people's health, happiness, and well-being.
   PLAN, FINAL. A site plan that has been approved by the Planning Commission.
   PLAN, PRELIMINARY. A site plan that is under review by the Planning
Commission or proper review authority and indicates the proposed layout of the
subdivision, Planned Unit Development (PUD), or other development.
   PLAN, TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY. A conceptual site plan or sketch showing ideas
for development and site use.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).  A development, planned and developed as a
unit, under unified control, developed according to comprehensive and detailed
plans, including a program providing for the continual maintenance and
operation of such improvements, facilities, and services which will be for the
common use of the occupants of the planned unit development, not generally
including a shopping center or other commercial developments intended for
rental, but PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT includes cluster zoning, planned
development, community unit plan, planned residential development, and other
zoning requirements which are designed to accomplish the objective of a zoning
ordinance through a land development project review process based on the
application of site planning criteria to achieve integration of the proposed
land development project with the characteristics of the project area.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. Planning Commission shall mean the Village of Sebewaing
Planning Commission organized under P.A. 33 of 2008, as amended, the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, unless the specific use or the context indicates a
different reference.
   POND. A permanent or temporary body of man-made open water that is more than
0.25 acres in size and less than 1.0 acre in size.
   POOL, COMMERCIAL SWIMMING. An artificially constructed basin for holding
water for use by paying customers or patrons of a commercial facility.
   POOL, PRIVATE SWIMMING.  Any artificially constructed basin or other
structure for holding water for use in swimming, diving, and other aquatic
sports and recreation. The term SWIMMING POOL does not include any plastic,
canvas, or rubber pool temporarily erected upon the ground holding less than
500 gallons of water and not over 24 inches deep. SWIMMING POOL shall mean any
structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing that contains water
over 24 inches (610 mm) deep. This includes in-ground, aboveground and on-
ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
   POTABLE WATER. Water suitable for drinking or cooking purposes.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use
allowed of the lot in the district in which it is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary and predominate use of the premises including
customary accessory uses.
   PRIVATE. Not publicly owned or otherwise regulated by the State of Michigan
either by statute or by rules and regulations of one of its administrative
bodies.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Services offered to the general public such as law,
medicine, engineering, accounting, and architecture.
   PROCESSING. Any operation changing the nature of material or materials such
as the chemical composition, physical qualities, or size or shape. Does not
include operations described as fabrication or assembly.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Facilities that are owned and operated by a municipality,
government agency, or publicly owned utility.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open to
the public, with the public being given an opportunity to speak or participate.
   PUBLIC SERVICE INSTALLATION. A building, structure or use of land that
provides a service that is essential to the general public's convenience or
safety and is also defined as a PUBLIC UTILITY.
   PUBLIC UTILITY (PUBLIC SERVICE UTILITY). Any person, firm or corporation,
municipal department, board or commission duly authorized to furnish and
furnishing under state or municipal regulations to the public, gas, steam,
communication, telegraph, transportation, or water, sanitary sewer or storm
sewer.
   PUBLIC WAY. A highway, street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, alley or other
area specifically designated and continuously maintained for public access.
   QUASI PUBLIC AGENCY. A service owned and operated by a nonprofit, religious,
or missionary institution and providing educational, cultural, recreational, or
similar types of public programs.
   QUORUM. A simple majority of the full membership of a board or agency.
   RADIO ANTENNA. A signal-receiving device, the purpose of which is to receive
radio signals from radio transmitters in the area.
   RADIO TOWER. A signal-sending device, the purpose of which is to distribute
radio signals from a radio transmitter or transmitters in the area.
   RAISING AND KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK. See FARMING FOR CASH CROPS AND LIVESTOCK.
   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL INDOOR. A commercial recreational land use conducted
entirely within a building, including arcade, arena, art gallery and studio,
art center, assembly hall, athletics and health clubs, auditorium, bowling
alley, club or lounge, community center, conference center, exhibit hall,
gymnasium, library, movie theater, museum, performance theater, pool or
billiard hall, skating rink, swimming pool, and tennis court.
   RECREATION, OUTDOOR. Recreational uses conducted almost wholly outdoors,
including golf driving ranges (not associated with a golf course), miniature
golf, firing ranges, water parks, amusement parks, and similar uses.
   RECREATION, PRIVATE. Recreational, playgrounds and parks activities that are
not open to the general public and for which a fee may or may not be charged.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Includes travel trailers, pickup campers, motor
homes, ice fishing houses, tent trailers, tents, boats and boat trailers,
personal watercraft, snowmobiles, off-road vehicles of any kind, and similar
equipment and cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment,
whether occupied by the equipment or not.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed and used as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel purposes, including a
vehicle having its own motor power or a vehicle mounted on or drawn by another
vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK/CAMPGROUND. A parcel of land reserved for the
location of recreational vehicles, including building sites set aside for group
camping and similar recreational vehicles.
   RECYCLING FACILITY. The process by which waste products are reduced to raw
materials and transformed into new and often different products.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. See INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY. Any facility that is involved in the
inquiry, examination, investigation or experimentation aimed at the discovery
and/or interpretation of facts, revision of accepted theories or laws in the
light of new facts, or practical application of such new or revised theories of
laws and the development thereof. Development may include a limited number of
test units of a given product resulting from such research and shall include
limited production while a product is being test-marketed, which is the interim
step between full research and development and ultimate full-scale production.
   RESIDENCE. A home, abode, or place where an individual is residing at a
specific point in time.
   RESIDENTIAL, RESIDENTIAL USE, or RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The use of land
parcels for human habitation. RESIDENTIAL shall not be construed or interpreted
to mean the storage, sale (wholesale or retail), trade, transfer, fabrication,
production, manufacture, or development of goods and services.
   RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A fully enclosed building where waste is sorted
and classified by type and material, such as ferrous metal, nonferrous metal,
aluminum, paper, newsprint, boxed board, plastic and glass colors. The purpose
of such a building is to reuse the recovered materials.
   RESTRICTION. A limitation on property, which may be created in a deed,
lease, mortgage, or other appropriate document, through certain zoning or
subdivision regulations, or as a condition of approval of an application for
development.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. A restriction on the use of land usually set forth in
a deed or other appropriate document.
   RETAIL TRADE. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
   RESTAURANT. A business located in a building where, in consideration for the
payment of money, meals are habitually prepared, sold and served to persons for
consumption on or off the premises, having suitable kitchen facilities
connected therewith, containing conveniences for cooking an assortment of goods
that may be required for ordinary meals, and deriving the major portion of its
receipts from the sale of food and complying with state and federal health
regulations.
   RETREATS. See INSTITUTIONS, SOCIAL.
   RIDING STABLES. Any establishment where horses are kept for riding, driving,
or stabling for compensation or incidental to the operation of any club,
association, ranch, similar establishment or business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription, or condemnation, and intended to be occupied or
occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or
gas pipeline, waterline, sanitary storm sewer, or other similar uses.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The boundary of a dedicated street, highway, or strip of
land used or reserved for the placement or location of utilities and
facilities. See graphic for lot lines.
   RINGLEMANN CHART. A device to measure the opacity of smoke emitted from
stacks and other sources.
   ROAD FRONTAGE. The length of the lot line that borders a public or private
road at the right-of-way line.
   ROADSIDE STANDS. A booth or stall located on a farm from which produce and
farm products are sold to the general public.
   RUNOFF. The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water that flows
across ground surface and is eventually returned to streams.
   SALES AND SERVICE OF AGRICULTURAL MACHINES. See AUTO SALES AND SERVICE.
   SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste or discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packaged, disassembled, cleaned, or
handled, including house and vehicle wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and
places or yards for use of salvaged house and vehicle parts, and structural
steel materials and equipment. SALVAGE YARD shall not include uses conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building; pawn shops and establishments
for the sale, purchase, or storage of used cars in operable condition, salvaged
machinery, used furniture and household equipment; and the processing of used,
discarded or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
   SANITARY LANDFILL, SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATIONS. Any operation that is
licensed by the State of Michigan or its agencies as a sanitary landfill or is
subject to the requirement of having such a license.
   SAWMILL, LUMBERING. The cutting and storing of forest products and the
operation of portable sawmills and planers.
   SCALE.  The relationship between distances on a map and actual ground
distances.
   SCHOOL. See INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL.
   SCREENING. A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or
nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or densely
planted vegetation.
   SEASONAL BUSINESS. A retail business or service business that is not
normally used as a business for more than six months during any one calendar
year.
   SECURITY BARRIER. A locked, impenetrable wall, fence or berm that completely
seals an area from unauthorized entry or trespass.
   SENIOR HOUSING. A residential complex containing multiple family dwellings
designed for and principally occupied by senior citizens. Such facilities may
include a congregate meals program in a common dining area but exclude
institutional care such as medical or nursing care where patients are confined
to bed.
   SEPARATION. The distance between one carrier's array of antennae and another
carrier's array.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance measured from the front,
side or rear lot line, whichever is applicable, of a lot of record for purposes
of determining the minimum amount of open space surrounding the main structure
on that lot. See graphic for lot lines.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. A facility designed for the collection, removal,
treatment, and disposal of waterborne sewage generated within a given service
area.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An inclusive term used to describe collectively:
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater; adult media store; bathhouse;
massage shop; modeling studio and/or sex shop. This collective term does not
describe a specific land use and should not be considered a single-use
category.
   SHORT-TERM RENTALS. Any dwelling or condominium or portions thereof, in
which the owner does not reside, that is available for use or is used for
accommodations or lodging of guests, paying a fee or other compensation for a
period of less than 180 consecutive days.
   SIGNS:
      (1)   A name identification, description, display or illustration that is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
piece of land and is intended to direct attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business. However, a SIGN shall
not include a sign located completely within an enclosed building.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following sign or sign-related
terms are here defined:
         (a)   AREA, OR SURFACE AREA, OF SIGN. Measurement of a sign includes
the entire area within a circle, triangle, or parallelogram enclosing the
extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar
character, together with any frame or other material or color forming an
integral part of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the
background against which it is placed. This excludes the necessary supports or
uprights on which the sign is placed but includes any sign tower. Where a sign
has two or more faces, the area of all faces shall be included in determining
the area of the sign, except where two such faces are placed back-to-back and
are at no point more than two feet from one another, the area of the sign shall
be taken as the area of one face if the two faces are of equal area, or as the
area of the larger face if the two faces are of unequal area. In the case of a
sphere, the total area of the sphere shall be divided by four to determine the
maximum permitted sign area. The height of a sign shall be measured from the
average grade of the lot at the setback line. If a sign includes a numeric
address, the portion of the sign containing the address numbers shall not be
counted toward the total square footage of the sign.
         (b)   ABANDONED SIGN. If a sign advertises a business, service,
commodity, accommodation, attraction, or other enterprise or activity that is
no longer being offered or conducted at that site for a period of 14 days, that
sign shall be considered abandoned.
         (c)   BANNER. Either a temporary sign or portable sign, depending on
how it is used.
         (d)   CONSTRUCTION SIGNS. A temporary sign in place on a construction
site indicating a building and/or leasing activity.
         (e)   DIRECTIONAL SIGNS. Signs posted to show direction of traffic
flow through the property.
         (f)   ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign containing electric wiring. This does
not include signs illuminated by an exterior floodlight source.
         (g)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD.  Changeable copy/image signs in which
the copy/image consists of an array of lights activated and deactivated.
         (h)   FREESTANDING SIGNS. Signs that are supported from the ground by
a structure and are not attached to a building.
         Types:
            1.   Elevated sign. A sign elevated high above ground level,
typically on a pole or other structure.
            2.   Ground sign. A sign low to the ground and typically used to
identify large buildings, institutions and real estate developments.
         (i)   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign that provides artificial light directly
or through any transparent or translucent material.
         (j)   INTEGRAL SIGN.  Names of buildings or farm, date of erection,
monumental citations, commemorative tablets and the like when made an integral
part of the walls of the structure (or roof for farm buildings).
         (k)   JOINT SIGN. A sign that gives direction and identification to a
group of adjacent businesses whether or not under single management.
         (l)   LOCATION. A lot, premise, building, wall or any place whatsoever
upon which a sign is located.
         (m)   MARQUEE. An identification sign attached to or made a part of a
marquee, canopy, or awning projecting from and supported by the building.
         (n)   MERCHANDISING SIGNS. Signs identifying products or services
available at the establishment and their prices. This is a descriptive term.
Regulation depends on whether the sign is permanent, portable, temporary, a
sign cover or a safety concern.
         (o)   MONUMENT or GROUND MOUNTED. A freestanding sign where the base
of the sign structure is on the ground or integrated into landscaping or other
solid structural features other than support poles.
         (p)   MULTI-TENANT SIGNS. Wall, ground or freestanding signs for
unified developments, such as shopping centers and office parks, shall identify
only the development, individual tenants or establishments.
         (q)   NON-DWELLING USE SIGN.  A sign located on a parcel that does not
have a dwelling as its principal structure and is located in a residential
district. Examples of the uses that may be associated with non-dwellings in
these districts include but are not limited to subdivisions, schools, religious
institutions, historic structures, public buildings, cemeteries, agricultural
operations and agricultural retail facilities.
         (r)   POLITICAL SIGNS/POSTERS.  Signs intended for use in promoting
either a candidate for public office or proposal or similar issue that will be
placed before the public to vote.
         (s)   PORTABLE SIGNS.  Portable signs are those signs that are
designed to be transported. Examples of signs designed to be transported
include, but are not limited to, signs on a trailer or trailer frame and
designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs converted to "A" or "T"
frames that sit on the ground or lean against a permanent structure; menus and
sandwich board signs; balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising;
and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public
right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in normal day-to-day operation of the
business. Portable signs may be a printed banner, changeable copy or portable
LED messaging units. If a sign more accurately fits the definition of a
temporary sign, it shall not be considered portable for the purposes of this
chapter.
         (t)   REAL ESTATE SIGNS. Signs intended for temporary use in promoting
the sale of real estate, with or without structures.
         (u)   ROOF LINE.  This shall mean either the high point of the roof or
the top of the parapet, whichever forms the top line of the building silhouette
and where a building has several roof levels; this roof or parapet shall be the
one belonging to that portion of the building on whose wall the sign is
located.
         (v)   ROOF SIGNS. Signs placed on the roofs of buildings, supported by
the roof and within the lines of exterior walls. If a wall extends above a
roofline and supports a sign, it shall be considered a wall sign and not a roof
sign in this chapter.
         (w)   SETBACK.  A distance measured from the outer boundary of a
parcel in which erection of a sign is not permitted. A front setback is
measured from the edge of the right-of-way of any abutting roadway. A rear
setback is measured from the property line opposite the roadway. A side setback
is measured from any other abutting property line. Corner lots shall require
two front setbacks, but only one rear setback.
         (x)   SIGN. A name identification, description, display or
illustration that is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, structure or piece of land and is intended to direct attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. This includes changeable copy and LED (light-emitting diode) portable
signs. For this chapter, a national flag or official court or public office
notice is not considered a sign. A sign located inside of a window shall not be
regulated under this chapter.
         (y)   SIGN COVER. Signs are defined as SIGN COVER only when they are
located on permitted signs and cover up the content of the permitted sign. This
includes a display sign, banner or other advertising device, with or without a
structural frame, constructed of nondurable materials and intended for a
limited period of use.
         (z)   STREET BANNERS. Fabric signs suspended across public streets
advertising a public entertainment or event. The location and contents of each
street banner must be specially approved by the County of Tuscola.
         (aa)   SUBDIVISION SIGN.  A sign intended as identification for a
residential subdivision.
         (bb)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A display sign, banner or other advertising
device, with or without a structural frame, intended for a limited period of
use. Signs are defined as temporary when they are attached to a permanent
structure, including but not limited to a building, light pole, trees, bushes,
or fences. If a sign more accurately fits the definition of a portable sign, it
shall not be considered temporary for the purposes of this chapter.
         (cc)   WALL SIGNS. Signs permanently attached to the exterior wall of
a building and projecting out from such walls no more than 14 inches. The area
of the wall sign includes that area within a continuous line enclosing all
letters and graphic symbols of the sign.
         (dd)   WINDOW SIGNS.  Signs hung outside of a window and within the
framework of any window of a business or residence.
   SINGLE OWNERSHIP.  Ownership by one person or by two or more persons whether
jointly, as tenants by the entirety, or as tenants in common, of a separate
parcel of real property not adjacent to land in the same ownership.
   SITE. Any plot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM. See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   SITE PLAN. The development plan for one or more lots, on which is shown the
existing and proposed conditions of the lot.
   SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.  The submission of plans for review and
approval, as required by this chapter and special use permits.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE.  A facility for the slaughtering and processing of animals
and the refining of their by-products.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed as a percent or degrees.
   SOIL. All unconsolidated mineral and organic material, of whatever origin,
that overlies bedrock and can be readily excavated.
   SOIL RESOURCE EXTRACTION. All or any part of the process involved in the
mining of minerals by removing excess materials and mining directly from the
mineral deposits, open pit mining or minerals naturally exposed, mining by
auger method, dredging and quarrying, underground mining and surface work
incidental to an underground mine.
   SPECIAL LAND USE. A use, permitted within certain zoning districts, of such
a nature that the public has reserved the right to approve its exact location,
subject to conditions stated in this chapter and to any special conditions
imposed by the Planning Commission to protect the use by right of other
properties in the village.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA:
      (1)   Less than completely opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
      (2)   Human genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal or acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, or
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or
female breast.
   SPOT ZONING. Rezoning of a lot or parcel of land to benefit an owner for a
use incompatible with surrounding uses, and not for the purpose or effect of
furthering the objectives of the Village of Sebewaing Master Plan.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE. The length times width of a building, structure or use.
   STACKED FLATS. A type of rowhouse that is divided into two, two story units,
stacked on top of each other. Both units are accessible from the street with
garages accessible from an alley.
   STADIUM. A large open or enclosed place used for games and major events,
partly or completely surrounded by tiers of seats for spectators.
   STALL, PARKING. The parking space in which vehicles park.
   STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.  A private home licensed by the State
Department of Social Services for care of sick, elderly or handicapped adults.
A family home is defined as having one to six adults; a group home has seven to
20.
   STORAGE, BULK. The holding or stockpiling on land of material and/or
products where such storage constitutes 40% of the developed site area and the
storage area is at least one acre, and where at least three of the following
criteria are met by the storage activity:
      (1)   In a bulk form or in bulk containers;
      (2)    Under protectiv e cover to the essential exclusio n of other uses
of the same space due to special fixtures or exposure to the elements ;
      (3)    In sufficien t number, quantitie s, or spatial allocation of the
site to determine and rank such uses as the principal use of the site;
      (4)   The major function is the collection and/or distribution of the
material and/or products rather than processing; and
      (5)   The presence of fixed bulk containers or visible stockpiles for a
substantial period of a year.
   STORAGE, INDOOR. See WAREHOUSE.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR. See OUTDOOR USE.
   STORM SEWER. A conduit that collects and transports runoff of stormwater.
   STORMWATER DETENTION. Any storm drainage technique that retards or detains
runoff, such as a detention or retention basin, parking lot storage, rooftop
storage, porous pavement, dry wells, or any combination thereof.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
above the average elevation or ground at the foundation wall and the surface of
the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1422.png]
 
   Figure 9 - Basic Structural Terms
   STORY, HALF.  Is an uppermost story lying under a sloping roof having an
area of at least 200 square feet with a clear height of seven feet six inches.
For the purposes of this chapter, the usable floor area is only that area
having at least four feet clear height between floor and ceiling.
   STORY, MEZZANINE. An intermediate level or levels between the floor and
ceiling of any story, with an aggregate floor area of not more than 50% of the
area below it.
   STREET. A public right-of-way that has been dedicated to the public and
accepted for the purpose of providing access to abutting private lots or land,
including space for curb, gutter, paving, and sidewalks.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A street with a single, common ingress and egress, and
with a turnaround at the end.
   STREET, GRADE. The top of the curb or the top of the edge of the pavement or
traveled way where no curb exists.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street that is not public as defined by this chapter.
   STREET, PUBLIC. Any public right-of-way, conforming to Village of Sebewaing
standards, that provides vehicular access to adjacent properties.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   STRUCTURE CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof.
   STRUCTURE CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof.
   SUBDIVISION OR SUBDIVIDE. The division of single lot or parcel of land, or
part thereof, into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership for residential,
commercial, or industrial purposes; or the division of a single lot, tract, or
parcel of land, or a part thereof, into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels by
means of buildings, building groups, streets, alleys, parking areas, or
leaseholds, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
development for residential, commercial or industrial purposes, provided,
however, that divisions of land for agricultural purposes only, not involving
any new street or easement of access, shall not be included.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. See Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE REHABILITATIONS CENTER. See INSTITUTION, REHABILITATION.
   SUPPLY YARD. A fenced yard for the open or enclosed storage of supplies,
equipment, or merchandise.
   SWALE. A depression in the ground that channels runoff.
   SYSTEM BUILT HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   TATTOO/BODY PIERCING PARLOR. An establishment whose principal business
activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public, is the
practice of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Placing of designs, letters, figures, symbols, or other marks upon
or under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result in
the permanent coloration of the skin by means of the use of needles or other
instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin;
      (2)   Creation of an opening in the body of a person for the purpose of
inserting jewelry or other decoration.
   TAVERN. See BAR.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING AND STRUCTURES. A use in a temporary building or
structure, such as a portable storage unit, established for a fixed period of
time with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time
period granted in the special use permit.
   TENANT. An occupant of land or premises who occupies, uses, or enjoys real
property for a fixed time, usually through a lease arrangement with the
property owner and with the owner's consent.
   THEATER.  A building, or part of a building, devoted to showing motion
pictures, or dramatic, musical, or live performances.
   THOROUGHFARE. A thoroughfare is a road or street which is intended to
provide access for more than two dwelling units. If the thoroughfare is
maintained by the public, it is a public thoroughfare; if it is not maintained
by the public but is generally open to members of the public for the passage of
motor vehicles, it is a private thoroughfare. A way which is principally a
private driveway from which members of the public are generally excluded shall
not be considered a thoroughfare.
   TOWING OPERATIONS. An establishment that provides for the removal and
temporary storage (seven days) of vehicles but does not include disposal,
permanent disassembly, salvage or accessory storage of inoperable vehicles.
   TOWNHOUSE. A structure in which each dwelling unit shares a common wall with
at least one other dwelling unit and in which each dwelling unit has living
space on the ground floor and upper floor and has a separate ground-floor
entrance.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle designed to be drawn by an automotive/motorized
vehicle.
   TRUCK AND RAILROAD TERMINALS:
      (1)   A place where transfer between modes of transportation takes place.
      (2)   A terminating point where goods are transferred from a truck to a
storage area, or to other trucks, or picked up by other forms of
transportation.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. The driving and control component of a trailer rig. A truck
tractor is a self-propelled vehicle to which a trailer is attached.   
   UNIFIED CONTROL. The combination of two or more tracts of land, wherein each
owner has agreed their tract of land shall be developed as part of a planned
development and shall be subject to the control applicable to the planned
development.
   USE, BY RIGHT. Any use that is listed as a use by right in any given zoning
district in this chapter. Uses by right are not required to show need for their
location.
   USE, CHANGE OF. Any use which substantially differs from the previous use of
a building or land, or which imposes other special provisions of law governing
building construction, equipment, egress or ingress.
   USE, LAWFUL. The legal use of any structure or land that conforms with all
of the regulations of this code or any amendment that exists at the time of the
enactment of this code or any amendment thereto. All other uses are considered
nonconforming uses that may be deemed legal or illegal.
   USE, TEMPORARY. A use in a temporary building or structure on a parcel,
established for a fixed period of time with the intent to discontinue such use
upon the expiration of the time period granted in the administrative permit. An
outdoor temporary use has fewer than 250 people in attendance at one time and
may require a special use permit if determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   USED CAR LOT. See VEHICLE SALES.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the required provisions of the physical
development or land use standards of the zoning code granted when strict
enforcement of the zoning code would cause undue hardship owing to
circumstances unique to the individual property on which the VARIANCE is
granted.
   VEHICLE, MOTOR. A self-propelled device used for transportation of people or
goods over land surfaces and licensed as a motor vehicle.
   VEHICLE REPAIR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle steam cleaning
and oil change.
   VEHICLE SALES. A lot or portion thereof to be used only for the display and
sale of automobiles that are in a condition to be driven off the lot. A USED
CAR LOT shall not be used for the storage of wrecked automobiles, the
dismantling of automobiles, or the storage of automobile parts.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. See KENNEL.
   VISIBLE. Visible means capable of being seen by a person of normal visual
acuity.
   WALL, OBSCURING. A structure of definite height and location to serve as an
obscuring screen in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   WAREHOUSE. A building primarily used for the storage of goods and materials.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The system for the collection, treatment, storage, and
distribution of potable water from the source of supply to the consumer.
   WETLANDS. Areas delineated by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great
Lakes, and Energy as wetlands.
   WHOLESALE SALES. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional, or
professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals
or companies.
   WINDMILL. A structure utilizing wind power for the pumping of water for
agricultural use on the parcel of property on which the windmill is located, or
for electrical power generation for a residence and other permitted structures
and uses located on the subject parcel of property.
   WIND POWER GENERATING FACILITIES. Wind generating facilities that generate
original power on-site to be transferred to a transmission system for
distribution to customers. The definition of wind power generating facilities
shall not include individual wind power generating facilities erected and used
primarily for private use.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any device, including cellular towers, used
for transmitting and receiving radio waves, microwaves, and other similar
frequencies.
   YARDS. See SETBACK. A yard is the open ground space on premises unoccupied
by buildings and includes the following:
      (1)   The front yard is defined as the yard extending across the full
width of a premises between the nearest line of the main building or accessory
structure and the front line or highway right-of-way, as the case may be.
      (2)   The side yard is defined as the yard extending the full depth
(extending from the lot line or highway right-of-way line to the rear line of
the premises) of a premises between the nearest line of the main building or
accessory structure and adjacent lot line.
      (3)   The back yard is defined as all open, unoccupied spaces on the same
premises with the building, between the building and rear lot line.
      (4)   Required yard is a yard, as defined, that occupies the area of a
required setback.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1424.png]
 
   Figure 10 - Required Yards
   YARD SALE. A sales activity that takes place on an agriculturally or
residentially zoned parcel for no more than five consecutive days, twice in a
calendar year. Sales that exceed this duration are TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USES.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building in such a manner that one or more
of the building's sides is directly on a lot line.
   ZONE. A specifically delineated area or district in a municipality, within
which regulations and requirements uniformly govern the use, placement,
spacing, and size of lots and buildings.
   ZONING. The dividing of a municipality into districts and the establishment
of regulations governing the use, placement, spacing, and size of land and
buildings.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. Zoning Administrator shall mean the Village of
Sebewaing Zoning Administrator.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. Zoning Board of Appeals shall mean the Village of
Sebewaing Board of Appeals unless the specific use or the context indicates a
different reference.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
USE TABLES
§ 153.015 USE TABLES.
Table 1 - District Stated Intent and Purpose
District Stated Intent and Purpose
Table 1 - District Stated Intent and Purpose
District                              Stated Intent and Purpose
                                      This district is intended for
                                      agricultural and single-family dwelling
                                      units associated with farming operations,
                                      together in a compatible environment and
Agricultural (AG)                     to encourage the preservation and
                                      enhancement of agricultural land and
                                      farming practices together with specified
                                      nonagricultural activity allowed by
                                      ordinance.
                                      This district is intended primarily for
                                      single-family dwelling units together
Single-Family Residential (R-1 & R-2) with compatible uses. The purpose of this
                                      zone is to encourage a residential
                                      environment of low-density dwellings.
                                      This district is intended to permit local
                                      retail business and service uses that are
                                      desirable to serve the village's
                                      residential areas. In order to promote
Multiple Family Residential (MR)      good business development as far as is
                                      possible at an appropriate scale to
                                      adjoining residential areas, uses are
                                      prohibited which would create hazards,
                                      offensive or loud noises, vibration,
                                      smoke, glare, or heavy truck traffic.
                                      This district is intended to permit local
                                      and regional retail business and service
                                      uses which are desirable to serve the
                                      residential areas of the village. In
                                      order to promote good business
                                      development as far as is possible at an
                                      appropriate scale to adjoining
Commercial (C)                        residential areas, uses are prohibited
                                      which would create hazards, offensive or
                                      loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, or
                                      heavy truck traffic. In order to promote
                                      a pedestrian-friendly environment,
                                      single-family residential uses are
                                      permitted above the ground floor in the
                                      mixed-use commercial overlay district.
                                      This district is intended primarily for
                                      uses suited to more intense types of
Industrial (M)                        industrial and manufacturing uses, which
                                      are usually within industrial areas of
                                      the village.
                                      This district is intended to retain, as
                                      desirable and practical, parks, open
                                      space, forested areas, water access,
Recreation (REC)                      camping grounds, and other natural areas
                                      in the village. This district also
                                      permits development in keeping with the
                                      natural amenities and uses of these
                                      areas.
 
Table 2 - Uses - Agricultural (AG)
Permitted Uses Special Land Uses
Table 2 - Uses - Agricultural (AG)
Permitted Uses                         Special Land Uses
Accessory buildings and uses           Agriculture Bulk Collection, Storage,
                                       Distribution
Farming and agricultural               Short Term Rental
Greenhouses or nurseries               Campgrounds, RV Parks
Home occupations                       Cemeteries
Roadside stands for the sale of
products grown or produced on the      Cottage Industry
premises
Single-family residence                Educational institutions
State Licensed Residential facilities, Golf courses
1-6 people
Day Nurseries                          Kennels and Veterinary Clinics
                                      Outdoor uses, temporary
                                      Publicly owned buildings, public utility
                                       transformer stations, and substations
                                      Commercial Recreation
                                      State Licensed Residential Facilities,
                                       7-20 people
                                      Wind Energy Power Systems
                                      Wireless Communication
 
Table 3 - Uses - Single-Family Residential (R-1 & R-2)
Permitted Uses Special Land Uses
Table 3 - Uses - Single-Family Residential (R-1 & R-2)
Permitted Uses                                    Special Land Uses
Accessory buildings and uses                      Short Term Rental
Home occupations within the principal dwelling    Day nurseries
Parks and playgrounds                             Educational institutions
                                                  Publicly owned buildings,
Single-family dwelling units                      public utility transformer
                                                  stations, and substations
State Licensed Residential facilities for 1-       
6 people
Townhouse or Stacked Flat                          
Farming, but the keeping of livestock and fowl,    
other than chickens, is not permitted   
Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks,      
parkways, and recreational facilities   
 
Table 4 - Uses - Multiple Family Residential (MR)
Permitted Uses Special Land Uses
Table 4 - Uses - Multiple Family Residential (MR)
Permitted Uses                          Special Land Uses
All uses permitted by right in RA-1 and All uses permitted by SUP in RA-1, RA-2
RA-2
Day Nurseries                           Nursing homes, Hospitals, senior
                                        housing, human care institutions
Multiple-family dwellings               Planned Unit Development
Two-family dwellings                    State Licensed Residential facilities
                                        for 7-20 people
                                       Manufactured Housing Park
                                       Commercial Recreation
                                       Religious Institutions
 
Table 5 - Uses - Commercial (C)
Permitted Uses Special Land Uses
Table 5 - Uses - Commercial (C)
Permitted Uses                          Special Land Uses
Accessory building and uses             Planned Unit Development
Day Nurseries                        Wireless Communication
Educational Institutions                Commercial Recreation
Gas Stations, Auto Service stations     Restaurants, Drive Through and Drive-In
Greenhouses and Nurseries               Automobile Body and Paint shops
Hospitals                               Mini storage
Hotels, motels, restaurants             Outdoor uses, permanent and temporary
Nursing and convalescent facilities     Light manufacturing within the building
                                        Publicly owned buildings, public
Offices                                 utility transformer stations, and
                                        substations
Personal Services                       Social Institutions
Public spaces to promote placemaking   
Religious Institutions, Religious        
Houses
Research, Technological and              
laboratories    
Dwelling units above the ground          
floor   
Restaurants                           
Retail sales and service businesses      
State Licensed Residential facilities    
   
Veterinary hospitals and kennels      
Airport                               
 
Table 6 - Uses - Mixed Use Commercial Overlay
Permitted Uses Special Land Uses
Table 6 - Uses - Mixed Use Commercial Overlay
Permitted Uses                          Special Land Uses
Accessory building and uses             Wireless Communication
Day Nurseries                           Commercial Recreation
Educational Institutions                Outdoor uses, permanent and temporary
Hotels, motels, restaurants             Light manufacturing within the building
                                        Publicly owned buildings, public
Nursing and convalescent facilities     utility transformer stations, and
                                        substations
Offices                                 Social Institutions
Personal Services                     
Public spaces to promote placemaking   
Religious Institutions, Religious        
Houses
Research, Technological and              
laboratories    
Dwelling units above the ground          
floor   
Restaurants                           
Retail sales and service businesses      
State Licensed Residential facilities    
 
Table 7 - Uses - Industrial (M)
Permitted Uses Special Land Uses
Table 7 - Uses - Industrial (M)
Permitted Uses                                                Special Land Uses
                                                              Agricultural Bulk
Accessory buildings and uses                                  Storage,
                                                              Collection,
                                                              Distribution
Automobile body and paint shops                               Wireless
                                                              Communication
Car Wash                                                      High-Intensity
                                                              Uses
Day Nurseries                                                 Sexually Oriented
                                                              Businesses
Educational Institutions                                       
Greenhouses and Nurseries                                   
Kennels and Veterinary Hospitals                            
Lumber Yards                                                   
Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, or
treatment of prefabricated buildings and structural members;   
chemical products, biological, pharmaceutical    
Publicly owned buildings, public utility transformer           
stations, and substations   
Recreational, Commercial                                       
Research, Technological and Laboratories                    
Warehouses, wholesale sales operations, vehicle terminals,     
and storage yards
Heavy construction contractors                                 
Transportation and farm equipment                           
 
 
Table 8 - Uses - Recreation (REC)
Permitted Uses                           Special Land Uses
Outdoor recreation facility              Short term rental
Publicly owned buildings, public utility Private recreation facilities
transformer stations, and substations
Public spaces to promote placemaking     Campgrounds, public and private
Marina                                   RV parks, public and private
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.016 AREA, HEIGHT, AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table presents the minimum and maximum area, height, and
distance requirements for each district with the Village of Sebewaing Zoning
Ordinance.
   Table 9: Required Dimensional Regulations for All Districts
District (d)(e) AG R-1 R-2 (existing lots) MR C M REC
District                     R-2
(d)(e)     AG       R-1      (existing MR      C        M          REC
                             lots)
Lot area   1 acre   9,000    5,000     6,000   None     None
Lot width  100 feet 75 feet  50 feet   60 feet None     None
Minimum                                                 10 feet,
front      50 feet  25 feet  10 feet   25 feet 5 feet   25 feet    Per special
setback                                                            use
Minimum                                                            requirements
rear       10 feet  35 feet  10 feet   35 feet 20 feet  NA         and site
setback                                                            plan review
Minimum             5 feet   5 feet    5 feet           5 feet, 10
side       10 feet  (a)      (a)       (a)     (b) (c)  feet (c)
setback
Minimum    1,400    1,400    1,400     1,400
square     s.f.     s.f.     s.f.      s.f.    NA       NA         NA
footage
Maximum    35 feet, 25 feet  25 feet   25 feet 49 feet  50 feet or
structure  or 2.5   or two   or two    or two  or three three      NA
height     stories  stories  stories   stories stories  stories
Maximum
lot        35%      35%      35%       35%     None     None       NA
coverage
Accessory
structures NA       384 s.f. 384 s.f.  NA      NA       NA         NA
(g)
 
Footnotes to table:
(a)   The required side yard abutting upon a street shall not be less than ten
feet when there is a common rear yard. In the case of a rear yard abutting a
side yard of an adjacent lot, the side yard abutting a street shall not be less
than 25 feet.
(b)   No side yards are required along the interior side lot lines, except as
otherwise specified by the Huron County adopted building code. On the exterior
side yard, which borders on a residential district, there shall be provided a
setback of at least ten feet on the side or residential street.
(c)   No building shall be closer to the property line than the herein required
side yard, except that no yard shall be required along the interior side lot
lines when the property line is adjacent to like-use districts or to railroad
rights-of-way.
(d)   All districts: In determining the placement of a structure on a lot, the
front building setback line shall be measured from the future right-of-way in
accordance with the village's right-of-way plan as adopted. Lots having
frontage on more than one road or body of water shall maintain a front building
setback line on each road or body of water.
(e)   No structure shall be built in the FEMA designed flood zone unless it
meets FEMA floodproofing requirements and any state requirements or permits
regarding the flood zone.
(f)   When adopted in the future, structures within the wellhead protection
zone must comply with the Village's Wellhead Protection Ordinance.
(g)   Accessory structures other than buildings shall have a minimum front,
side, and rear yard setback of ten feet.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.020 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Accessory uses. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit
the following accessory uses:
      (1)   Customary refreshment and service uses and buildings that are
incidental to the recreational use of any park or recreational area.
      (2)   Buildings or structures necessary for the provision of essential
services.
      (3)   Gardens, garden ornaments and usual landscape features within
required yard space.
      (4)   Retaining walls.
      (5)   Public playgrounds.
      (6)   Off-street parking for licensed automobiles, recreational vehicles
and other motor vehicles not including trucks over one and one-half ton rated
capacity.
      (7)   Home occupations.
      (8)   Use of premises as a voting place.
      (9)   Storage sheds, playhouses, dog houses, detached garages and
shelters for transit or school bus passengers.
      (10)   Radio or television antennas or satellite dishes.
      (11)   Swimming pools.
      (12)   Front yard handicap access facilities in residential districts
with proof of need.
      (13)   Carports.
   (B)   Storage, dumping of waste, junk, etc.
      (1)   The use of land or water resources for the dumping or disposal of
scrap iron, metal, rubber, plastic refuse, junk, slag, ash shall not be
permitted, except in such cases where a temporary permit is obtained from the
Zoning Administrator, upon approval of the Planning Commission, after a public
hearing and in accordance with Part 115 of the Michigan Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act as amended. Such permit shall not exceed one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed on an annual basis only after
approval is granted by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Bond/agreement. An appropriate bond and agreement shall be required
of the applicant to ensure compliance with the directives set forth by the
Planning Commission. Such dumping or disposal shall not negatively affect the
water table, or cause pollution of stagnant or running water in any area of the
village or attract rodents, vectors or other nuisances so as to create health
or safety problems to the natural environment and the inhabitants of the
village. Nor shall the natural terrain be altered in any fashion to create
safety or health hazards at the expiration date of the permit. The character of
the land shall not be substantially altered so as to make it unusable for the
uses for which it was originally zoned.
   (C)   Temporary use permit.
      (1)   For profit uses:
         (a)   A temporary use permit fee shall be established by the Village
Council for all "for profit" temporary uses.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may issue temporary use permits for up
to 60 days unless otherwise stated in these regulations, after determining
these uses will not be detrimental to adjacent conforming uses during the
permitted period of use. A second temporary use permit may be issued by the
Zoning Administrator at the end of a time limit if the applicant shows good
cause for up to 30 additional days, not to exceed 90 days in one calendar year.
The Zoning Administrator may attach the conditions and requirements deemed
necessary to meet the intent of the provisions of this section.
         (c)   A scaled drawing shall be required with each permit application
and shall show the location of sales outside the required setbacks for the
district. The drawing must be signed by the owner of the parcel.
         (d)   Structures used for the sale or display of outdoor items shall
not be used for human shelter overnight.
         (e)   Temporary uses, including display or sale of items shall not be
located within the required yard or setback area.
         (f)   Adequate off-street parking shall be maintained at all times and
shall not displace required off-street parking nor cause parking or traffic
congestion on adjacent streets or properties.
         (g)   Temporary uses selling items for human consumption shall have
access to hand washing and toilet facilities.
         (h)   Temporary signage shall be permitted as described in §§
153.060 through
153.068.
         (i)   There shall be no external lighting of temporary structures
abutting residential districts except lighting that is already present on the
site.
         (j)   Temporary structures shall not have a permanent foundation, move
in any way or become unattached due to wind. A temporary structure may not
exceed 15 feet in height or 200 square feet in area. It may not be a trailer or
semitrailer.
         (k)   Structures of any kind must be removed within three days of the
expiration of the permit. Merchandise, signage, waste, debris and all equipment
used on the site shall also be removed.
         (l)   An individual manufactured home or other temporary structure may
be used as temporary living or working quarters for up to 90 days while a
dwelling or structure is being constructed or reconstructed on the same
premises.
         (m)   Construction supplies to be used on the site. The storage of
building supplies and machinery; temporary storage buildings; the assembly of
materials associated with a customary trade; and contractor, architect, and
identification signs in connection with a construction project, may be
authorized by the Huron County Building Department for a period of up to 12
months.
      (2)   Nonprofit uses.
         (a)   A nonprofit organization may be granted a temporary permit at no
charge for outdoor/seasonal/temporary uses meeting the definition of a
nonprofit organization as defined in §
153.011.
         (b)   The temporary use shall not exceed seven days within a 30 day
period. A second temporary use permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator
at the end of a time limit if the applicant shows good cause for up to seven
additional consecutive days up to a maximum of 60 days per calendar year.
         (c)   A drawing of the site and description of activity shall be
provided. All zoning code shall be complied with.
         (d)   All conditions listed for profit organizations in §
153.020(C)(1)(c) through (m).
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.021 DWELLING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The following standards shall be applied to each dwelling
unit constructed or placed in the Village of Sebewaing:
      (1)   It complies with the minimum square footage requirements of §
153.016 for the zone in which it is located.
      (2)   It has a minimum width across any section of 20 feet and complies
in all respects with the Huron County adopted building code, including minimum
heights for habitable rooms. Where a dwelling is required by law to comply with
any federal or state standards or regulations for construction, and where the
standards of construction are less stringent than those imposed by the Huron
County adopted building code, then the more stringent village regulations shall
apply.
      (3)   It is firmly attached to a permanent foundation, constructed on the
site in accordance with the Huron County adopted building code and co-extensive
with the perimeter of the building, which attachment shall also meet all Huron
County applicable building codes and other state and federal regulations.
      (4)   It does not have exposed wheels, towing mechanism, undercarriage,
or chassis.
      (5)   The dwelling is connected to a public sewer and water supply or to
private facilities approved by the local health department.
      (6)   The dwelling contains a storage area either in a basement located
under the dwelling, in an attic area, in closet areas, or in a separate
structure being of standard construction similar to or of better quality than
the principal dwelling. Standards for construction of structures for the
storage or protection of autos must also be of similar or better quality than
the principal dwelling and the same or lower height as the principal structure.
Metal and fabric carports are not permitted. This does not pertain to
agricultural uses. The storage shall be in addition to the space for the
storage of automobiles and shall be equal to not less than 15% of the minimum
square footage requirement of §
153.016 for the zone in which the dwelling is located. However, in no case
shall more than 200 square feet of storage area be required by this provision.
      (7)   The dwelling is aesthetically compatible in design and appearance
with other residences in the vicinity, with either a roof overhang of not less
than six inches on all sides, or alternatively with window sills and roof
drainage systems concentrating roof drainage along the sides of the dwelling.
Also, not less than two exterior doors, with one being in the front of the
dwelling and the other being either at the rear or side of the dwelling, and
with permanently-attached steps or ramps connected to the exterior door areas
or to porches connected to the door areas where a difference in elevation
requires these steps or ramps.
      (8)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the Building Official upon review of the plans submitted
for a particular dwelling, subject to appeal by an aggrieved party to the
Zoning Board of Appeals within a period of 15 days from the receipt of notice
of the Huron County Building Official's decision. Any determination of
compatibility shall be based upon the standards set forth in the definition of
DWELLING as well as the character of residential development outside of mobile
home parks within 2,000 feet of the subject dwelling where the area is
developed with dwellings to the extent of not less than 20% of the area, or
where the area is not so developed, by the character of residential development
outside of mobile home parks throughout the village. The foregoing shall not be
construed to prohibit innovative design concepts involving such matters as
solar energy, view, unique land contour, or relief from the common or standard
designed home.
      (9)   The dwelling contains no additions or rooms or other areas except
those which are constructed with similar materials, are similar in appearance,
and have similar quality of workmanship as the original structure, including
the above-described foundation and permanent attachment to the principal
structure.
      (10)   The dwelling complies with all pertinent Huron County building and
fire codes including, in the case of mobile homes, the standards for mobile
home construction as contained in the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD) regulations entitled "Mobile Home Construction and
Safety Standards," effective June 15, 1976, as amended.
      (11)   The preceding standards shall not apply to a mobile home located
in a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by the state or
federal law or otherwise specifically required in the code of the village
pertaining to these parks.
   (B)   Basement dwellings. The use of a basement, or the basement of a
partially built or planned building as a residence or dwelling unit is
prohibited in all zones, except as living quarters for priests, ministers, and
their equivalent as provided by the Zoning Board of Appeals. This shall not
prohibit a dwelling unit located partially below ground that has access to a
hallway providing two remote means of egress to ground level.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.022 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Private roads. Private roads are prohibited in the Village of
Sebewaing.
   (B)   Public nuisance, per se. Any building or structure which is erected,
altered, or converted, or any use of premises or land which is begun or changed
subsequent to the time of passage of this section and in violation of any of
the provisions thereof, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and
may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Reversion of rezoned area. In the case of land which has been approved
for a zoning change, construction on the parcel must begin within a period of
one year from approval of the zone change. If construction does not commence
within this period, the Planning Commission may initiate a rezoning to return
the land to the previous zoning designation, or to another designation. The
process for returning the land to its previous zoning designation must comply
with the amendment process provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Streets. To provide for the public health and welfare through adequate
light and ventilation and for the safety of persons and property in the use of
the streets of the village, all public streets platted, laid out, or dedicated
and accepted by the village shall have a right of way width of at least 66
feet.
   (E)   Junk motor vehicles. Motor vehicles, which are inoperable or not
currently licensed shall be deemed to be junk or refuse and shall not be stored
in any residential zone except within the confines of an enclosed building. If
after two complaints and citations, or 30 days by the village Zoning
Administrator, the material remains in violation of this chapter, the village
may cause the violation to be removed, and bill the property owner. If the
billing is not paid within 90 days it shall become a lien on the property,
properly recorded at the county.
   (F)   Parking of heavy trucks. Please see village waiver.
   (G)   Parking of licensed recreational equipment. Parking of licensed
recreational equipment outside of an enclosed structure, including travel
trailers, campers, snowmobiles, boats, and similar items in any agricultural or
residential zoning districts, must conform to required setbacks for accessory
structures and to overall limitations for lot coverage. No recreational
vehicles may be parked in commercial or industrial districts unless they are
parked in conjunction with the parcel's principal use, such recreational
vehicle sales or repair, or in a completely enclosed building.
   (H)   Portable storage units. Temporary portable storage units are allowed
up to 30 days within a ninety-day period in residential districts. The unit
must be located at least eight feet from the side lot line and five feet from
the rear property line and outside the required front yard setback. A zoning
permit is required for placement. Units are not permitted on vacant land or on
the public right of way. Only one unit shall be permitted at a time on each
parcel. Units may not exceed 130 square feet in size. Dumpsters are not
regulated with this provision. See §§
153.100 through 153.107.
   (I)   Required area or space.
      (1)   No lot, or lots in common ownership and no yard, court, parking
area, or other space shall be divided, altered, or reduced to make its area
dimensions less than the minimum required under this chapter, and the area or
dimension shall not be further divided or reduced.
      (2)   Adjacent lots in common ownership shall be considered one lot for
purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   Adjacent lots in a residentially zoned area with common ownership
where one lot has a nonresidential structure located on it shall be combined to
form one lot upon the sale of either lot. Lots with nonresidential structures
in residentially zoned areas shall not be sold separately from a residential
dwelling unit unless the nonresidential structure is demolished, and the lot is
of sufficient size to be developed residentially.
      (4)   Sebewaing River. Any construction within 200 feet of each side of
the center of the Sebewaing River (Saginaw Bay to the confluence of the State
and Columbia drains) will require proper permits or letters indicating no
jurisdiction from the following agencies:
      Sebewaing River Intercounty Drain Board
      Huron County Drain Commission
      PO Box 270
      417 South Hanselman Street
      Bad Axe, MI 48413
      Phone: 989-269-9320
      US Army Corps of Engineers (both of the following offices must be
contacted)
         Chief of Regulatory Office
         US Army Corps of Engineers
         477 Michigan Ave., 6th Floor
         Detroit, MI 48226
         313-226-7732
         Chief of Operations
         US Army Corps of Engineers
         477 Michigan Ave., 7th Floor
         Detroit, MI 48226
         313-226-5013
      Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy
      Water Resources Division
      401 Ketchum
      Bay City, MI 48708
      989-894-6200
      Other permits that may be required include but are not limited to
following agencies:
         Huron County Building and Zoning
         Huron County Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
         250 E. Huron Ave.
         Bad Axe, MI 48413
         989-269-9269
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage. The front lot lines of all parcels shall abut
a public street and shall have a contiguous permanent frontage at the front lot
line equal to the required parcel width. Flag lots are not permitted. In the
case of a cul-de-sac, parcel width is measured at the front yard setback line.
      (6)   Access to a street. Any parcel created after the effective date of
this chapter, and in a commercial zoning district, or with access points to a
street with curb and gutter, shall have a hard-surfaced approach to a public
street. All parcels created after the effective date of this chapter shall have
access to a public street.
      (7)   Space used once. Any yard or other open space provided around any
building or structure for the purpose of complyin g with the provision s of
this chapter shall not again be used as a yard or other required open space for
another building or structure except where one is to be demolished upon
completi on of the other.
   (J)    Required water supply and sanitary sewerage facilities.
      (1)   Water supply. No structure shall be erected, altered, or moved upon
any parcel for regular occupati on or use by humans or animals unless it is
provided with a safe, sanitary, and potable water supply and with a safe and
effective means of collection, treatment, and disposal of human, domestic,
commercial, and industrial waste. All such installations and facilities shall
conform with all requirements of the Huron County Health Department and
applicable State agencies.
      (2)   Sewage wastes. No industrial sewage wastes shall be discharged into
sewers that will cause a chemical reaction, either directly or indirectly with
the materials to impair the strength of sewer structures; cause mechanical
action that will damage the sewer structures; cause restriction of the capacity
of sewer structures; cause unusual demands on the sewage treatment process;
cause danger to public health and safety; or cause obnoxious conditions.
   (K)   Fences, walls, and non-botanical screens.
      (1)   Prior to construction, reconstruction or establishment of a fence,
wall or screen regulated by this section, a permit shall be obtained from the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In all zoning districts, no fence, wall or hedge plantings shall
exceed a height of four feet within street side yard or front yard setbacks of
any street right-of-way line, except on a corner lot. Fences, walls or
structural screens shall not exceed four feet in any front yard or six feet in
any side or rear yard. Fences that enclose public or institutional uses,
playgrounds or public landscaped areas, shall not exceed eight feet in height
and shall not obstruct vision.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1434.png]
 
      (3)   On a corner lot, fences, walls or hedge planting cannot exceed a
height of four feet in the street side yard setback unless all of the following
conditions can be satisfied:
         (a)   Must begin at the back of the house or primary structure.
         (b)   Does not create a safety hazard.
         (c)   Houses or buildings on property adjacent to the rear of the
subject parcel shall not face the same street as the street side yard in which
the fence will be located.
         (d)   Shall not exceed a maximum of six feet from grade.
      (4)   On a through lot where the back yard faces an adjacent front yard
the maximum height of a fence shall be four feet.
      (5)   Plant materials located within 30 feet of the pavement of a public
right of way shall not obstruct visibility between a height of four feet and
eight feet.
      (6)   Fences shall be located outside of the road right of way and inside
all property lines. A property survey will be required prior to approval of a
zoning permit for any construction or improvement on property located within
ten feet of the property line, sidewalk edge or street right-of-way.
Construction or improvements will include, but are not limited to, fences,
landscaping and building improvements or construction.
      (7)   All fences shall be maintained in their upright condition. Missing
boards, pickets or posts shall be replaced in a timely manner with material of
the same type and quality.
      (8)   Fences in the residential, commercial and industrial districts must
be built with chain link, standard fence wood, plastic or metal such as wrought
iron. Fences may not be built with scrap lumber, chicken wire, wire mesh, wood
pallets or other non-standard fence materials not approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Chain link fences shall not have slats within the links in the
residential areas. Barbed wire, electrified components or similar fencing that
is likely to cause injury shall not be used in any residential district.
      (9)   Fences shall not interfere with any public utility or easement to a
utility.
      (10)   When the requested fence is to enclose a swimming pool, the
maximum height permissible under this section shall be six feet. Permission to
erect a fence to enclose a swimming pool on property zoned other than R-1 or R-
2 at a height greater than six feet shall be granted only upon application to
the Zoning Board of Appeals and after a hearing and favorable vote thereon.
   (L)   Floodplain. New construction in any FEMA designated floodplain is
prohibited unless FEMA floodproofing standards are met. See Village FIRM map
and FEMA Floodproofing Guidelines
   (M)   Wellhead protection. Uses within the wellhead protection zones must
meet the village’s Wellhead Protection Ordinance, when adopted.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.023 BUFFERING.
   The intent and purpose of the buffer zone is to protect residential uses
from the negative impacts associated with nonresidential uses where residential
and nonresidential uses abut. These negative impacts include noise, debris,
odors, dust, dirt, traffic, soil erosion, rainwater runoff and in some cases
visible aspects of the abutting use. The buffer zone is also intended to
prevent and improve blight in both residential and commercial areas by
encouraging improvements to uses that abut residential districts.
   (A)   The objectives of this approach are:
      (1)   To give the Planning Commission and the proponent as much
opportunity to achieve the regulations by any suitable means.
      (2)   To encourage business owners to continue to invest in commercial
improvements, including relocating on lots where a strict interpretation of the
distance requirement cannot be met.
   (B)   Buffers are required on commercial or industrial property on the side
which abuts residentially zoned property. Buffers are required even when the
adjacent lot is unimproved. A buffer will be required when any parcel used for
commercial or industrial purposes is expanded by way of an addition or
demolition or a special land use approval is requested, or a site plan review
is requested. Buffers are not required on commercial lots that are already
developed as such.
   (C)   A buffer may consist of both a physical distance separation and a
physical sight, sound and odor separation as described in this chapter by a
fence, wall, berm or screen.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall determine the character of the buffer
based on the following criteria:
      (1)   Traffic impact;
      (2)   Increased building and parking lot coverage;
      (3)   Increased outdoor sales, display and manufacturing area;
      (4)   Physical characteristics of the site and surrounding area such as
topography, vegetation, etc.;
      (5)   Visual, noise and air pollution levels; and
      (6)   Health, safety and welfare of the village.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.024 STRUCTURAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Abandoned buildings and structures. Any building or structure not in
continuous use as defined by permitted, special land use, or nonconforming uses
in any district for a period greater than six months shall be considered
abandoned and come under the provisions of this chapter and other village codes
for buildings and structures. In order to obtain a certificate of occupancy as
a use in the future, once six months have passed, the building or structure
shall have to meet all the current standards of all applicable village codes.
   (B)   Accessory buildings/structures in any district. No accessory building
or structure may be built upon any lot on which there is no principal building.
Accessory structures and buildings may not be inhabited. No accessory building
(except for school bus shelters) shall be placed in any front or side yard or
closer than ten feet to any other building. Accessory buildings include but are
not limited to structures used for the uses listed under §
153.020(A).
   (C)   Building and occupancy permits.
      (1)   Building permits required. Any construction related to any type of
zoning administrative approval shall be commenced only after a building permit
has been obtained.
      (2)   Prior building permits. Any building permit issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be valid, even though not conforming to
the provisions of this chapter, provided construction is commenced within 90
days after the date the permit was issued and that the building is completed
according to the plans filed with the permit application within one year of the
date of issuance.
      (3)   Occupancy permit. Upon completion of a structure and all required
site improvements per approved site plan, and before moving into a building in
any district, an occupancy permit is required.
   (D)   Building site and storage requirements.
      (1)   Exterior lighting.  All lighting for parking areas or for the
external illumination of building or for the illumination of signs shall be
directed away from and shall be shielded from adjacent districts and shall also
be arranged so to not adversely affect driver visibility on adjacent
thoroughfares.
      (2)   Corner clearance. No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other
obstruction to vision above the height of four feet from the established street
grades shall be permitted within the triangular area formed at the intersection
of any street right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between said right-
of-way lines at a distance along each line of 30 feet from their point of
intersection.
      (3)   Storage of garbage. All garbage and rubbish must be stored in
closed containers or in a dumpster. Garbage may be stored in a building until
the time of collection. No garbage or rubbish may be stored for a period of
more than two weeks, or so as to cause hardship, health hazard, or annoyance to
adjoining properties.
   (E)   Connections to drainage system. Surface drains, groundwater drains,
and foundation or footing drains, shall be connected whenever possible to an
enclosed storm sewer, but they shall not discharge to a sanitary sewer or
private wastewater treatment plant.
   (F)   Height and area zoning exceptions. The height and area requirements of
all zones shall be subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   Height. Chimneys; cooling towers; elevator bulkhead; fire towers;
gas tanks; grain elevators; stacks; stage towers or scenery lofts; flour mills;
food processing plants; television antennas; refineries; tanks; water towers;
radio towers; ornamental towers; monuments; cupolas; domes and spires;
necessary mechanical appurtenances; and additions to existing buildings which
now exceed the height limitations of the zone district may not exceed 50 feet.
      (2)   Permitted yard encroachments. The following items shall be
considered to be accessory structures, even though they may be attached to a
principal building and may project into required side or rear yards for the
principal building.
         (a)   Open porches, paved terraces and patios, provided the following
restrictions apply. NOTE: Enclosed porches are considered to be part of the
principal building, subject to all yard, setback and area requirements.
         (b)   The highest finished elevation of the paved area or porch is not
over three feet above the average surrounding finished grade.
         (c)   If roofed, a porch is unenclosed, and the roof is no higher than
one story. A roofed area may not exceed 10% of the required side or rear yard.
         (d)   If unroofed, paved areas or porches may have non-continuous
windbreaks or walls not over six feet high and not enclosing more than ½ the
perimeter of the paved area or porch.
         (e)   Structural elements such as cornices, sills, chimneys, gutters,
and similar features projecting a maximum of two and ½ feet.
         (f)   Fire escapes, outside stairways, and balconies, if of open
construction, projecting a maximum of five feet.
         (g)   Signs, as permitted in §§
153.060 through
153.068.
         (h)   Handicap accessible facilities.
   (G)   Restoring unsafe buildings. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any part of any building or
structure declared unsafe by the Zoning Administrator. Any such strengthening
or restoring shall be in accordance with the Huron County adopted building
code.
   (H)   Roof and surface drainage. If a building is equipped with gutters or
other means for collection of roof water, the downspouts and/or roof water
conductor pipes shall be discharged on unpaved ground or paved surface at a
distance of at least three feet from the building wall. Further the grade line
at the building wall shall be sloped away from the wall at the rate of at least
one inch per foot, for a minimum of five feet. Where settlement of the ground
has occurred at the building wall, then the property owner is required to add
fill to correct the condition to conform with this requirement.
   (I)   One dwelling per parcel. See definition of DWELLING in §
153.011.
   (J)   Site and building hazard and nuisance prevention. No use otherwise
allowed shall be permitted within any district which does not conform to the
following standards of use, occupancy and operation, which standards are hereby
established as the minimum requirements to be maintained within the area.
      (1)   Dumping of hazardous/radioactive wastes. Dumping of hazardous waste
materials and/or nuclear wastes shall not be allowed within the village, except
as permitted by current federal and state regulations.
      (2)   Odor. The emission of noxious, odorous matter in such quantities as
to be readily detectable at a point along any property line, when diluted in
the ratio of one volume of odorous air to four or more volumes of clean air, so
as to produce a public nuisance or hazard beyond lot line is prohibited.
      (3)   Smoke, dust, dirt, and fly ash.  It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to permit the emission of any smoke, dust, dirt or
fly ash from any source whatever which would impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property or unreasonably diminish or impair established
property values within the surrounding area or in any other respect
unreasonably impair the public health, safety or comfort or welfare of the
inhabitants of the village.
      (4)   Open storage. The open storage for junk, scrap or salvage, or other
waste products, where the operations are for the conversion to saleable
materials shall be screened from public view from a public street and from
adjoining properties not of a similar nature by an enclosure consisting of an
obscuring wall or fence not less than eight feet high.
      (5)   Glare and radioactive materials. Glare from any process (such as,
or similar to, arc welding or acetylene-torch cutting) which emits harmful
ultraviolet rays shall be performed in a manner as not to be seen from any
point beyond the property line and as not to create a public nuisance or hazard
along lot lines. Radioactive materials and wastes shall not be emitted to
exceed quantities established as safe by the United States Bureau of Standards
when measured at the property line.
      (6)   Fire and explosive hazards.
         (a)   In the M Districts, the storage, utilization or manufacture of
materials or products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning as
determined by the Fire Marshal is permitted subject to compliance with all
other performance standards above mentioned.
         (b)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of materials, goods or
products ranging from free to active burning to intense burning, as determined
by the Fire Marshal is permitted subject to compliance with all other yard
requirements and performance standards previously mentioned and providing the
following conditions are met.
            1.   The materials or products shall be stored, utilized or
produced within completely enclosed buildings or structures having
incombustible exterior walls which meet the requirements of the Huron County
adopted building code.
            2.   All buildings or products shall be set back at least 40 feet
from lot lines; or in lieu thereof, all buildings or structures shall be
protected throughout by an automatic sprinkler system complying with
installation standards prescribed by the National Fire Association.
            3.   The storage and handling of flammable liquids, liquefied
petroleum gases and explosives shall comply with Public Act 207 of 1941, being
M.C.L. §§ 29.1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.025 BLIGHT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to prevent, reduce or
eliminate blight or the potential blight in the village by the prevention or
elimination of certain environmental causes of blight or blighting factors
which exist or which may in the future exist in the village.
   (B)   Causes of blight.
      (1)   The building meets the definition of a dangerous building under
M.C.L. § 125.539.
      (2)   And enforced under Michigan Compiled Laws M.C.L. §§ 125.540 through
125.541a as amended: Violations: Violations of blight and dangerous buildings
will be noticed.
      (3)   It is hereby determined the following uses, structures and
activities are causes of blight or blighting factors which, if allowed to
exist, will tend to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods. On and
after the effective date of this chapter no person, firm, or corporation of any
kind shall maintain or permit to be maintained any of these causes of blight or
blighting factors upon any premises in the Village of Sebewaing owned, leased,
rented or occupied by such person, firm, or corporation as follows:
         (a)   The storage upon any premises of any junk automobile, except in
a completely enclosed building. For the purpose of this chapter, the term JUNK
AUTOMOBILE shall include any motor vehicle which is not licensed for use upon
the highways of the State of Michigan for a period in excess of 60 days.
         (b)   The outdoor storage upon any premises of building materials
unless a valid building permit has been issued by the appropriate authority not
more than one year previously for construction upon said premises, and the
materials are intended for use in connection with such construction. Building
materials shall include but not be limited to lumber, bricks, concrete or
cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating
ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws, or any
other materials used in constructing any structure; provided, outdoor storage
of building materials which is not in violation of applicable zoning or safety
regulations is permitted if said materials are kept out of view of the public
and abutting premises; and provided further, all construction debris shall be
removed from any premises within 30 days after occupancy thereof.
         (c)   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish or refuse of
any kind, except domestic refuse stored in such a manner as not to create a
nuisance for a period of not to exceed 30 days. The term "junk" shall include
parts of machinery or motor vehicles, unused household appliances stored in the
open, remnants of wood, metal or other materials or other castoff material of
any kind whether or not same could be put to any reasonable use.
      (4)   The existence of any vacant dwelling, garage, or other out-building
unless the same is kept securely locked, windows kept glassed or neatly boarded
up, and otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by vandals.
      (5)   The causes of blighting factors hereinbefore prohibited unless such
uses of property are incidental to and necessary for the carrying on of any
business or occupation lawfully being conducted upon the premises involved.
      (6)   In any area, the existence of any structure or part of structure
which because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable as a dwelling, nor useful for any other
purpose for which it may have been intended.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
§ 153.030 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit the continuation of any lawful
use of building or land existing as of the effective date of this chapter.
Nonconformance with the provisions of this chapter is not in the best interest
of the village and should be discontinued as circumstances permit. Any
nonconforming building, structure or use shall not be enlarged or expanded and
may be changed, repaired, or reconstructed only as prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.031 HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
   Any nonconforming property in the village which is listed on the State or
National Register of Historic Places is specifically excluded from any
requirement of this section which would damage the historic character of the
property. When any such property is the subject of any administrative decision,
the input of the Michigan State Historic Preservation Officer shall be
requested in writing not less than 30 days before any regulatory action may
take effect.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.032 LEGALITY OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   Nonconformities will be classified as "legal" or "illegal" based on the
following guidelines. Regulation of nonconformities will vary based on their
legality:
   (A)   Illegal nonconformities are those that have been developed in conflict
with zoning regulations.
   (B)   Legal nonconformities are those that meet each applicable criterion
listed below. Note that temporary signs are not considered legal nonconforming
structures.
      (1)   The nonconformity existed legally before the effective date of this
chapter.
      (2)   The nonconformity complied with the district regulations of the
previous zoning ordinance or existed legally through a special use permit or
variance.
      (3)   Nonconforming setback or lot size only. The nonconformity resulted
from land acquisition by a government agency, such as for a road right-of-way.
      (4)   Nonconforming buildings or structures only. The building or
structure does not extend into a public right-of-way, or over a neighboring
property line.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.033 LOSS OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING STATUS.
   If a nonconforming use of land or structure ceases for any reason for a
period of one year or more, any reuse of the land or structure must conform to
all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.034 EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMITY PROHIBITED.
   No structure may be enlarged or structurally altered in such a way as to
increase its nonconformity. A reduction of the degree of nonconformance in one
respect is not permitted to offset an increase in the degree of nonconformance
in another respect. For example, square footage may not be "traded" from one
portion of a building to another. Nor may one nonconforming use be replaced by
another unless the degree of nonconformance is reduced in some way.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.035 REPAIR.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the repair, improvement, or
modernizing of a lawful nonconforming building to correct deterioration,
obsolescence, depreciation, or wear. No repair may enlarge or structurally
alter the structure in such a way as to increase the nonconformity. Residential
structures undergoing repair for purposes of providing handicapped facilities
are exempt from these requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.036 CHANGING USES.
   The use of a lawful nonconforming building or structure may be changed only
to another use that is less nonconforming. This use may or may not be a
permitted use in that district. The determination of relative nonconformance of
a proposed use with respect to the previous lawful nonconforming use shall be
at the discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The proposed use shall be
subject to all the requirements applying to that use in the district, including
parking, signage and all other aspects of the site. Where the use of a lawful
nonconforming building or structure is changed to a less intensive lawful
nonconforming use, it may not be changed back to the previous lawful
nonconforming use or to another less intensive lawful nonconforming use.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.037 RECONSTRUCTION AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Reconstruction or repair can result in a complete removal or teardown
of a structure provided the reconstruction or restoration work does not
increase the footprint of the existing structure.
   (B)   All such restoration must be started within a period of one year of
the time of such damage and diligently pursued to completion. The Zoning Board
of Appeals may extend the period of time for restoration of any such building
or structure when a bona fide emergency renders it impossible to make the
restoration of the building or structure within the required time period. No
fee shall be charged for an appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals under the
provisions of this section. Any basements, large holes, etc. remaining on the
site after removal of the structure shall be filled in and leveled within 90
days of removal of the structure.
   (C)   Residential structures in the commercial district are exempt from
these requirements.
   (D)   Residential structures undergoing reconstruction or restoration for
purposes of providing handicapped facilities are exempt from these
requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.038 PLANS ALREADY FILED.
   In any case where plans and specifications for a building or structure,
which would conform with the zoning regulations prior to the date of this
chapter or any amendment thereof have been filed, and where a building permit
for such building or structure has been issued and construction work started at
the effective date of this chapter or amendment, such work may proceed,
provided it is completed within one year.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.039 DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever changes occur in the boundaries of Zoning Districts, the provisions
of this chapter shall apply to any uses or parcels that become nonconforming as
a result of the boundary changes.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.040 REGULATION OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   Interpretation. Should any question arise concerning the interpretation of
any provision of the Regulation of Nonconformities Table (§
153.043, Table 10 - Nonconforming Situations and Actions) or if a situation is
encountered which was not anticipated by the Table, the question shall be
submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals for their interpretation, which shall
be final.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.041 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   In any district where residential dwellings are permitted, a single-family
dwelling and the accessory buildings may be erected on any single legal lot of
record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter. Yard
dimensions shall conform to the regulations for the district in which the lot
is located. No existing conforming lots may be changed to nonconforming lots.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.042 INVENTORY OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   The village Zoning Administrator is hereby required to establish and
maintain an inventory of legal nonconformities known to exist in the Village of
Sebewaing. This inventory should not list illegal nonconformities. Illegal
nonconformities are violations of the chapter and should be kept in the active
files of the Zoning Administrator. In theory, the inventory of legal
nonconformities should only expand if a Zoning Board of Appeals action allowing
the nonconformity is issued. All listed properties shall also be identified on
a large-scale map of the village which shall be available for public
inspection. Each listing in the inventory of nonconformities shall include the
following information:
   (A)   Date each parcel listed on inventory;
   (B)   Parcel identification number;
   (C)   Property address;
   (D)   Current owner(s);
   (E)   Property description;
   (F)   Parcel dimensions;
   (G)   Sketch with dimensions and setbacks of buildings, structures, and
parking areas on the parcel;
   (H)   Current zoning district; and
   (I)   Current use of property.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.043 ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES BY ACQUISITION.
   In accordance with, P.A.110 of 2006, as amended, the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, the Village Council may from time to time, acquire properties on
which nonconforming uses or structures are located, by condemnation or
otherwise, and may remove such uses or develop the property for a public use.
The net cost of such acquisition may be made a special assessment against a
benefit district or may be paid from other sources of revenue legally available
to the village.
Table 10 - Nonconforming Situations and Actions
     If           If Damaged More If Damaged Less Change in Use  Remodeling,
Type Discontinued Than SEV        Than SEV        (including new Maintenance,
     for 6 Months                                 building)      Code Work
Table 10 - Nonconforming Situations and Actions
                                                    Change in
             If           If Damaged   If Damaged   Use          Remodeling,
Type         Discontinued More Than    Less Than    (including   Maintenance,
             for 6 Months SEV          SEV          new          Code Work
                                                    building)
                                                    Not
Illegal                                             permitted    Property must
nonconformin NA           NA           NA           unless use   be kept in
g parcel                                            is           safe condition
                                                    conforming
Illegal                                             Not
nonconformin May not be                             permitted    Property must
g use of     resumed      NA           NA           unless use   be kept in
land                                                becomes      safe condition
                                                    conforming
Illegal                                May repair   Not
nonconformin              Use must     but must     permitted    Permitted so
g use of     May not be   stop and may reduce       unless use   long as use is
building or  resumed      not be       degree of    becomes      not expanded
structure                 resumed      nonconforman conforming
                                       ce
                          Building
Illegal                   must be      May repair   New use and  Permitted, but
nonconformin              rebuilt to   but must     new building may not create
g dimensions NA           fully comply reduce       must adhere  any greater
or setback                with         degree of    to ALL       degree of
of building               applicable   nonconforman district     nonconforman
or structure              district     ce           regulations  ce
                          regulations
Legal                                               Permitted,   Property must
nonconformin NA           NA           NA           but requires be kept in
g parcel                                            a variance   safe condition
                                                    Permitted,
Legal                                               but must     Property must
nonconformin May not be   NA           NA           reduce       be kept in
g use of     resumed                                degree of    safe condition
land                                                nonconforman
                                                    ce
Legal                     May rebuild               Permitted,
nonconformin              if all plans May repair   but must     Permitted so
g use of     May not be   meet all     to pre-      produce      long as use is
building or  resumed      OTHER        damage       degree of    not expanded
structure                 district     status       nonconforman
                          regulations               ce
Legal                     May rebuild                            Permitted, but
nonconformin              but must     May repair   Permitted,   may not create
g dimensions NA           reduce       to pre-      but requires any greater
or setback                degree of    damage       a variance   degree of
of building               nonconforman status                    nonconformance
or structure              ce
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
PARKING AND ACCESS
§ 153.050 INTENT.
   This section is intended to provide efficient and safe access management and
adequate parking area for specific uses as well as promote the efficient use of
land. It also seeks to prevent adverse environmental impacts of large paved
areas.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.051 CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN.
   Regulations in this section apply to all districts.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring to establish or change a parking area
shall submit plans to the Village Office and Zoning Administrator showing the
location, design, size, shape, landscaping, surfacing, marking, lighting,
drainage, curb cuts, entrances, exits, and any other features of the parking
lot. Any curb cuts, entrances, exits, drainage, and design shall have the
written approval of the Zoning Administrator with the comments of the Chief of
Police and Department of Public Works Superintendent, shall be presented for
site plan approval by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Standards. The design and construction of parking areas shall conform
to the following requirements:
      (1)   All spaces shall be laid out in the dimension of nine feet by 20
feet in size, or 180 square feet of space. This does not include access drives
and aisles. Designated handicapped spaces must be 12 feet wide by 20 feet long.
      (2)   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of
maneuvering lanes.
      (3)   Handicapped spaces. Off-street parking facilities required for
buildings shall be provided in accordance with the following table and
identified by signs as being reserved for disabled persons. Signs shall be
located approximately six feet above grade. Where a curb exists between a
parking lot surface and a sidewalk surface, an inclined approach or a curb cut
with a gradient not more than one foot in 12 feet and a width of not less than
four feet shall be provided for wheelchair access. Parking spaces for the
physically disabled shall be located as close as possible to walkways and
entrances. Signs shall be provided when necessary, indicating the direction of
travel to an accessible entrance.
      (4)   Required number of accessible spaces. Source: https://www.ada.gov/
restriping_parking/restriping2015.html
Table 11 - Required Number of Accessible Parking Spaces
Total in Parking Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Table 11 - Required Number of Accessible Parking Spaces
Total in Parking Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Up to 25             1
26 to 50             2
51 to 75             3
76 to 100            4
101 to 150           5
151 to 200           6
201 to 300           7
301 to 400           8
401 to 500           9
500 to 1,000         2% of total
Over 1,000           20, plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
      (5)   There shall be a curb or curb stop provided wherever an off-street
parking and loading area adjoins a public sidewalk right-of-way, or adjoining
property line. The curb or curb stop shall be designed to prevent any portion
of a vehicle from encroaching upon the sidewalk, right-of-way, or adjoining
property.
      (6)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking and loading
area shall be arranged to direct light away from adjoining premises. All light
poles and mounts shall be at a height of 15 feet or less.
      (7)   Each off-street parking driveway opening to a public street must be
approved by the agency having jurisdiction over the street following site plan
review by the Planning Commission. If the public street is paved, the driveway
must be paved for at least the length required for stacking area as defined
below. Lanes for entering and exiting traffic shall be clearly marked on the
pavement. Each driveway shall intersect a public street at a 90 degree angle.
      (8)   Each off-street parking driveway shall include an on-site stacking
area, which does not function as an access aisle for parking spaces, equivalent
to at least 5% of the spaces in the parking area.
      (9)   All off-street parking driveways shall have a clear vision area
unobstructed by accessory structures or plantings, within 20 feet of any public
street right-of-way, for a sight distance of 50 feet along the near edge of the
pavement in either direction.
      (10)   Except for parallel parking, all parking spaces shall be clearly
marked with striping which shall be maintained.
      (11)   Landscaping. Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy
required front, side and rear yards after approval of the parking plan layout,
provided that there shall be maintained a minimum landscaped setback of ten
feet between the nearest point of the off-street parking area, exclusive of
access driveways, and the nearest right-of-way line.
      (12)   Off-street parking areas shall be effectively screened on any side
which abuts a residentially zoned district or institutional use with a
continuous and completely obscuring wall or fence not less than four feet in
height and maintained in good condition.
      (13)   Access drives to and from a multifamily, commercial or industrial
parking area and all other drives to structures or entrances to structures on
the site shall be paved. Access drives are not part of the required parking
area. Design and construction of access drives must be reviewed and approved by
the Zoning Administrator and Department of Public Works Superintendent and in
the instance M-25, the Michigan Department of Transportation.
      (14)   Any off-street parking area shall be surfaced with an asphalt,
concrete, pavers, or similar durable and dustless surface, and shall be graded
and drained to dispose of all surface water.
   (C)   Shared access. The Planning Commission must require shared access
between and among uses where feasible, excluding single family dwelling uses.
Feasibility is determined with respect to the physical design of the site and
not the effort or costs involved with achieving joint access. This requirement
applies to driveways and access drives associated with site redevelopment or
new construction. In the case of new development, a joint driveway agreement
must be signed by all property owners involved prior to a construction permit
being issued. Driveways must be designed to allow joint access in the future,
where feasible, and an agreement to allow future use of the drive for joint
access must be signed at the time of site plan approval. Shared drives must be
shown on site plans at the time of review by the Planning Commission. Refusal
to design a site with provisions for joint access or refusal to participate in
a joint access agreement is justification for site plan denial by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Driveway closure. Nonconforming driveways, per this chapter, shall be
made to be less nonconforming at the time a site is redeveloped. Lessening the
degree of driveway nonconformance may include the Planning Commission requiring
closing a driveway or combining driveways or access points at the time of site
plan review.
   (E)   Occupancy. The occupancy of a building or any part of a building shall
not change it from one use to a use in another classification unless the
minimum parking requirements are provided for the new use. No building shall be
enlarged if the enlargement requires additional parking space, unless the
minimum requirements for off-street parking are provided.
   (F)   Count toward requirement. Parking spaces may count toward the
requirement for a parcel if they are located on it or on an adjoining parcel
where the farthest space is not over 500 feet from the nearest public entrance
to the principal building, with a continuous paved walkway between the lot and
entrance.
   (G)   Traffic study. The Planning Commission may request a traffic impact
study of an applicant for site plan review if the project is located on M-25 or
in any commercial or industrial zone.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.052 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Provisions shall be made for one usable off-street parking space for
each dwelling unit, plus one for each bedroom over one, up to three spaces.
Parking in residential zones is only permitted as an accessory use. In no case
is it intended that parking or access drives to parking spaces or facilities be
permitted as a principal use of any residentially zoned lot. Parking areas must
be on an approved surface of asphalt or concrete.
   (B)   Apartments require two spaces per dwelling unit. Each off-street
parking space shall have an area of not less than 162 square feet exclusive of
access drives or aisles. Parking areas must be on an approved surface of
asphalt or concrete. Dwelling units located above commercial uses shall provide
one space per unit that may be in conjunction with the parking provided for the
commercial use on the ground floor.
   (C)   For all institutional, public, or essential services in a residential
district, the required parking area shall be provided on the same lot with the
buildings or on a lot immediately adjacent, under the same ownership.
   (D)   The parking areas shall not be permitted in any required front yard
area, except in a defined driveway no wider than ten feet (excluding that
portion of the drive leading to a garage or parking area), or the width of a
garage serving the residence or site. However, in the case of a dwelling with a
driveway leading to a garage or parking area, the drive may be used for
parking. No driveway shall occupy more than 25% of a required front yard.
   (E)   No commercial repair work, commercial servicing, or selling of any
kind except for periodic garage or yard sales shall be conducted on parking
areas in residential districts, and no sign of any kind other than those
indicating entrances, exits, and conditions of use shall be erected thereon.
The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks or the repair of
vehicles is prohibited. No person shall park, place or otherwise store any item
in public parks or alleys within the village limits.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.053 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   Where parking space is required to be provided for any use, 10% of the
capacity of any publicly owned off-street parking facilities located within two
blocks may be deducted from the parking space required by this section, but the
requirements of this section shall not be reduced by more than 40%.
   (A)   Employee parking. Employee parking shall consist of one parking space
for every one employee on the largest shift. Handicapped parking shall be
required in accordance with § 153.051(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Parking surface. All parking shall be on an approved paved surface
with the exception of parking for campgrounds, RV parks, cemeteries, parks and
other outdoor recreational uses.
   (C)   Access drives. All access drives to and from a parking area and all
other access drives to structures or entrances to structures on the site shall
be paved. Access drives are not part of the required parking area. Design and
construction of access drives must be reviewed and approved by the village
staff and in the instance of Beck Street (M-25), the Michigan Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Mixed-use developments. In case of a situation where there is more
than one use in a single structure, the following off-street parking
regulations may apply:
 
Uses per Structure % of otherwise combined required parking
2                  80%
3                  75%
4                  70%
5 or more          65%
      In no case shall less than 65% be allowed
 
   (E)   Bicycle parking. If bicycle parking is provided, the racks must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   The bicycle frame and one wheel can be locked to the rack with a
high security, U-shaped shackle lock if both wheels are left on the bicycle;
and
      (2)   A bicycle six feet long can be securely held with its frame
supported so that the bicycle cannot be pushed or fall in a manner that will
damage the wheels or components.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.054 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Where parking space is required to be provided for any industrial use,
10% of the capacity of any publicly owned off-street parking facilities located
within two blocks may be deducted from the parking space required by this
section, but the industrial off-street parking requirements of this section
shall not be reduced by more than 40%.
   (B)   Off-street parking facilities shall be located as specified in this
section. For industrial uses, required parking shall be provided within 500
feet of the industrial building, which shall be measured from the nearest point
of the parking facility to the nearest point of the building such facility is
required to serve.
   (C)   Every parcel of land used as a public or private parking area in any
"I" District shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements or other industrial property line, unless screened by a solid
masonry wall.
   (D)   For every building, or part, hereafter erected, which is to be
occupied by manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods display, wholesale store
or warehouse, laundry, dry cleaning, or other uses similarly requiring the
receipt or distribution in vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained on the same premises off-street loading spaces in
relation to floor area as follows:
 
Up to 20,000 square feet      1 space
20,000 to 50,000 square feet  2 spaces
50,000 to 100,000 square feet 3 spaces
One additional space for each additional 100,000 square feet, or part thereof
and each loading space shall be at least 12 feet in width, and 88 feet in
length, and have a clearance of 14 feet above grade.
 
   (E)   Vehicle service garages shall contain one parking space for each 500
square feet of building floor area.
   (F)   Employee parking shall consist of one parking space for every one
employee on the most populated shift. Handicapped parking shall be required in
accordance with § 153.051(B) of this chapter.
   (G)   In the case of a building, structure, or premises, the use of which is
not specifically mentioned in §
153.055, the provisions for a use which is mentioned and to which the use in
question is similar, shall apply.
   (H)   In case of a situation where there is more than one use in a single
structure the following off-street parking regulations may apply:
 
Uses per Structure % of otherwise combined required parking
2                  80%
3                  75%
4                  70%
5 or more          65%
In no case shall less than 65% be allowed
 
   (I)   Parking surface. All parking shall be on an approved paved surface,
which can include pervious pavement, with the exception of parking for
campgrounds, RV parks, cemeteries, parks and other outdoor recreational uses.
   (J)   Access drives to and from a parking area and all other access drives
to structures or entrances to structures on the site shall be paved. Access
drives are not part of the required parking area. Design and construction of
access drives must be reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator and
Department of Public Works Superintendent and in the instance of M-25, the
Michigan Department of Transportation.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.055 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Parking or storage of motor vehicles shall be provided for in all
districts in connection with all industrial, commercial, business, trade,
institutional, recreational, or dwelling uses and similar uses. In the case of
a building, structure, or premises, the use of which is not specifically
mentioned, the provisions for a use which is mentioned and to which the use in
question is similar, shall apply. Handicapped parking shall be provided in
accordance with § 153.51(B).
   (B)   In case of a situation where there is more than one use in a single
structure the following off-street parking regulations may apply. The Planning
Commission shall have the power to reduce parking further in the case of shared
drives, shared parking or other circumstances where a reduction in parking will
contribute to the safety, function or overall site design.
 
Uses per Structure % of otherwise combined required parking
2                  80%
3                  75%
4                  70%
5 or more          65%
In no case shall less than 65% be allowed
 
   In cases where there is a single specified use, the following regulations
shall apply:
 
Use                              Required parking spaces
Personal services                Two parking spaces for each chair or booth
Places of public assembly        One parking space for each three seats
Commercial recreation (outdoor)  25% of lot area, but in no case less than 10
                                 parking spaces
Commercial recreational (indoor) One parking space for each 100 square feet of
                                 building floor space
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
SIGNS
§ 153.060 SIGNS.
   Any publicly displayed sign, symbol or notice on a premise to advertise the
business there transacted or name of person or firm conducting the business on
premises or directing to some other locale shall be regulated as follows.
   (A)   All plans for the erection of signs shall be submitted to the Village
Council for review and approval.
   (B)   Prior to the erection of a sign in the right-of-way of a county, state
or federal road, the sponsor of the project shall present the Zoning Board of
Appeals with a letter from the proper governmental agency having jurisdiction
indicating the sign does not impair the safety of the traffic movement using
the right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.061 INTENT.
   These standards are adopted to:
   (A)   Protect and enhance economic viability by assuring aesthetic appeal
for visitors and residents;
   (B)   Preserve public health, safety, and welfare;
   (C)   Minimize the adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private
property;
   (D)   Protect and enhance the scenic views and natural landscapes;
   (E)   Avoid obstacles, distractions, adverse lighting and reflection, or
traffic hazards, which impair a traveler's ability to see pedestrians, traffic
signs, or vehicles;
   (F)   Provide for the effectiveness of permitted signs;
   (G)   Encourage appropriate plants and landscaping material;
   (H)   Avoid excessive signage;
   (I)   Promote the use of aesthetically pleasing sign materials and colors;
   (J)   Enhance the effectiveness of necessary directional and warning signs;
and
   (K)   Require structurally safe signs.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.062 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Prior to construction or establishment of any sign, except as otherwise
specifically noted in this chapter, a permit shall be obtained from the
village. A sign permit shall become null and void if the work for which the
permit was issued has not been completed within a period of six months after
the date of the permit.
   (A)   Applications.  Application for a permit to construct or locate a
permanent sign shall be obtained from the Village Zoning Administrator. The
application shall include the following information.
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number of the landowner, developer, or
petitioner.
      (2)   A map of the property at a scale of 1"=10' showing the location and
type of existing structures on the site, property boundaries, location and type
of structures on adjacent properties, road rights-of-way, entrances and exits
onto the subject property and exact location of the proposed sign(s) with
setback from all structures and property lines. The drawings submitted for sign
permits must comply with all pertinent aspects of the approved site plan in
instances where a site plan is required.
      (3)   An elevation drawing of the proposed sign(s) depicting its design,
lettering, method of illumination and other relevant information. The
dimensions of the height and length, and width of the sign(s) and height
between ground elevation and the bottom of the sign, shall be noted.
      (4)   In the case of a wall sign, an elevation of the wall of the
building on which the sign is to be placed, including a depiction of the wall
sign at scale, shall be shown. The dimension of the building wall and the sign
shall be depicted.
      (5)   The proposed dates of construction and completion of the sign.
      (6)   Structural information necessary to comply with all Huron County
adopted building codes.
      (7)   In the case of a portable sign, the length of time the proposed
sign will be on the site.
      (8)   A fee shall be paid to the Village of Sebewaing for each sign
permit. A schedule of fees shall be established and amended from time to time
by the Village Council.
   (B)   Portable/temporary. All portable signs are subject to the restrictions
outlined in the following Table of Special Purpose Sign Regulations and subject
to the location restrictions for permanent signs in the applicable Zoning
District. Each such sign shall require a permit if it is to be posted more than
three days.
 
Zoning District          Duration of Permit Permits per Parcel
Residential (non-profit) 14 days            2 per year
AG/RES (all other)       14 days            1 per year
Commercial               30 days            2 per year
Industrial               30 days            2 per year
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.063 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Actions exempt from permitting. The following operations shall not be
considered as creating a sign and therefore shall not require a sign permit.
      (1)   Replacing copy. The changing of the advertising copy of an approved
painted or printed sign, where the sign structure does not change, or on a
theater marquee and similar approved signs which are specifically designed for
the use of replaceable copy.
      (2)   Maintenance. Painting, repainting, cleaning, light bulb
replacement, and other normal maintenance and repair of a sign or a sign
structure unless a structural change is made.
   (B)   Signs exempt from permitting. The following exempt signs are allowed
in all zoning districts within the village. All exempt signs shall comply with
setback provisions for the zoning district in which they are located.
      (1)   Construction signs. These signs may be displayed during the
construction period, commencing with the issuance of a building permit. The
signs shall have a maximum area of 20 square feet. The signs shall be confined
to the site of the construction and shall be removed no more than four days
after the beginning of the intended use of the project.
      (2)   Commercial rent/sale/lease.
         (a)   One sign advertising parcels of land or building for rent, lease
or sale, when located on land or building intended to be rented leased or sold;
and
         (b)   Not exceeding 24 square feet in area, six feet in height in C
and M zoning districts.
      (3)   Small signs.  In the REC, AG, R-1, and R-2 zoning districts, one
shall be no greater than six square feet or four feet in height. One sign is
permitted without a permit, provided it is located within the required yard. In
the C, MR, and M districts, signs and decorations smaller than one square foot
are permitted. Flags or banners anchored to permanently mounted poles that are
less than three square feet are permitted. Flags, banners and signs larger than
this shall be treated as portable/temporary signs.
      (4)   Crop identification. Crop identification signs in the AG district.
      (5)   Private traffic direction signs. Signs located on private property,
necessary to promote vehicular and pedestrian safety are exempt from
permitting. These may include directional signs, parking signs, and other
related signs at the discretion of the owner.
      (6)   Flags.  Two flags are allowed to be exempt from these regulations.
If additional flags will be displayed no more than the time period allowed for
a portable sign, the flag will be considered a portable sign and is subject to
portable sign regulations. If the flag will be displayed more than the time
period allowed for portable signs, the flag becomes a permanent sign and must
be calculated into the total sign area allowed for a parcel.
      (7)   Addresses. Address numbers, nameplates, including apartment units
and office suites) identifying the occupant or address of a parcel of land.
      (8)   Vehicle signs. Signs attached to legally licensed vehicles that are
used upon the highways for transporting persons, goods or equipment.
      (9)   Governmental signs. Traffic or other municipal signs including, but
not limited to, the following, legal notices, historic site designations,
municipal facility directional signs, street or traffic signs, railroad
crossing signs, danger and other emergency signs as may be approved by the
Village Council or any federal, state or county agency having jurisdiction over
the matter of the sign. Such signs may be located in any zoning district.
However, all signs on governmental property on which a municipal building is
located shall meet the C zoning district requirements stated herein.
      (10)   Community special event. Community special event signs approved by
the Village Council.
      (11)   Decorative signs. Signs of a decorative nature, not used for any
commercial purpose, provided that such signs shall be displayed for a period of
not more than 60 consecutive days, nor more than 60 total days in any one year.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.064 MEASUREMENT OF A SIGN.
   (A)   Measurement of a sign includes the entire area within a circle,
triangle, or parallelogram enclosing the extreme limits of writing,
representation, emblem, or any figure of similar character, together with any
frame or other material or color, forming an integral part of the display or
used to differentiate the sign from the background against which it is placed.
This excludes the necessary supports or uprights on which the sign is placed
but includes any sign tower.
   (B)   Where a sign has two or more faces, the area of all faces shall be
included in determining the area of the sign, except that where two such faces
are placed back to back and are at no point more than two feet from one
another, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area of one face if the two
faces are of equal area, or as the area of the larger face if the two faces are
of unequal area. In the case of a sphere, the total area of the sphere shall be
divided by four to determine the maximum permitted sign area.
   (C)   The height of a sign shall be measured from the average grade of the
lot at the setback line. If a sign includes a numeric address, the portion of
the sign containing the address numbers shall not be counted toward the total
square footage of the sign.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.065 TABLE OF SIGNS PERMITTED.
District Type # per parcel Size Setback Maximum
District     Type         # per parcel Size          Setback       Maximum
             Nondwelling  1            32 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
             use                                     required yard
             Small sign   1            6 sq. ft.     Within        4 ft.
Agricultural                                         required yard
(AG)         Wall sign    1            32 sq. ft.    Any wall      Any wall
             Portable/    1            32 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
             temp orary                              required yard
             Integral     1            No limit      Any wall or   Any wall or
             sign                                    roof          roof
             Nondwelling  1            32 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
Single-      use                                     required yard
Family and   Small sign   1            6 sq. ft.     Within        4 ft.
Multiple-                                            required yard
Family       Integral     2            24 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
Residential  sign                      each          required yard
(R-1, R-2,   Subdivision  2            24 sq. ft.    Within         
MR)                                                  required yard
             Portable/    1            32 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
             temp orary                              required yard
             Freestanding 1            32 sq. ft.    Within        10' at grade
             or monument                             required yard of lot line
                                       64 sq. ft. or Any wall      Height of
             Wall         1            70% of any    facing a road highest eave
                                       wall
             Marquee/cano              64 sq. ft. or               Height of
Commercial   py           1            70% of any    On structure  highest eave
(C)                                    wall
             Portable/    1            32 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
             temp orary                              required yard
             Street       See notes    See notes     See notes     NA
             banner
             Electronic                              Within
             message      1            32 sq. ft.    required yard 10 ft.
             board
                                       64 sq. ft. or Any wall      Any wall
             Wall         1            70% of any    Within        Height of
                                       wall facing a required yard highest eave
                                       road
Industrial   Freestanding                            Within        10' at the
(M)          or monument  1            32 sq. ft.    required yard grade of the
                                                                   lot line
             Roof         1            60 sq. ft.    Within        Roofline
                                                     required yard
             Portable/    1            32 sq. ft.    Within        5 ft.
             temp orary                              required yard
Recreation                                           Within        6' at the
(REC)        Monument     1            32 sq. ft.    required yard grade of the
                                                                   lot line
 
Notes to table:
   (A)   Through lots. In the case of through lots (a lot or lots held under
one ownership fronting on two streets), on a street, one sign may be allowed
per access.
   (B)   Corner lots. In the case of a corner lot, situated on two or more
streets, signs may be permitted on each street according to the regulations for
individual signs in the table. If the property owner chooses to only have
signage on one of the street frontages, additional bonus provisions will be
applied to the sign on the street where the sign is located. Bonus provisions
will be based on those available to the property owner had he chosen to locate
the sign on the unsigned street frontage.
   (C)   Business center. If there are three or more businesses located on the
same parcel, the Planning Commission shall determine the allowable sign size at
the site plan review stage.
   (D)   Sign type. No premises other than through or corner lots shall be
permitted more than two signs of different types or more than one sign of any
particular type.
   (E)   Upper floor occupation. Each business occupancy other than the ground
floor shall be entitled to one additional sign of the wall or flat type on the
structure or incorporated within a permitted projecting sign. These wall signs
shall not be larger than two-thirds (66%) of the permitted wall sign for the
first-floor business.
   (F)   Additional building entrance. One sign not exceeding four square feet
may be permitted per additional building entrance, exit or service window.
   (G)   Street banners. Fabric signs suspended across public streets
advertising a public entertainment or event. The location of each street banner
must be specifically approved by the Huron County Road Commission or the
Michigan Department of Transportation. A copy of the Road Commission or MDOT
permit must be on file with the Zoning Administrator prior to displaying the
banner. These signs may be displayed during the event being advertised and for
no more than 14 days before and four days after it.
   (H)   Political campaign signs.
      (1)   Signs up to an area of six square feet for each parcel in the AG,
RA-1, RA-2 and MR districts.
      (2)   Signs between six and 32 square feet require a temporary permit and
are not exempt from the requirements.
      (3)   These signs must be removed no more than ten days after the
election for which they were made.
   (I)   Electronic message boards. The message/symbol/picture change cycle of
a changeable message sign shall be not less than 30 seconds per message/symbol/
picture.
   (J)   Nondwelling use signs. In the AG, R-1, R-2, MR districts, only non-
dwelling use signs may be illuminated.
   (K)   Wall signs.  Signs constructed of fabric that are securely anchored to
a building so that no portion of the sign moves, are maintained in good repair
and meet all other provisions of this chapter are permitted. These signs are
considered permanent signs and must be within the maximum square footage and
placement allowed for such signs.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.066 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Signs are prohibited that:
   (A)   Are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring, or manner of
illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic control
device or emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Obstruct a motorist's view of any traffic signs, street sign, or
traffic signal.
   (C)   Are not properly anchored or secured to a building or the ground.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.067 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   There shall be no flashing, oscillating, or intermittent, illumination
of any sign located in the line of vision of a traffic control device or
interfering with safe vision along any roadway, especially at intersections.
   (B)   All illuminated signs shall be designed and located to prevent the
light from being cast upon adjoining residences and shall be located at least
150 feet from any residential use.
   (C)   The illumination of any sign shall not be detrimental or annoying to
surrounding property nor constitute a safety hazard, as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   In the AG, RA-1, RA-2, MR districts, only non-dwelling use signs may
be illuminated.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.068 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Intent. This chapter is intended to encourage the eventual elimination
of signs which do not comply with the chapter. The elimination of non-
conforming signs is as much a subject of health, safety, and welfare as is the
prohibition of new signs in violation of this chapter. Therefore, this chapter
attempts to realize the removal of non-conforming signs and to avoid any
unreasonable invasion of established property rights.
   (B)   Continuance. A nonconforming sign may be continued during the useful
life of the sign if it is maintained in good condition. It shall not, however,
be replaced by another nonconforming sign. It may not be structurally altered
so as to prolong the useful life of the sign. It may not be reestablished after
damage or destruction is the Department determines that the estimated cost of
reconstruction exceeds 50% of the estimated replacement costs.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.069 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Codes. All signs shall conform to the latest edition of the applicable
building and electrical codes.
   (B)   Fastenings. All signs must remain safe and secure during the period of
use. All parts of the Signs, including bolts and cables, shall remain painted,
and free of corrosion.
   (C)   Fire escapes. A sign may not obstruct a fire escape.
   (D)   Identification. All signs for which a permit is required shall
identify the name and operating telephone number of the person responsible for
the sign.
   (E)   Responsibility for compliance. The owner of the parcel on which a sign
is placed and the person maintaining the sign are each fully responsible for
the condition and the maintenance of the sign, and the area around the sign.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.070 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   A sign or sign insert shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the
premises upon which the sign is located when the business is no longer
conducted on the premises and the village determines the sign is in a condition
that is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the village. This may
include structural deficiencies or poor maintenance. If the owner or lessee
fails to remove it within 30 days of the termination of the business, or the
property owner fails to provide the village with a permit request for a
replacement sign within 180 days of the business no longer being conducted on
the premises, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, or a duly authorized
representative, may remove the sign at cost to the property owner. When a
successor to a defunct business agrees to maintain the signs as provided in
this code, this removal requirement shall not apply.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 153.080 INTENT, PURPOSE, AND PROCESS.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   The special uses that are designated for a particular zoning
district are generally complementary to the uses permitted by right. However,
because of their unique characteristics or more intensive natures, these uses
require special consideration of the welfare of adjacent properties and the
community as a whole. It is the intent of this chapter to provide a set of
procedures and standards for specific uses of land or structures that will
allow practical latitude for land use and at the same time, promote the intent
and purpose of this zoning chapter, and insure the land use or activity
authorized shall be compatible with adjacent uses of land, the natural
environment, and the capacities of public services and facilities affected by
the land uses.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall have the opportunity to impose
conditions upon each use which are deemed necessary for the protection of the
public welfare. Such conditions shall be based on standards in this chapter.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter provides procedures and standards for regulating
activities identified as uses by special use permit for each zoning district.
The purpose of designating special uses is to allow practical latitude for a
property owner or developer to use a parcel of land while maintaining
protection of the health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of
neighbors and the community at large.
   (C)   Process. Regulation of special uses may include up to three separate
steps. First is the possibility of a rezoning being required to accommodate the
special use. Second is the review of the site plan for the proposed use. And
third is the decision of whether a special use permit will be granted.
      (1)   Standards. During the special use permit process, various
considerations will be explored before approval of the site plan or the special
use permit. Some of these are defined in this chapter as additional site plan
review standards for various special uses. These standards are intended to
reduce the impact of a special use on surrounding properties. They are minimum
requirements that must always be met.
      (2)   Conditions. The Planning Commission may attach additional
conditions to the approval of the site plan or the special use permit. These
conditions must be based on requirements or concerns defined by this chapter.
      (3)   Permanence. Note that once a special use permit has been granted,
it may only be revoked if the conditions mentioned above, or other requirements
of this chapter, have been violated. Otherwise, the special use permit "runs
with the land" and is one of the rights that transfers when the parcel is
rented or sold. Therefore, this chapter does not provide for placement of any
time limit on a special use permit, except the special use permit may expire or
be revoked.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.081 HOW A SPECIAL USE PERMIT IS REVIEWED.
   (A)   Submission of application. The application package is to be submitted
to the Village Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Contents. The application package consists of a special use permit
application form completed in full by the applicant, accompanied by a fee as
established by the Village Council.
      (2)   Application deadline. The complete application package must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the Planning
Commission meeting at which it will be considered.
   (B)   Consideration of rezoning and special use permit.  In the event that
allowance of a desired use requires both a rezoning (change in zoning district
designation for the parcel) and a special use permit, both requests may be
submitted jointly and considered at a single meeting of the Planning
Commission, subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Separate. The rezoning shall be considered separately and prior to
the special use permit.
      (2)   Procedures. The chapter procedures for each decision shall be
followed as specified. Any special use permit approval must be conditioned upon
adoption of the rezoning by the Village Council, after submission to the County
Planning Commission.
      (3)   Standards. All standards required by this chapter shall be observed
for each action.
      (4)   Public hearings. The public shall be given the opportunity for
input on both the rezoning and special use decisions. Thus, two separate public
hearings shall be held at the same meeting.
   (C)   Planning Commission review and hearing. The special use permit
application package shall be the subject of both a site plan review and a
public hearing conducted by the Planning Commission. If the applicant wishes to
have the site plan review and special use permit considered at a single
Planning Commission meeting, the following process occurs:
      (1)   Public hearing on special use. The Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on the application as part of the meeting in which the special
use permit is considered.
         (a)   Notice. A notice of public hearing shall be mailed to all
parties specified in the Administration chapter and published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village not less than 15 days before the date of
such hearing.
         (b)   Delay at applicant’s request. If a site plan for a special use
has been denied, the applicant may ask that the special use permit, including
the public hearing, be postponed. However, postponing the hearing prior to the
hearing taking place, requires an additional notification of neighboring
property owners and newspaper publication of another notice. Therefore, the
applicant will be required to pay an additional application fee to offset the
Commission's added cost.
      (2)   Site plan review. The Planning Commission shall conduct a site plan
review for the proposed use, using the procedure and standards presented in the
site plan chapter and any specific standards identified for the special use by
this chapter. The Planning Commission may approve the site plan as presented,
approve it with conditions, deny it, or table approval of it to a specific
meeting date.
         (a)   Public input. The site plan review may be completed before
public input is heard on the question of granting the special use permit. This
is because the site plan review process is intended to be an objective review
of factual information to determine whether precise standards have been met.
However, the Planning Commission may choose to accept public comments or
questions relating only to design considerations of the site plan.
         (b)   If the site plan is denied. In the event the site plan is
denied, consideration of the special use permit shall still occur, including
the public hearing. The special use permit may still be approved with the
condition that site plan approval must be obtained before the special use
permit is valid.
      (3)   Consideration of special use permit. Following the close of the
public hearing, consideration of the special use permit shall take place.
         (a)   Open meeting. Note the Open Meetings Act requires this vote to
take place in an open public meeting.
         (b)   Prompt decision. In the interest of fairness and a timely
response for all concerned parties, the Planning Commission shall render their
decision on the special use permit during the same meeting in which the public
hearing is held, unless further information must be obtained before a decision
can be made. In such cases, action upon the special use permit may be tabled to
a public meeting of the Planning Commission to be held on a specific date which
is identified in the motion to table.
   (D)   Reapplication. An application for a special use permit that has been
denied, may not be resubmitted until one year after the date of denial has
passed.
   (E)   Terms of permit. A special use permit consists of a permit that
specifies the special use which is to be allowed and any conditions which were
attached by the Planning Commission. If a use established under a special use
permit is discontinued for a period of one year, the special use permit shall
expire. To reestablish the use after such expiration will require granting a
new special use permit, starting with a new application.
   (F)   Revocation. The privilege of a special use permit is subject to all
the conditions that have been attached to it during the process described
above. Except as noted in division (E) above, the permit remains valid as long
as all of those conditions are met and is transferable from owner to owner or
"runs with the land." However, the Planning Commission shall revoke any special
use permit after it has been proven the permit conditions have been violated.
      (1)   First notice. The Zoning Administrator shall send written notice of
a violation to the holder of the permit by certified mail. The notice shall
state that correction must be made within 30 days or the Planning Commission
will revoke the special use permit and order the use to cease.
      (2)   Considered nonconforming. From the time the Zoning Administrator's
notice of violation is issued, until compliance with all special use permit
conditions is restored, the use in question shall be treated as an unacceptable
nonconforming use.
      (3)   Planning Commission action. The Zoning Administrator shall notify
the Planning Commission of the violation of conditions of the special use
permit at the next regular Planning Commission meeting, and revocation of the
special use permit shall be considered then. The Planning Commission's meeting
will usually take place before the 30 day period for the first notice has
expired. In that case, the resolution to revoke the special use permit should
be worded so it takes effect only if compliance with all requirements is not
restored. It shall also include authorization for the Zoning Administrator to
order the permit holder to cease the permitted use if the violations are not
corrected by the end of the first notice period.
      (4)   Second notice and order. After expiration of the 30 day period, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the permit holder by certified mail the
special use permit has been revoked, and the use for which the permit was
granted must cease within 60 days from the date of this second notice.
      (5)   Enforcement of order. Failure to comply with the order to cease an
activity for which a special use permit has been revoked is a violation of this
chapter, subject to a civil infraction.
   (G)   Standards to consider when reviewing a special use permit.
      (1)   Standards attached to site plan review. Before approving or denying
a special use permit application, the Planning Commission reviews the site plan
for said use, to establish all applicable standards are satisfied. The site
plan review shall determine compliance with the applicable district
regulations, the site plan review standards and any applicable standards from
this chapter.
      (2)   Additional conditions. The Planning Commission may stipulate any
additional conditions or safeguards deemed necessary to achieve the objectives
of this chapter. These conditions may include but are not limited to changing
the parking, lighting or building configuration to promote compatibility on the
site. These may be defined during the site plan review process or during
consideration of whether to grant the special use permit. All conditions
attached to the approval of the site plan are also conditions of the special
use permit. These conditions, and the reasoning behind them, must be documented
in the Planning Commission's minutes, written on the site plan itself,
communicated to the applicant in writing, and based directly on the intent of
this chapter. The permit will not take effect until the conditions of approval
are accepted by the applicant, signified by the signatures on the site plan
itself, of both the applicant and the Planning Commission chairman.
      (3)   Enforcement of conditions. The breach of any condition shall be
cause for the Planning Commission to revoke a special use permit.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.082 AGRICULTURAL BULK COLLECTION, STORAGE, DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Each principal agribusiness use shall have frontage upon and access to
a thoroughfare having a primary or greater classification.
   (B)   The minimum lot area shall be 90,000 square feet and the minimum lot
width shall be 300 feet.
   (C)   A bulk collection, storage, distribution, and similar structure shall
be located not less than 50 feet from any right-of-way line and not less than
50 feet from any side or rear property line.
   (D)   The total coverage of all main and accessory buildings shall not
exceed 30% percent of the lot on which they are located.
   (E)   Noise or similar objectionable characteristics incidental to the
activity shall not be discernible beyond 500 feet from the boundaries of the
lot or premises from which the noise or objectionable characteristic is
generated.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.083 AUTOMOBILE BODY AND PAINT SHOPS, SERVICE AND REPAIR, QUICK OIL CHANGE
.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet for an automobile
service station or repair garage.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be not less than 100 feet.
   (C)   An automobile service station building shall be located not less than
50 feet from any right-of-way line and not less than 30 feet from any side or
rear lot line abutting residentially zoned property.
   (D)   All ingress and egress drives shall not be less than 15 feet in width.
   (E)   Curb cuts shall not be permitted where, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, they may produce a safety hazard to adjacent pedestrian or
vehicular traffic
   (F)   The entire lot, excluding the area occupied by a building, shall be
hard-surfaced with concrete or a plant-mixed bituminous material except
desirable landscaped areas which shall be separated from all paved areas by a
low barrier or curb.
   (G)   All lubrication equipment, motor vehicle washing equipment, hydraulic
hoists and pits shall be enclosed entirely within a building. All gasoline
pumps shall be located not less than 30 feet from any lot line, and shall be
arranged so motor vehicles shall not be supplied with gasoline or serviced
while parked upon or overhanging any public sidewalk, street or right-of-way.
   (H)   All outside storage areas for trash, used tires, auto parts and
similar items shall be enclosed by an eight-foot-high masonry wall and shall
comply with requirements for location of accessory buildings. Outside storage
or parking of each disabled, wrecked, or partially dismantled vehicle shall not
be permitted for a period exceeding three days.
   (I)   All exterior lighting, including signs, shall be erected and hooded so
as to shield the glare of such lights from view by adjacent properties.
   (J)   On a corner lot, both street frontage sides shall be subject to all
applicable front yard provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.084 CEMETERIES.
   Public or private, when occupying a site of not less than 20 acres, provided
that no building shall be closer than 50 feet from any property lines.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.085 COMMERCIAL RECREATION, INDOOR AND OUTDOOR.
   (A)   Indoor commercial recreation. Indoor commercial recreation uses
included, but are not limited to: putt putt courses, batting cages, bowling
alleys, ice or roller rinks, firearm ranges, indoor fields and racquet courts,
golf courses, and athletic clubs.
      (1)   The sites shall be located on, or shall have principal access from
a major thoroughfare or county primary road.
      (2)   The minimum site area shall be one acre.
      (3)   No building shall be located within 50 feet of a lot line of
adjoining residentially planned, zoned, or currently being used for residential
purposes.
      (4)   Whenever parking areas are adjacent to land in a R-1 or R-
2 district, a minimum of a five foot high wall shall be provided along the side
of the parking area adjacent to the residentially planned, zoned, or used land.
      (5)   Based on the nature of the use and nuisance potential to adjoining
property owners, the Planning Commission and the Village Council may stipulate
noise standards beyond those stipulated otherwise in this chapter.
      (6)   Operating hours for all uses shall be determined by the Planning
Commission and the Village Council based on the nature of the use and the
nuisance potential to adjoining property owners. The maximum range of hours for
all establishments is Monday through Sunday, from 7:00 a.m. to midnight.
   (B)   Outdoor commercial recreation. Outdoor Commercial recreation uses
shall include, but may not be limited to: archery, rifle ranges, miniature
golf, animal racing, go-carts, automobile or motorcycle track, off-road or mud
bogging, amphitheater, amusement and water park, drive-in theater, air gun or
survival games, amusement park, golf driving range, fairground, batting cages,
ski slope, and skate board park.
      (1)   The site shall be located on, or shall take principal access from a
major thoroughfare, or county primary road.
      (2)   All points of entrance or exit shall be no closer than 200 feet
from the intersection of any two streets or highways.
      (3)   No drive shall be closer to another drive by less than 75 feet and
the maximum number of drives shall be two.
      (4)   Minimum site area shall be based on the underlying district.
However, the Planning Commission and the Village Council may increase the
minimum required site area depending upon the described use and anticipated
extraneous impacts on adjoining properties. Such an increase will be for the
purpose of buffering, screening, and otherwise negating or limiting the
potential nuisance to adjacent properties caused by noise, dust, odor and the
like. To this end, the Planning Commission and the Village Council may require
additional information concerning the proposed use and the potential for
nuisance.
      (5)   No building or spectator seating area shall be located within 100
feet of a lot line of an adjoining residentially planned, zoned, or used
property.
      (6)   A landscaped buffer strip of no less than 100 feet shall be
provided along the property lines of all residentially planned, zoned, or used
land. However, the Planning Commission and the Village Council may reduce such
requirement by 50% if it is determined the potential for off-site nuisance is
limited.
      (7)   Whenever parking areas are adjacent to a residential district or
dwelling, a minimum of a five foot wall shall be provided along the side of the
parking area adjacent to such land.
      (8)   Racetracks of any sort shall be enclosed around the entire
periphery with and obscuring wall of at least eight feet in height.
      (9)   Golf driving ranges shall provide safety screening as deemed
reasonable and necessary by the Planning Commission and Village Council.
      (10)   Not more than 65% of the land area shall be covered by recreation
uses.
      (11)   Central loudspeakers/ paging systems are prohibited within 200
feet of residentially planned, zoned, or used property. Such systems shall not
be directed toward a residential area even if outside the 200 foot setback.
      (12)   Operating hours for all uses shall be determined by the Planning
Commission and the Village Council based on the nature of the use and the
nuisance potential to adjoining property owners. The maximum range of hours for
all establishments is Monday through Sunday, from 7:00 a.m. to midnight.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.086 COTTAGE INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to provide for limited
commercial and industrial uses in conjunction with a dwelling which are more
extensive than home occupations, but which, like home occupations, do not alter
or disturb the residential or rural nature of the premises or its surroundings.
Such limited commercial and industrial uses are known as cottage industries and
are defined within this chapter.
   (B)   Special use standards.
      (1)   The particular uses conducted by the cottage industry, and their
operation and appearance, shall not change or disturb the residential or rural
character of the premises or its surrounding.
      (2)   The use is environmentally sound regarding the project site and
region.
      (3)   No additional service demands will be created by the use.
   (C)   Specific standards.
      (1)   Not more than three employees working on the premises in addition
to the members of the family residing on the premises.
      (2)   The cottage industry shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to
the use of the premises for residential purposes.
      (3)   Multiple uses may be permitted within the cottage industry. The
total area occupied by all uses within the cottage industry, including storage,
shall not exceed 1,500 square feet. All aspects of the cottage industry shall
be located and conducted within a dwelling unit or enclosed accessory building
(s), except as specifically provided by the special use permit.
      (4)   One non-illuminated sign not exceeding eight square feet.
      (5)   The sale of merchandise not produced on the premises (except mail
order only businesses) shall be incidental and accessory to the merchandise or
service produced by the cottage industry and shall not be advertised in any
manner.
      (6)   No equipment or process used in the cottage industry shall create
noise, vibration, glare, fumes, dust, odors, smoke, electrical interference or
other impacts in excess of those customarily generated by single-family
residential uses in the neighborhood.
      (7)   No disabled, unlicensed or inoperable vehicles of any kind,
including trailers, semi cabs or tractor-trailers shall be stored outside.
      (8)   All outside storage and other evidence of a cottage industry shall
be screened from view from the road and all adjacent properties either by
fencing, berming or vegetation.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.087 DAY NURSERIES.
   (A)   Hours of operation. All activities must take place between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Group day care homes with hours of operation other
than these must apply to the Village Council.
   (B)   License. Proof of a valid Michigan day care license for a family or
group home (for existing licensees) or completed application (for new
licensees) is required prior to receiving a permit.
   (C)   Parking. Adequate off-street parking shall be maintained at all times
and shall not cause parking or traffic congestion on the primary or adjacent
streets or properties.
   (D)   Fencing. The outdoor play area must be protected from hazards, when
necessary, by a fence or natural barrier that is at least four foot in height.
For fence construction requirements, please see §
153.022. Must meet all State of Michigan licensing rules for child care
centers. https://www.michigan.gov/documents/lara/BCAL_PUB_8_3_16_523999_7.pdf
   (E)   Signage. One unlighted, wall-mounted sign not exceeding two square
feet in area is permitted.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.088 DRIVE-IN, DRIVE-THRU BUSINESS.
   (A)   The main and accessory buildings shall be set back a minimum of 30
feet from any adjacent right-of-way line or residential property line.
   (B)   Applicable off-street waiting areas shall be provided in accordance
with parking and loading regulations.
   (C)   The subject property shall have access to an arterial or collector
road.
   (D)   Exterior trash receptacles shall be provided and routinely emptied so
as to prevent the scattering of litter. All applications shall include a
description of a working plan for the cleanup of litter.
   (E)   All drive-thru window lanes shall be separated by curb from the
parking lot's interior driveways.
   (F)   Any exterior speaker/microphone system shall be arranged and/or
screened to prevent objectionable noise impact on adjoining properties.
   (G)   All exterior seating/play areas shall be completely enclosed by a
three-foot-high fence.
   (H)   No part of the subject use shall be located within 200 feet of any
residentially zoned land.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.089 HIGH-INTENSITY USES, WASTE TREATMENT, AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Standards in this section shall apply to all of the following uses.
These uses are:
      (1)   Solid waste transfer stations, processing, recycling facilities;
      (2)   Salvage yard, resource recovery, junk yard;
      (3)   Sewage treatment and disposal;
      (4)   Concrete and asphalt plants; and
      (5)   Bulk storage of refined petroleum products.
   (B)   General. All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance
with all applicable State of Michigan statutes. If any of the requirements of
this section are less than those in applicable state statutes, the state
requirements shall prevail. All permitted installations shall be maintained in
a neat, orderly condition so as to prevent injury to any single property and
individual, or to the community in general.
   (C)   Contractual agreements. The provisions of this section are not
intended to diminish or alter the enforceability or application of any separate
contractual agreements between the village and any individual or company which
owns a landfill or is involved with landfill operations.
   (D)   Tree buffers for junkyards. Buffers of tree cover shall be provided on
the periphery of the property. The buffer shall be no less than 50 feet in
width and may be natural vegetation or planted evergreens if the existing cover
is destroyed.
   (E)   No hazardous or toxic waste. No hazardous or toxic wastes, as defined
by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, may be
deposited or stored by any use in this group.
   (F)   Truck access. Routes for truck movement to and from the site shall be
identified by the Huron County Road Commission and the Village of Sebewaing.
Wear on public roads, traffic hazards, and encroachment of noise, dust, and
other nuisances upon adjacent uses must be considered.
   (G)   Activity restrictions. No open burning shall be permitted and all
industrial processes involving the use of equipment for cutting, compressing
(other than landfill compaction operations), or packaging shall be conducted
within a completely enclosed building.
   (H)   Fence requirements. The storage of junk should be screened by a solid
fence or wall at least eight feet in height. Such fence or wall shall be of
sound construction, painted, or otherwise finished neatly and inconspicuously.
All activities shall be confined within the fenced in area. There shall be no
stacking of material above the height of the fence or wall, except that
moveable equipment used on the site may exceed the wall or fence height. No
equipment, material, signs, or lighting shall be used or stored outside the
fenced in area. Aesthetic and structural qualities of fencing shall be
regulated by the Planning Commission at the time of site plan review.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.090 INSTITUTIONS: RELIGIOUS, EDUCATIONAL, SOCIAL, HUMAN CARE, RETREATS,
STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL CARE SEVEN THROUGH 20 PEOPLE.
   Institutions are subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Direct ingress and egress shall be from a paved road unless determined
to be unnecessary by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The buildings on the site shall be set back from abutting properties
zoned and used for residential use not less than 50 feet.
   (C)   Buildings of greater than the maximum height allowed in the zoning
district that a religious institution is located in may be allowed, provided
that front, side and rear yards are increased above the minimum requirements by
one foot of building that exceeds the maximum height allowed.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.091 KENNELS AND VETERINARY CLINICS.
   (A)   All kennels shall be operated in conformance with all county and state
regulations, permits being valid no longer than one year.
   (B)   For dog kennels, the minimum lot size shall be one-half acre for the
first three dogs and an additional one-half acre for each three additional
animals.
   (C)   Buildings wherein animals are kept, animal runs, and/or exercise areas
shall not be located nearer than 30 feet to any adjacent occupied dwelling or
any adjacent building used by the public, and shall not be located in any
required front, rear or side yard setback area.
   (D)   Such facilities shall be subject to any other reasonable conditions
and requirements necessary to ensure against the occurrence of any possible
nuisance (i.e., fencing, soundproofing, sanitary requirements, buffering).
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.092 LIGHT MANUFACTURING WITHIN THE BUILDING.
   (A)   All activities related to the business must be contained within the
building including storage of materials and products.
   (B)   The business may not create any noise, emissions, effluent, or other
evidence of a manufacturing activity taking place within the building.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.093 MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks, subject to the requirements established
and regulated by the Mobile Home Commission rules, and the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Clubhouse, swimming pool, playgrounds, common areas and recreation
facilities for the use of mobile home park residents.
      (3)   Accessory uses or structures such as manufactured home park
business office, laundry facilities, and home occupations otherwise permitted
in residential districts under this section.
      (4)   Public service installation.
   (B)   Internal roads. 
      (1)   Internal roads shall have access to a public thoroughfare or shall
be connected to a public thoroughfare by a permanent easement. The easement
shall be recorded before an internal road is approved by the department. Sole
access by an alley is prohibited.
      (2)   Dead end internal roads shall terminate with a paved turning radius
of 50 feet. Parking shall not be permitted within the turning area, which shall
be posted within the turning area.
      (3)   A safe-sight distance of 250 feet shall be provided at
intersections.
      (4)   Offsets at intersections, or intersections of more than two
internal roads are prohibited.
      (5)   Internal roads shall have driving surfaces with widths not less
than the following:
         (a)   No parking, 21 feet.
         (b)   Parallel parking, one side, 31 feet.
         (c)   Parallel parking, two sides, 41 feet.
      (6)   All entrances to new communities or new entrances to expanded
communities shall be a minimum of 33 feet in width of the pavement. The
entrance shall consist of an ingress lane and a left and right egress turning
lane at the point of intersection between a public road and the community's
internal road and shall be constructed as follows:
         (a)   All turning lanes shall be a minimum of 11 feet in width and 60
feet in depth measured from the edge of the pavement of the public road into
the community.
         (b)   The turning lane system shall be tapered into the community
internal road system commencing at a minimum depth of 60 feet.
         (c)   The ingress and right egress turning lanes of the ingress and
egress road shall connect to the public road and shall have a radius determined
by the local public road authority. The intersection of the public road and
ingress and egress road shall not have squared corners.
         (d)   Alternative designs that provide for adequate ingress and egress
shall be approved by the Road Commission and Manufactured Housing Commission.
      (7)   An internal road shall be constructed of concrete, bituminous
asphalt, or, where permitted by local regulations, compacted road gravel in
compliance with the standards of the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO), which is adopted by reference in these rules
and is available for inspection at the Michigan Department of Consumer and
Industry Services, Bureau of Construction Codes.
      (8)   The community developer may use other suitable material of equal
quality if approved by the department.
      (9)   A developer may install curbing on all internal roads. If curbing
is used, it shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt.
      (10)   Speed limits on community internal roads shall be posted at a
minimum at all community entrances intersecting public roads within one hundred
(100') feet of the entrance or before the first intersection, and shall be
enforced in compliance with the requirements of 1949 PA 300, M.C.L. §§ 257.1 et
seq.
      (11)   All internal roads may be clearly marked with appropriate traffic
signs, except that all community egress roads shall be clearly marked with a
regulation stop sign at the point of intersection with a public road.
      (12)   Internal roads shall be named and so identified by signs located
at all internal road intersections and at public roads.
      (13)   Signs bearing the words "Children Playing" shall be appropriately
located on all internal roads adjacent to recreational and playground areas.
      (14)   Vehicle parking.
         (a)   All home sites shall be provided with two parking spaces at the
home site. Vehicle parking shall be in compliance with both of the following
provisions:
            1.   The parking spaces may be either in tandem or side by side. If
spaces are in tandem, then the width shall not be less than ten feet and the
combined length shall not be less than 40 feet. If spaces are side by side,
then the combined width of the two parking spaces shall not be less than 20
feet and the length shall not be less than 20 feet. In either method, the
length shall be measured from the closest edge of the back of the curb, the
paving surface, or the common sidewalk, if provided.
            2.   A parking space shall be hard surfaced.
         (b)   Additional parking facilities.
            1.   A minimum of one parking space for every three home sites
shall be provided for visitor parking. Visitor parking shall be located within
500 feet of the home sites the parking is intended to serve. The 500 feet shall
be measured along a road or sidewalk.
            2.   If parking bays are provided, they shall contain individual
spaces that have a clear parking width of ten feet and a clear length of 20
feet.
   (C)   Illumination. All streets and sidewalk and areas open to travel by
mobile home park residents shall be illuminated as follows:
      (1)   Access points to public thoroughfares shall be lighted. If the
public thoroughfare is lighted, the illumination level shall not exceed the
average illumination level in foot candles of an adjacent illuminated public
thoroughfare.
      (2)   At all street intersections and designated pedestrian crosswalks
the minimum illumination shall be not less than 0.15 foot-candles.
      (3)   All streets, parking bays and sidewalks shall be illuminated at no
less than 0.05 foot-candles.
      (4)   If a central park, mailbox, or park directory, or both are provided
they shall be illuminated by not less than 3.15 horizontal foot candles.
      (5)   All lighting shall be located and shielded so as to direct the
light away from premises abutting the mobile home park.
   (D)   Mobile home installation. Installation of mobile homes upon each
mobile home site shall be accomplished in accordance with Part 6 of the
Manufactured Housing Commission rules. All mobile homes shall be connected to
utilities and shall be skirted and anchored in accordance with Part 6 of the
Manufactured Housing Commission rules.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.094 MINISTORAGE.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size shall be one-half acre. The
minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   (B)   Construction. Storage buildings shall be of a consistent design and
construction; storage buildings shall be separated by access aisles of a
minimum width of 15 feet, as measured from building front to building front.
   (C)   Store inside. All items shall be stored inside an enclosed facility.
   (D)   Lighting. Lighting shall be provided and shall be located so as to
illuminate access to each storage unit. Such lighting shall be reflected away
from any adjacent residential use.
   (E)   Access. All access aisles and entrances to the site shall be paved
with asphalt or concrete with appropriate stormwater drainage. Where possible,
access to individual units shall face the interior of the site to avoid
perimeter traffic.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.095 OUTDOOR SALES AND SERVICE, BODY SHOPS, TOWING, OTHER PERMANENT
OUTDOOR USES.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet for a body shop,
automobile service station, or repair garage.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be not less than 100 feet.
   (C)   An automobile service station building shall be located not less than
50 feet from any right-of-way line and not less than 30 feet from any side or
rear lot line abutting residentially zoned property.
   (D)   Ingress and egress drives shall not be less than 15 feet in width.
   (E)   Curb cuts shall not be permitted where, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, they may produce a safety hazard to adjacent pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
   (F)   The entire lot, excluding the area occupied by a building, shall be
hard-surfaced with concrete or a plant-mixed bituminous material except
desirable landscaped areas which shall be separated from all paved areas by a
low barrier or curb.
   (G)   All lubrication equipment, motor vehicle washing equipment, hydraulic
hoists and pits shall be enclosed entirely within a building. All gasoline
pumps shall be located not less than 30 feet from any lot line, and shall be
arranged so motor vehicles shall not be supplied with gasoline or serviced
while parked upon or overhanging any public sidewalk, street or right-of-way.
   (H)   All outside storage areas for trash, used tires, auto parts and
similar items shall be enclosed by an eight-foot-high masonry wall and shall
comply with requirements for location of accessory buildings. Outside storage
or parking of each disabled, wrecked, or partially dismantled vehicle shall not
be permitted for a period exceeding three days.
   (I)   All exterior lighting, including signs, shall be erected and hooded so
as to shield the glare of such lights from view by adjacent properties.
   (J)   On a corner lot, both street frontage sides shall be subject to all
applicable front yard provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.096 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to encourage innovation in land use
patterns and variety in design for development of large parcels as well as
encouraging economy and efficiency in provision of public services, the use of
land, natural resources and energy. These regulations provide flexibility for
developers while protecting public values.
   (B)   Permitted uses and standards.
      (1)   Dwelling units in detached, semi-detached, attached, or multiple-
family dwellings or any combination thereof, along with customary accessory
detached uses and structures are permitted in a PUD. Site condominium projects
(Act 59 of 1978) established after the effective date of this chapter shall be
designated as a PUD.
      (2)   Commercial uses, limited to those set forth in the commercial
district of the Village of Sebewaing Zoning Ordinance and specifically approved
by the Planning Commission, are permitted in the PUD, provided that such uses
are designed to be compatible and harmoniously incorporated into the overall
design of the PUD.
      (3)   Non-residential uses of a religious, cultural, or recreational
character are permitted in a PUD provided they are compatibly and harmoniously
incorporated into the overall design of the PUD.
   (C)   Density and parcel coverage. Minimum requirements set forth by the
original district in which the proposed PUD is located shall act as a general
guideline for the lot and yard regulations. To encourage flexibility and
creativity consistent with the intent of PUD regulations, the village may
permit specific departures from the requirements of the zoning ordinance for
yards and lots as a part of the approval process. Any regulatory modification
shall be approved through a finding by the Village Planning Commission; the
deviation shall result in a higher quality of development than would be
possible using conventional zoning methods.
   (D)   Open space.
      (1)   Required open space shall comprise no less than 40% of the total
lot or parcel area. Forest, wetland or other unique environmental areas may be
left in a natural state. Cropland may not be counted as landscaped open space,
nor may yard areas of individual residential lots be included. However,
landscaped yard areas for multiple dwellings or nonresidential uses may be
included. Areas covered with buildings, streets, parking lots, driveways and
other paved surfaces are not considered open space.
      (2)   Development in dedicated open space areas may include a
recreational trail, picnic area, children's play area, greenway, farm or linear
park, but any structures constructed incidental to such uses shall not exceed,
in the aggregate, 10% of the required open space area.
      (3)   The dedicated open space shall be set aside by the developer
through an irrevocable conveyance that is found acceptable to the village, such
as: recorded deed restrictions, restrictive covenants conservation easements,
plat dedication, or other legal means that runs with the land. Such conveyance
shall assure the open space will be protected from all forms of development,
except as shown on an approved site plan, and shall never be changed to another
use. Such conveyance shall indicate the proposed allowable use(s) of the
dedicated open space. The village may require the inclusion of open space
restrictions that prohibit the following:
         (a)   Activity that may cause risk of soil erosion or threaten any
living plant material;
         (b)   Cutting or removal of live plant material except for removal of
dying or diseased vegetation;
         (c)   Use of motorized off-road vehicles;
         (d)   Cutting, filling or removal of vegetation from wetland areas;
         (e)   Use of pesticides, herbicides or fertilizers within or adjacent
to wetlands.
   (E)   Failure to maintain open space.  
      (1)   If the developer fails to maintain the common open space in
reasonable order and condition in accordance with the plan, the Planning
Commission may serve written notice upon such organization or upon the
residents of the planned unit development setting forth the manner in which the
organization has failed to maintain the common open space in reasonable
condition. The notice shall include a demand that such deficiencies of
maintenance be remedied within 30 days and shall state the date and place of a
hearing thereon, which shall be held within 14 days of the notice.
      (2)   At the hearing the Planning Commission may modify the terms of the
original notice as to the deficiencies and may give an extension of time within
which they shall be remedied. If the deficiencies set forth in the original
notice or in the modifications are not remedied within the 30 days or any
extension, the village, in order to preserve the taxable values of the
properties within the planned unit development and to prevent the common open
space from becoming a public nuisance, may enter upon the common open space and
maintain it for a period of one year. The entry and maintenance shall not vest
in the public any right to use the common open space, except when the open
space is voluntarily dedicated to the public by the owners.
      (3)   Before the expiration of the organization responsible for the
maintenance of the common open space, a public hearing shall be scheduled upon
notice to such organization or to the residents of the planned unit
development, to be held by the Planning Commission at which hearing the
organization or the residents of the planned unit development shall show cause
why the maintenance by the village shall not, at the election of the Planning
Commission continue for a succeeding year. If the Planning Commission
determines the organization is not ready or willing or able to maintain the
common open space in a good, clean, and safe condition, the Village Council, in
its discretion may continue to maintain the open space, subject to a similar
hearing and determination in the next succeeding year.
      (4)   The cost of such maintenance by the village shall be proportionally
assessed against the properties within the planned unit development that have a
right of enjoyment of the common open space and shall become a tax lien on the
properties. The village, at the time of entering upon the common open space for
the purposes of maintenance, shall file a notice of the lien in the office of
the county recorded upon the properties affected by the lien within the planned
unit development.
   (F)   Environmental standards. Environmental design criteria in a PUD shall
include the following: the preservation of trees, groves, waterways, scenic
points, historic spots, and other community assets and landmarks. If animal or
plant habitats of significant value exist on the site, the village, as a
condition of approval, may require the PUD plan preserve these areas in a
natural state and adequately protect them as nature preserves or limited access
areas.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.097 PUBLICLY OWNED BUILDINGS, PUBLIC UTILITY TRANSFORMER STATIONS, AND
SUBSTATIONS.
   (A)   All buildings shall be harmonious in appearance with the surrounding
residential area and shall be similar in design and appearance to any other
buildings on the same site development.
   (B)   Where mechanical equipment is located in the open air, it shall be
screened from the surrounding residential area by suitable plant material. On
residential lots, electrical, gas and cable boxes shall be located behind the
front line of the principal structure in the side or rear yard and in some
cases may be required to be fenced for safety.
   (C)   All buildings housing mechanical equipment shall be landscaped and
maintained to harmonize with the surrounding area.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.098 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK, CAMPGROUND.
   (A)   Occupancy. Spaces in RV parks or campgrounds may be used by motor
homes, travel trailers, campers, tents or other short-term housing or shelter
arrangements.
   (B)   Regulatory compliance required.  RV parks or campgrounds must maintain
compliance with all regulations of the Huron County Health Department and the
Michigan Department of Natural Resources which apply to such enterprises.
Failure to comply with any such regulation shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Greenbelt, fence and setback.  The entire perimeter of any RV park or
campground shall be enclosed by a fence at least four feet high. Further, there
shall be a greenbelt planting strip not less than 15 feet wide around the
entire site. Said greenbelt shall contain at least one straight or staggered
row of deciduous or evergreen trees, spaced not more than 20 feet apart and at
least two rows of deciduous or evergreen shrubs which will grow to an ultimate
height of at least six feet planted not more than six feet apart. All
individual campsites are to be setback at least 75 feet from any street right-
of-way or neighboring property line.
   (D)   Personal care facilities. Each RV park or campground shall include
men's and women's restroom and bathing facilities in all weather, heated
structures. These facilities shall include adequate water outlets, washbasins,
toilets, showers and waste containers. These facilities shall be provided
uniformly throughout the park at a ratio not less than one toilet and sink for
each eight camping or RV sites. These facilities shall be kept in good working
order and each structure shall be cleaned thoroughly daily.
   (E)   Individual campsite requirements. Each RV parking site or campsite
shall be a minimum of 1,200 square feet in area and shall include the following
amenities; an electrical power outlet, fixed facilities for cooking using
charcoal or wood as fuel with a fire that is not placed directly upon the
ground, unless in a specified metal fire ring in a specified location. Metal
trash container with a lid and volume of at least two cubic feet which shall be
emptied daily by park personnel to the solid waste facility and a gravel or
hard surfaced parking area of at least 200 square feet.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.099 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND ADULT MEDIA STORES.
   (A)   Intent. There are some uses that because of their very nature are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are grouped. Such uses may have deleterious
effects upon the adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is necessary
to ensure these adverse effects will not contribute to blighting or downgrade
the surrounding neighborhood. These special regulations are itemized in this
section. The primary control or regulation is for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses in any one area or next to residential zones or
certain institutional uses.
   (B)   Distance restrictions.
      (1)   No adult bookstore or entertainment use shall be located within
1,000 feet of a religious institution, school, public park, noncommercial
public assembly facility or public office building.
      (2)   The site shall not be adjacent to or within 500 feet of any
residential area or residential zone.
      (3)   The site shall not be within 1,000 feet of any other adult business
use.
   (C)   Window displays. Window displays, signs, decorative or structural
elements of buildings shall not include or convey specific examples of any
adult uses, are limited to a single sign and all such displays shall be part of
specific approvals for all the use/activity. Any alteration to the above media
shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Layout. The site layout, setback, structures and overall appearance
and function of the use shall be compatible with adjacent uses.
   (E)   Parking and lighting. All parking shall be situated in the front yard,
adjacent to and visible from a public road and shall be lighted. All entrances
and exits to the structure shall be lighted during the hours of operation.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.100 SHORT TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   The maximum occupancy will be based on two adult people per bedroom.
   (B)   The dwelling unit must meet all Huron County adopted residential
building, health department, and safety codes. The operator shall provide ample
off-street parking to accommodate occupant's vehicles.
   (C)   The appearance of the dwelling shall not conflict with the residential
character of the neighborhood.
   (D)   The structures shall be properly maintained, and kept in good repair,
in order the use in no way detracts from the general appearance of the
neighborhood.
   (E)   All garbage must be kept in a closed container and disposed of on a
regular weekly schedule.
   (F)   No sign shall be posted to advertise the availability of the short
term residential rental unit to the public.
   (G)   This applies to rentals of residential property for any time period
under six months, these regulations apply.
   (H)   Each premise must have been originally designed and constructed as a
single-family residence and must be occupied and operated by its owner. The
structure shall remain a residential structure; i.e. the kitchen shall not be
remodeled into a commercial kitchen.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.101 TEMPORARY INDOOR AND OUTDOOR USES.
   (A)   Exempt activities. School fundraising activities are exempt from the
special use permit requirements of this section. Private garage and yard sales,
as defined in this chapter, in the AG or any business district are exempt from
the special use permits requirements of this section.
   (B)   Evidence of ownership or permission. Evidence of ownership, lease, or
permission for use of any site for which a temporary permit or approval is
sought, must accompany all permit requests.
   (C)   Length of permit. A temporary permit may be granted by the Planning
Commission for a maximum of three consecutive months. Additional temporary
permits for the same proponent on the same site may be granted no sooner than
one month following the expiration of the previous permit. The total time
period for all temporary permits granted to one proponent shall not exceed six
months in one calendar year.
   (D)   Stuctures - outdoor uses. Structures for the display of outdoor sales
items are allowed provided they are not used for human shelter. Structures may
not be used for an indoor sales area. One structure for storage of sales items
is allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   It is no larger than 150 square feet;
      (2)   There is no foundation;
      (3)   No portion of the structure may become unattached or move as a
result of wind;
      (4)   It is anchored to withstand 30 pounds per square foot wind stress
factor; and
      (5)   Structures of any kind must be removed prior to expiration of the
permit.
   (E)   Structures - indoor uses.  Structures for the display of indoor sales
items are allowed provided they are not used for human shelter. One structure
for sales items is allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   There is no foundation;
      (2)   No portion of the structure may become unattached or move as a
result of wind;
      (3)   It is anchored to withstand 30 pounds per square foot wind stress
factor; and
      (4)   Structures of any kind must be removed prior to expiration of the
permit.
   (F)   Uses requiring an official site plan and Planning Commission review.
If the use is for greater than five days, within a 180 day period, a site plan
must be submitted to the Planning Commission, and all other provisions of this
section must be followed, but no fee is required. The owner of the property on
which the temporary use is located is responsible for providing the site plan
showing the temporary indoor or outdoor use and its conformance with chapter
requirements. This site plan may be an addition to the original plan for the
property. Any violations of the temporary use are the responsibility of the
owner of the property on which it is located.
      (1)   Overnight residing on temporary site prohibited. The temporary site
may not be occupied for more than 12 hours per day. In no event shall overnight
occupation be permitted.
      (2)   Sanitary facilities. Sites selling items for human consumption must
have access to hand washing and toilet facilities. Sites selling items not for
human consumption must have access to toilet facilities only.
      (3)   Display of goods. Display and sale of goods may not be within the
required yards for the zoning district.
   (G)   Uses not requiring an official site plan or Planning Commission
approval. Private temporary outdoor uses and those associated with nonprofit
organizations meeting the definition of NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS, in §
153.011, may be granted temporary use permits by the Zoning Administrator, at
no cost to the organization if:
      (1)   The use is for five days or less within a 180 day period;
      (2)   A drawing of the site and description of activity is provided;
      (3)   No structures for display, sale or storage remain on the site other
than during the hours of operation;
      (4)   The organization agrees by signature, to consent to the conditions
outlined by the Zoning Administrator for this temporary outdoor use;
      (5)   As a result of the addition of a temporary use, the number of
parking spaces shall not be reduced below the required number of parking spaces
for the temporary use and permanent use combined; and
      (6)   The temporary use location must meet all yard requirements of the
zone in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.102 WIND POWER.
   Please see the Michigan Guidelines for Wind Energy Systems as amended for
siting principles.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AMBIENT. Ambient is defined as the sound pressure level exceeded 90% of
the time or L90.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
      dB(A). The sound pressure level in decibels. Refers to the "a" weighted
scale defined by ANSI. A method for weighting the frequency spectrum to mimic
the human ear.
      DECIBEL. The unit of measure used to express the magnitude of sound
pressure and sound intensity.
      IEC. International Electrotechnical Commission. The IEC is the leading
global organization that prepares and publishes international standards for all
electrical, electronic and related technologies.
      ISO. International Organization for Standardization. ISO is a network of
the national standards institutes of 156 countries.
      ONSITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.  An onsite use wind energy system is
intended to primarily serve the needs of the consumer.
      ROTOR. An element of a wind energy system that acts as a multi-bladed
airfoil assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic energy directly
from the wind.
      SCADA TOWER. A freestanding tower containing instrumentation such as
anemometers that is designed to provide present moment wind data for use by the
supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system.
      SHADOW FLICKER. Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the
moving blade of a wind energy system casting shadows on the ground and
stationary objects, such as a window at a dwelling.   
      SOUND PRESSURE. Average rate at which sound energy is transmitted through
a unit area in a specified direction. The pressure of the sound measured at a
receiver.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure mapped to a logarithmic scale
and reported in decibels (dB).
      UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS. A utility grid wind energy system is
designed and built to provide electricity to the electric utility grid.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system which converts wind
energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator and
includes the turbine, blades, and tower as well as related electrical
equipment. This does not include wiring to connect the wind energy system to
the grid.
      WIND SITE ASSESSMENT. An assessment to determine the wind speeds at a
specific site and the feasibility of using that site for construction of a wind
energy system.
   (B)   Onsite use wind energy systems. An onsite use wind energy system is
intended to primarily serve the needs of the consumer. An onsite use wind
energy system with a tower higher than 65 feet shall be considered a special
land use. Onsite use wind energy systems with no towers or towers 65 feet or
less shall be a permitted use in all zoning classifications where structures of
any sort are allowed subject to the following requirements. Anemometer towers
more than 65 feet in height used to conduct a wind site assessment for possible
installation of an onsite use wind energy system shall also be a special land
use. Prior to the installation of an onsite use wind energy system with a tower
higher than 20 meters, an application for a special land use permit shall be
filed with the local government that will include:
      (1)   Applicant identification;
      (2)   A site plan;
      (3)   Documentation that sound pressure level, construction code, tower,
interconnection (if applicable), and safety requirements have been met; and
      (4)   Proof of the applicant's public liability insurance.
   (C)   Construction of on site use wind energy systems.
      (1)   Property setback. The distance between an on site use wind energy
system and the owner's property lines shall be at least 1 ½ times the height of
the wind energy system tower including the top of the blade in its vertical
position. The distance between an anemometer tower and the owner's property
lines shall be at least 1½ times the height of the tower. No part of the wind
energy system structure, including guy wire anchors, may extend closer than ten
feet to the owner's property lines.
      (2)   Sound pressure level.  On-site use wind energy systems shall not
exceed 55 dB(A) at the property line closest to the wind energy system. This
sound pressure level may be exceeded during short-term events such as utility
outages and/or severe windstorms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds
55 dB(A), the standard shall be ambient dB(A) plus five dB(A).   
      (3)   Construction codes, towers, and interconnection standards. On-site
use wind energy systems, including towers shall comply with all applicable
state construction and electrical codes and local building permit requirements.
On-site use wind energy systems including towers shall comply with Federal
Aviation Administration requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act (Public
Act 23 of 1950, M.C.L.§§ 259.431 et seq.), the Michigan Tall Structures Act
(Public Act 259 of 1959, M.C.L. §§ 259.481 et seq.), and local jurisdiction
airport overlay zone regulations. An interconnected onsite use wind energy
system shall comply with Michigan Public Service Commission and Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission standards. Off-grid systems are exempt from this
requirement.
      (4)   Safety. An onsite use wind energy system shall have automatic
braking, governing, or a feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation or
over speeding. All wind towers shall have lightning protection. If a tower is
supported by guy wires, the wires shall be clearly visible to a height of at
least six feet above the guy wire anchors. The minimum vertical blade tip
clearance from grade shall be 20 feet for a wind energy system employing a
horizontal axis rotor.
   (D)   Wind site assessment for utility grid wind energy systems. Prior to
construction of a utility grid wind energy system, a wind site assessment is
conducted to determine the wind speeds and the feasibility of using the site.
Installation of anemometer towers also known as meteorological or "Met" towers
shall be considered a special land use. Prior to the installation of the tower,
an application for a special land use permit shall be filed with the local
government that will include:
      (1)   Applicant identification;
      (2)   A site plan;
      (3)   A copy of that portion of the applicant's lease with the landowner
granting authority to install the Met tower and requiring the applicant to
remove all equipment and restore the site after completion of the wind site
assessment; and
      (4)   Proof of the applicant's public liability insurance. The distance
from the center of a Met tower and the property lines between the leased
property and the non-leased property shall be at least the height of the Met
tower. Leased property can include more than one piece of property and the
requirement shall apply to the combined properties.
   (E)   Utility grid wind energy systems. A utility grid wind energy system is
designed and built to provide electricity to the electric utility grid. Utility
grid wind energy systems shall be considered a special land use. Prior to the
installation of a utility grid wind energy system, an application for a special
land use permit shall be filed with the local government and shall include the
following:
      (1)   Applicant identification. Applicant name, address, and contact
information.
      (2)   Project description. A general description of the proposed project
including a legal description of the property or properties on which the
project would be located and an anticipated construction schedule.
      (3)   Site plan. The site plan shall include maps showing the physical
features and land uses of the project area, both before and after construction
of the proposed project. The site plan shall include:
         (a)   The project area boundaries;
         (b)   The location, height, and dimensions of all existing and
proposed structures and fencing;
         (c)   The location, grades, and dimensions of all temporary and
permanent on-site and access roads from the nearest county or state-maintained
road;
         (d)   Existing topography;
         (e)   Water bodies, waterways, wetlands, and drainage channels; and
         (f)   All new infrastructure above ground related to the project.
      (4)   Insurance. Proof of the applicant's public liability insurance.
      (5)   Consent documents. Copies of any written waivers from neighboring
property owners.
      (6)   Sound pressure level. Copy of the modeling and analysis report.
      (7)   Certifications. Certification that the applicant has complied or
will comply with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. Copies
of all such permits and approvals that have been obtained or applied for should
be provided at time of the application.
      (8)   Visual impact.  Visual simulations of how the completed project
will look from four viewable angles.
      (9)   Environmental impact. Copy of the environmental impact analysis.
      (10)   Avian and wildlife impact. Copy of the avian and wildlife impact
analysis.
      (11)   Shadow flicker.  Copy of the shadow flicker analysis.
      (12)   Manufacturers' material safety data sheet(s). Documentation shall
include the type and quantity of all materials used in the operation of all
equipment including, but not limited to, all lubricants and coolants.
      (13)   Decommissioning. Copy of the decommissioning plan.
      (14)   Complaint resolution. Description of the complaint resolution
process.
      (15)   An applicant shall remit an application fee in the amount
specified in the fee schedule adopted by the local government. This schedule
shall be based on the cost of the application review and may be adjusted from
time to time.
   (F)   The utility grid wind energy system project shall meet the following
standards and requirements:
      (1)   Overlay zone. If the site of the proposed project is subject to an
overlay zone, the proposed project shall meet or exceed the applicable
standards in the overlay zone.
      (2)   Property setback.
         (a)   The distance between a utility grid wind energy system and the
property lines of adjacent non-leased properties shall be at least one rotor
radius away from the unleased property line unless otherwise agreed upon by the
abutting property owners of the leased and unleased property line.
         (b)   The distance between a utility grid wind energy system and the
property lines of adjacent leased properties may be zero.
         (c)   Where property is leased on both sides of a public right of way,
a wind energy system may be placed no closer than one rotor radius from the
closest edge of the right of way. Leased property can include more than one
piece of property and the requirement shall apply to the combined properties.
         (d)   The distance between a utility grid wind energy system and a
dwelling unit shall be at least 1,000 feet.
      (3)   SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) or meteorological
(Met) towers shall also comply with the property setback requirement. The
setback shall be at least the height of the SCADA or Met tower. An operations
and maintenance office building, a substation, or ancillary equipment shall
comply with any property setback requirement that may be applicable to that
type of building or equipment. Overhead transmission lines and power poles
shall comply with the setback requirements applicable to public utilities.   
      (4)   Sound pressure level. 
         (a)   The sound pressure level generated by a utility grid wind energy
system shall not exceed 55 dB(A) measured at the property lines between leased
and non-leased property. This sound pressure level shall not be exceeded for
more than three minutes in any hour of the day. If the ambient sound pressure
level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).   
         (b)   As part of the application and prior to installation, the
applicant shall provide modeling and analysis that will confirm that the
utility grid wind energy system will not exceed the maximum permitted sound
pressure levels. Modeling and analysis shall conform to IEC 61400 and ISO 9613.
After installation of the utility grid wind energy system, sound pressure level
measurements shall be done by a third party, qualified professional according
to the procedures in the most current version of ANSI S12.18. All sound
pressure levels shall be measured with a sound meter that meets or exceeds the
most current version of ANSI S1.4 specifications for a Type II sound meter.
Documentation of the sound pressure level measurements shall be provided to the
local government within 60 days of the commercial operation of the project.
      (5)   Construction codes, towers, and interconnection standards. Utility
grid wind energy systems including towers shall comply with all applicable
state construction and electrical codes and Huron County adopted building
permit requirements. Utility grid wind energy systems including towers shall
comply with Federal Aviation Administration requirements, the Michigan Airport
Zoning Act (Public Act 23 of 1950, M.C.L.§§ 259.431 et seq.), the Michigan Tall
Structures Act (Public Act 259 of 1959, M.C.L.§§ 259.481 et seq.), and local
jurisdiction airport overlay zone regulations. The minimum FAA lighting
standards shall not be exceeded. All tower lighting required by the FAA shall
be shielded to the extent possible to reduce glare and visibility from the
ground. The tower shaft shall not be illuminated unless required by the FAA.
Utility grid wind energy systems shall comply with applicable utility, Michigan
Public Service Commission, and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
interconnection standards.
      (6)   Safety. All utility grid wind energy systems shall be designed to
prevent unauthorized access to electrical and mechanical components and shall
have access doors that are kept securely locked at all times when service
personnel are not present. All spent lubricants and cooling fluids shall be
properly and safely removed in a timely manner from the site of the wind energy
system. A sign shall be posted near the tower or operations and maintenance
office building that will contain emergency contact information. Signage placed
at the road access shall be used to warn visitors about the potential danger of
falling ice. The minimum vertical blade tip clearance from grade shall be 20
feet for a wind energy system employing a horizontal axis rotor.
      (7)   Visual impact. Utility grid wind energy system projects shall use
tubular towers and all utility grid wind energy systems in a project shall be
finished in a single, non-reflective matte finished color. A project shall be
constructed using wind energy systems of similar design, size, operation, and
appearance throughout the project. No lettering, company insignia, advertising,
or graphics shall be on any part of the tower, hub, or blades. Nacelles may
have lettering that exhibits the manufacturer's and/or owner's identification.
The applicant shall avoid state or federal scenic areas and significant visual
resources listed in the local unit of government's comprehensive plan.
      (8)   Environmental impact. 
         (a)   The applicant shall have a third party, qualified professional
conduct an analysis to identify and assess any potential impacts on the natural
environment including, but not limited to wetlands and other fragile
ecosystems, historical and cultural sites, and antiquities. The applicant shall
take appropriate measures to minimize, eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts
identified in the analysis.
         (b)   The applicant shall identify and evaluate the significance of
any net effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation efforts. The
applicant shall comply with applicable parts of the Michigan Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection Act (Act 451 of 1994, M.C.L. §§ 324.101 et seq.)
including but not limited to Part 31 Water Resources Protection (M.C.L. §§
324.3101 et seq.), Part 91 Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control (M.C.L. §§
324.9101 et seq.) , Part 301 Inland Lakes and Streams (M.C.L. §§ 324.30101 et
seq.), Part 303 Wetlands (M.C.L. §§ 324.30301 et seq.), Part 323 Shoreland
Protection and Management (M.C.L. §§ 324.32301 et seq.), Part 325 Great Lakes
Submerged Lands (M.C.L. §§ 324.32501 et seq.), and Part 353 Sand Dunes
Protection and Management (M.C.L. §§ 324.35301 et seq.). The applicant shall be
responsible for making repairs to any public roads damaged by the construction
of the utility grid wind energy system.
      (9)   Avian and wildlife impact. The applicant shall have a third party,
qualified professional conduct an analysis to identify and assess any potential
impacts on wildlife and endangered species. The applicant shall take
appropriate measures to minimize, eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts
identified in the analysis. The applicant shall identify and evaluate the
significance of any net effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation
efforts.   
         (a)   Sites requiring special scrutiny include wildlife refuges, other
areas where birds are highly concentrated, bat hibernacula, wooded ridge tops
that attract wildlife, sites that are frequented by federally and/or state
listed endangered species of birds and bats, significant bird migration
pathways, and areas that have landscape features known to attract large numbers
of raptors.
         (b)   At a minimum, the analysis shall include a thorough review of
existing information regarding species and potential habitats in the vicinity
of the project area. Where appropriate, surveys for bats, raptors, and general
avian use should be conducted. The analysis shall include the potential effects
on species listed under the federal Endangered Species Act and Michigan's
Endangered Species Protection Law.   
         (c)   The analysis shall indicate whether a post construction wildlife
mortality study will be conducted and, if not, the reasons why such a study
does not need to be conducted. Power lines should be placed underground, when
feasible, to prevent avian collisions and electrocutions. All above-ground
lines, transformers, or conductors should comply with the Avian Power Line
Interaction Committee (APLIC, http://www.aplic.org/) published standards to
prevent avian mortality.
      (10)   Electromagnetic interference. No utility grid wind energy system
shall be installed in any location where its proximity to existing fixed
broadcast, retransmission, or reception antennae for radio, television, or
wireless phone or other personal communication systems would produce
electromagnetic interference with signal transmission or reception unless the
applicant provides a replacement signal to the affected party that will restore
reception to at least the level present before operation of the wind energy
system. No utility grid wind energy system shall be installed in any location
within the line of sight of an existing microwave communications link where
operation of the wind energy system is likely to produce electromagnetic
interference in the link's operation unless the interference is insignificant.
      (11)   Shadow flicker. The applicant shall conduct an analysis on
potential shadow flicker at occupied structures. The analysis shall identify
the locations of shadow flicker that may be caused by the project and the
expected durations of the flicker at these locations from sunrise to sunset
over the course of a year. The analysis shall identify problem areas where
shadow flicker may affect the occupants of the structures and describe measures
that shall be taken to eliminate or mitigate the problems.
      (12)   Decommissioning. The applicant shall submit a decommissioning
plan. The plan shall include:
         (a)   The anticipated life of the project;
         (b)   The estimated decommissioning costs net of salvage value in
current dollars;
         (c)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration; and
         (d)   The anticipated manner in which the project will be
decommissioned, and the site restored.
      (13)   Complaint resolution. The applicant shall develop a process to
resolve complaints from nearby residents concerning the construction or
operation of the project. The process may use an independent mediator or
arbitrator and shall include a time limit for acting on a complaint. The
process shall not preclude the local government from acting on a complaint.
During construction the applicant shall maintain and make available to nearby
residents a telephone number where a project representative can be reached
during normal business hours.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.103 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of these regulations is to
accommodate the communications needs of people while protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare of the community. These regulations will:
      (1)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to
the residents and businesses of the village;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through design and siting
standards;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent property from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
      (4)   Maximize the use of existing approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication facilities in order to reduce the
number of towers necessary to serve the community.
   (B)   District regulations.  A wireless communication facility shall require
a Huron County adopted building permit in all instances and may be permitted as
follows:
      (1)   All districts. A wireless service facility may locate on any
existing guyed tower, lattice tower, monopole, electric utility transmission
tower, fire tower or water tower, provided the installation of the new facility
does not increase the height of the existing structure except as provided in
the height regulations in this chapter. Such installations shall be permitted
by right in all zoning districts and be permitted through village staff review.
      (2)   Towers in residentially and agriculturally zoned areas are only
allowed if they are:
         (a)   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed in the rear yard of
parcels.
         (b)   Towers supporting commercial antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed only in the following
locations by right and shall be permitted through the site plan review
procedures outlined in this chapter:
         (c)   Church sites, when camouflaged as steeples or bell towers;
         (d)   Park sites, when compatible with the nature of the park; and,
         (e)   Government, school, utility and institutional sites, according
to the statement of priority of users and minimum requirements for use of
village owned properties.
         (f)   Wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls and existing
towers may be approved by the village staff provided the antennas meet the
requirements of this chapter after submittal of a final site plan and a report
prepared by a licensed professional engineer, surveyor or architect indicating
the existing structure or tower's suitability to accept the antenna and the
proposed method for affixing the antenna to the structure. Complete details of
all fixtures and couplings and the precise point of attachment shall be
indicated.
      (3)   Towers in agriculturally, commercially or industrially zoned areas
are allowed by right if they qualify as towers allowed by right in
residentially zoned areas.
      (4)   Newly constructed towers in agriculturally, commercially or
industrially zoned areas are allowed by special use permit under the following
situations:
         (a)   The Planning Commission finds the telecommunications equipment
planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or
approved tower or building within a one and one half mile radius of the
proposed tower location due to one or more of the following reasons:
            1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced,
modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a
reasonable cost.
            2.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
            3.   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonable as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer.
            4.   Other unforeseen reasons make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
   (C)   Colocation.
      (1)   Licensed carriers shall share wireless service facilities and sites
where feasible and appropriate, thereby reducing the number of wireless service
facilities that are stand-alone facilities. All applicants for a special use
permit for a wireless service facility shall demonstrate a good faith effort to
co-locate with other carriers. Such good faith effort includes:
         (a)   A survey of all existing structures that may be feasible sites
for co-locating wireless service facilities;
         (b)   Contact with all the other licensed carriers for commercial
mobile radio services operating in the village; and
         (c)   Sharing information necessary to determine if colocation is
feasible under the design configuration most accommodating to colocation.
      (2)   In the event that colocation is found to be infeasible, a written
statement of the reasons for the lack of feasibility shall be submitted to the
village. The village may retain a technical expert in the field of RF
engineering to verify if colocation at the site is not feasible or is feasible
given the design configuration most accommodating to colocation. The cost for
such a technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant. The village
may deny a special use permit to an applicant that has not demonstrated a good
faith effort to provide for colocation.
   (D)   Tower setbacks. Towers shall conform with each of the following
minimum setbacks requirements:
      (1)   Towers shall meet the setbacks of the underlying zoning district
with the exception of industrial zoning districts, where towers may encroach
into the rear setback areas, provided that the rear property line abuts another
industrially zoned property and the tower does not encroach upon any easements.
      (2)   Towers shall not be located between a principal structure and a
public street, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   In industrial zoning districts, towers may be placed within a
side yard abutting an internal industrial street; and
         (b)   On sites adjacent to public streets on all sides, towers may be
placed within a side yard abutting a local street.
      (3)   A tower's location in relation to a public street varied, at the
discretion of the village Planning Commission to allow the integration of a
tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a church steeple, light
standards, power line support device, or similar structure.
      (4)   Towers and associated structures, including fencing, may not be
constructed within 500 feet of a dwelling unit, except where they are being co-
located on existing towers or structures.
   (E)   Tower height. In all zoning districts, the maximum height of any
tower, including antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed 200 feet
except as granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (F)   Tower lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and shall not display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically
required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state
authority for a particular tower. When incorporated into the approved design of
the tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots or
similar areas may be attached to the tower.
   (G)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for signs or
other forms of advertising other than warning or equipment information signs
are prohibited.
   (H)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows:
      (1)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a
time extension is approved by the Zoning Administrator. A copy of the relevant
portions of a signed lease which requires the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the site shall be
submitted at the time of application. In the event that a tower and associated
facilities is not removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at a
site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by the village and the
costs of removal assessed against the property.
      (2)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall be
removed within six months of the time of antenna relocation. The replacement of
portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of a new special
use permit.
   (I)   Interference with public safety telecommunications. No new or existing
telecommunications service shall interfere with public safety
telecommunications. All applications for new service shall be accompanied by an
intermodulation study which provides a technical evaluation of existing and
proposed transmission and indicates all potential interference problems. Before
the introduction of new service or changes in existing service,
telecommunication providers shall notify the [word missing] at least ten
calendar days in advance of such changes and allow the village to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
   (J)   Modifications. A modification of a wireless service facility may be
considered equivalent to an application for a new wireless service facility and
will require a special use permit when the following events apply:
      (1)   The applicant and/or co-applicant wants to alter the terms of the
special use permit by changing the wireless service facility in one or more of
the following ways:
         (a)   Change in the number of facilities permitted on the site; and
         (b)   Change in the technology used for the wireless service facility.
      (2)   The applicant and/or co-applicant wants to add any equipment or
additional height not specified in the original design filing.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 153.110 INTENT.
   Before a building permit is issued, a site plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review and approval. In addition, site plans are
required for all new developments and substantial modifications. Before
granting approval, the Planning Commission shall ascertain that all provisions
of this chapter are complied with and that the proposed location and
arrangement of buildings, accesses, parking areas, walkways, yards, open areas,
and other improvements produce no potential health, safety, or protection
hazards, and the arrangement of buildings and structures will provide
convenience for the intended occupants or utilization by the public, will be
harmonious with development on adjacent properties, and preserve historic
structures.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.111 SCOPE.
   (A)   A site plan is required for:
      (1)   All construction in the MR, C, and M districts; and
      (2)   Expansion, remodeling, or enlargement of existing buildings with a
State or National Register Historic designation or determined to be historic in
nature per this chapter. See §
153.011.
   (B)   The following newly built buildings, structures, or uses shall be
exempt from site plan review and procedures.
      (1)   Single- or two-family homes under separate ownership on an
individual and separate lot for each home and including accessory uses.
      (2)   Expansion, remodeling, or enlargement of existing buildings,
provided these projects are less than 1,000 square feet in the:
         (a)   MR - Multiple Family Residential District;
         (b)   C - Commercial District; or
         (c)   M - Industrial District.
      (3)   Projects greater than 1,000 square feet must have a site plan
review by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   On premises advertising signs providing they conform to this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.112 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Requests for site plan review shall be made on a site plan review form using
the site plan checklist provided for in the developer packet supplied by the
village. The components of the site plan checklist shall be completed before
the site plan is reviewed by the Planning Commission. The developer packet
outlines specific requirements for submittal. Incomplete site plans or site
plans on land not reviewed and approved by the assessor, as portrayed on the
site plan, will not be accepted for review. All site plans must be stamped by a
licensed professional engineer, architect, landscape architect or surveyor.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.113 ACTION ON APPLICATION AND PLANS.
   (A)   Review of a site plan outside of a plat.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall record the date of the receipt of
the application and plans, and shall transmit copies to the Planning
Commission, the Village Zoning Administrator, the Village Engineer, the Police
Chief and Fire Chief, and copies to the other affected Village Departments and
professionals as the village deems necessary. It is strongly advised that all
applicants discuss their site plan with the village staff prior to review by
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   (a)   Where it is evident to the Zoning Administrator, professional
consultants or the Planning Commission that the proposed use will have an
impact upon any public facility, right-of-way or easement, the applicant shall
submit the site plan to the appropriate state, county or local agency(s) that
has an impact upon, or will be impacted by, the proposed land use and shall
request the appropriate agency(s) to review the proposed land use and submit a
written response to the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission describing
the potential impact of the project and the agency's recommendations for
approval, disapproval or modifications.
         (b)   The village and/or Planning Commission may request a traffic
impact analysis in cases where the location, nature of the use or specific
circumstances indicate traffic and/or access management issues require
professional analysis. This impact study shall be at the expense of the
applicant. Permits for driveways, obtained prior to official approval of a site
plan by the Planning Commission shall not constitute approval for construction
and are subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   A public meeting shall be scheduled by the Planning Commission for
a review of the application and plans as well as reviewing the recommendations
of village staff and professionals. Members of the Planning Commission shall be
delivered copies of the application and plans prior to the public meeting for
their preliminary information and study. The meeting shall be scheduled not
more than 40 days following the date of the receipt of the plans and
application by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   The applicant shall be notified of the date, time and place of the
public meeting on their application not less than 15 days prior to that date.
      (5)   Following the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall have
the authority to approve, disapprove, modify or alter the proposed plans in
accordance with the purpose of the site plan review provisions of this section
and the criteria contained herein. Any required modification or alteration
shall be stated in writing, together with the reasons for the modification, and
delivered to the applicant. The Planning Commission may either approve the
plans contingent upon the required alterations or modifications, if any, or may
require a further review after the modifications have been included in the
proposed plans for the applicant. The decision of the Planning Commission shall
be made within 40 days of receipt of the application by the Zoning
Administrator. If the decision is not made within the 40 day period, the appeal
shall be considered approved.
      (6)   Two copies of the approved final plan/design, including any
required modifications or alterations, shall be maintained as part of the
village records for future review and/or enforcement. Each copy shall be signed
and dated by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission for identification of
the final, approved plans, as well as signed and dated by the applicant. If any
variances from the zoning chapter have been obtained from the Zoning Board of
Appeals, the minutes concerning the variances duly signed shall also be filed
with the village records as a part of the plan/design and delivered to the
applicant for their information and direction. The plan/design shall become
part of the record of approval, and subsequent actions relating to the activity
authorized shall be consistent with the approved site plan, unless a change
conforming to this section receives the mutual agreement of the land owner and
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Process for review of a plat. A plat shall be reviewed in the same
manner as a site plan and as described in this chapter, except that a plat
shall be submitted for review at two separate stages in the development of the
plat and in accordance with the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, as amended,
P.A. 288:
      (1)   The tentative preliminary plat. This plat shall be submitted
showing all aspects of the plat as required for site plans, including any
additional information requested by the Planning Commission. Following approval
of the tentative preliminary plat, a preliminary plat shall be submitted.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be considered the final site plan for
the development. Prior to approval of a preliminary plat, the applicant shall
present written approval from the Huron County Road Commission, the Michigan
Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, and the Huron County Drain
Commissioner. The tentative and preliminary plats may be reviewed and approved
simultaneously at the discretion of village staff if all requirements of the
zoning ordinance have been satisfied and there are no outstanding issues that
would prevent a combined review.
      (3)   The final plat is under the jurisdiction of the Huron County Plat
Review Board. https://www.co.huron.mi.us/clerks-office.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.114 CRITERIA FOR REVIEW.
   In reviewing the application and site plan and approving, disapproving, or
modifying the plan, the Planning Commission shall be governed by the following
general standards, in addition to any other site plan standards contained in
any other area of this chapter. The site plan review form has all detailed
requirements.
   (A)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation. There is a proper relationship
between the existing streets and highways within the vicinity and proposed
acceleration and/or deceleration lanes, service drives, entrance and exit
driveways, and parking areas to ensure safety. Ensure a pedestrian and non-
motorized circulation system is provided that promotes the connectivity of
sidewalks throughout the village and which meets the standards set in the
village sidewalk ordinance, when adopted.
   (B)   Natural features. As many natural features of the landscape shall be
retained as possible where they furnish a barrier screen, or buffer between the
project and adjoining properties used for dissimilar purposes and where they
assist in preserving the general appearance of the neighborhood.
   (C)   Drainage. Adequate provision has been made for stormwater drainage on
or from the site. In the case of residential developments, rear lot drainage is
required. Sheet drainage is not permitted on any developments in any district.
A drainage plan will be required. Green infrastructure shall be employed on any
new development where possible.
   (D)   Adverse effects of development. Any adverse effects of the proposed
development and activities emanating from which affect adjoining residents or
owners shall be minimized by appropriate screening, fencing, landscaping,
setback, and location of buildings, structures, and entryways.
   (E)   Historic nature. The preservation of historic structures involves two
basic concerns: slowing the rate at which historic material is lost and
maintaining historic character. Site plan requirements to preserve the historic
nature of a structure shall be limited to actions that fulfill these two
concerns.
   (F)   Layout. The layout of buildings and improvements will minimize any
harmful or adverse effect which the development might otherwise have upon the
surrounding neighborhood.
   (G)   Land division ordinance. The site plan must comply with all provisions
of the zoning ordinance. However, this would not preclude the applicant from
applying for an appropriate variance with the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
Planning Commission may conditionally approve a site plan subject to the
granting of any appropriate variance, only with the understanding that without
the variance the site plan is disapproved.
   (H)   Shared access. The Planning Commission must require shared access
between and among uses where feasible, excluding single-family dwelling uses.
Feasibility is determined with respect to the physical design of the site and
not the effort or costs involved with achieving joint access. This requirement
applies to driveways and access drives associated with site redevelopment or
new construction. A new application for site plan approval shall be required
and new approval obtained before any construction or earth change is commenced
upon the site.
   (I)   Off-street waiting space. Where off-street waiting space is required,
the following regulations shall apply:
      (1)   An off-street waiting space is defined as an area with a minimum
width of nine feet and a minimum length of 20 feet and shall not include the
use of any public space, street, alley or sidewalk and shall be located
entirely within any commercial district. Uses occupied or built for the purpose
of serving customers in their vehicles by a service window or similar
arrangements, off-street waiting spaces shall be provided as follows:
         (a)   Drive-through lanes shall not utilize any space which is
necessary for adequate access to parking spaces from internal maneuvering
lanes.
         (b)   Drive-through lanes shall have a minimum centerline radius of 25
feet.
         (c)   Drive-through lanes shall be striped, marked, or otherwise
distinctively delineated.
         (d)   No space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any lot in any
residential district, unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or
enclosed on all sides facing residential zones, by a wall or uniformly painted
solid board or masonry fence of uniform appearance which is not less than six
feet in height.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.115 UTILITIES.
   Utility lines serving newly constructed structures shall be buried. This
includes gas, electrical, sewer, water, cable and fiber optics. In the case of
utilities being built in the FEMA floodplain, installation must follow FEMA
Floodproofing Guidelines, and any state requirements or permits regarding the
flood zone. Refer to the Village of Sebewaing's Code of Ordinances, Title V -
Public Works for full guidelines.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.116 AMENDMENT TO SITE PLAN.
   A proposed amendment, modification, or alteration to a previously approved
site plan may be submitted to the Planning Commission for review in the same
manner as the original application was submitted or reviewed.
(Ord. passed 11-1-2020)
§ 153.117 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The Planning Commission shall have the right and authority to require the
developer to file with the Zoning Administrator at the time of application for
a building permit, a performance agreement in a form approved by the Zoning
Administrator to ensure the development of those portions of the site that will
be dedicated to the village for public use, including streets and utility
easements, in accordance with the approved site plan, conditioned upon the
proper construction and development. A performance bond may also be required in
instances where the Planning Commission determines the nature of the project is
such the activity being approved by the site plan could cause substantial
negative impact on the safety, aesthetics or function of the infrastructure of
the village in the event the activity/construction or change to the land was
not completed as planned. This agreement shall continue for the duration of the
construction and development of the site.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.120 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Village Council, exercising the authority of P.A.110 of 2006, as
amended, the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, hereby provides a Zoning Board of
Appeals (ZBA) be established. Upon adoption of this chapter, the ZBA
established under the terms of the previous zoning ordinance shall remain in
office, including all members thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.121 MEMBERSHIP.
   Members of the ZBA shall be the members of the Village Council. Each member
shall serve on the ZBA for the same term upon which the member serves on the
Village Council. The Council member who also serves on the Planning Commission
may not participate in ZBA cases unless the issue being considered at the ZBA
has not been presented to the Planning Commission prior to being heard at the
ZBA. Pursuant to § 125.3601 Item 2 of P.A.110 of 2006, as amended, the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.122 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Terms shall be the same term upon which the member serves on the Village
Council. A successor shall be appointed not more than one month after the term
of the preceding member has expired. Vacancies for unexpired shall be filled
for the remainder of the term. A Village ZBA shall not conduct business unless
a majority of the regular members of the ZBA is present.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.123 BOARD OF APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at
such times as the ZBA may determine. A simple majority of the membership shall
constitute a quorum and may conduct any items of business brought before the
Board. All meetings of the ZBA shall be open to the public. The ZBA may declare
any meeting, or part of any meeting, a study meeting to pursue matters of
business without comment or interruption from the public in attendance.
   (B)   Records. Minutes shall be recorded of all proceedings which shall
contain evidence and dates relevant to every case considered together with the
votes of the members and the final disposition of each case. Such minutes shall
be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be public records.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The ZBA shall adopt its own rules of procedure as
may be necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out its function.
   (D)   Majority vote. The concurring vote of a majority of the membership of
the ZBA shall be necessary to decide upon any issue brought before the Board.
For example, if three members are present, out of a total of five members, all
three must concur to pass a motion.
   (E)   Conflict of interest. A member of the ZBA shall disqualify himself or
herself from discussion and voting in which the member has a conflict of
interest. Failure of a member to disqualify himself or herself from a vote in
which the member has a conflict of interest shall constitute misconduct in
office.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.124 APPEALS, METHOD FOR TAKING.
   (A)   Any appeal from a ruling of the Zoning Administrator or body
concerning the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be made to
the ZBA within ten days after the fate of the Zoning Administrator's decision
which is the basis of the appeal. Any appeal shall be in writing on standard
forms. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Board all documents, or
direct copies thereof, constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. Any appeal to the ZBA shall be accompanied with a payment of a
fee established by resolution of the Village Council to cover costs of
processing such appeal.
   (B)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by any
officer, department, or board of the village. Any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney at a hearing considering their request or appeal.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings, and thereupon all changes in the
status quo of the property concerned shall constitute a violation of this
chapter; except the Zoning Administrator may certify to the ZBA after the
notice of the appeal shall have been filed with him or her that for reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by restraining order, which may be granted by the ZBA, or, on
application to the Circuit Court when due cause can be shown.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.125 DECISIONS.
   The ZBA shall return a decision upon each case within 30 days of the filing
of a request or appeal unless a further time is agreed upon by the parties
concerned. Any decision of the ZBA shall not take effect until the expiration
of five days after the date of said decision, unless the ZBA certifies on the
record that the decision must be given immediate effect for the preservation of
property or personal rights. No zoning permit authorized by such a decision
shall be issued until the decision has taken effect.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)   
§ 153.126 DUTIES.
   The Sebewaing ZBA shall have the power to act on those matters where this
chapter provides for an administrative review, interpretation, or variance as
defined in this section. The ZBA shall not have the power to alter or change
the zoning district classification of any property, or to make any change in
the terms or intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Review. The ZBA shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination, made by
the Zoning Administrator, or by any other official in administering or
enforcing any provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Interpretation. The ZBA, upon proper appeal, shall have the power to
hear and decide upon appeals for the interpretation of the provisions of this
chapter as follows:
      (1)   So as to carry out the intent and purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   To determine the precise location of the boundary lines between
zoning districts; or
      (3)   To classify a use which is not specifically mentioned as part of
the use regulations of any zoning district, so it conforms to a comparable
permitted or prohibited use, in accordance with the purpose and intent of each
district.
   (C)   Variances.  The ZBA may have the power to authorize, upon proper
application, specific variances from such dimensional requirements as lot area
and width regulations, building height and bulk regulations, yard and depth
regulations as specified in this chapter provided all the conditions listed are
satisfied.
      (1)   Strict compliance with restrictions governing area, setback,
frontage, height, bulk, density or other non-use matters, will unreasonably
prevent the owner from using the property for a permitted purpose or will
render ordinance conformity unnecessarily burdensome.
      (2)   The variance will do substantial justice to the applicant, as well
as to other property owners.
      (3)   The variance requested is the minimum variance needed to provide
substantial relief to the applicant and/or be consistent with justice to other
property owners.
      (4)   The need for the variance is due to unique circumstances peculiar
to the property and not generally applicable in the area or to other properties
in the same zoning district.
      (5)   The problem and resulting need for the variance has been created by
strict compliance with the zoning ordinance, not by the applicant or the
applicant's predecessors.
   (D)   Rules for granting variances. The following rules shall be applied in
the granting of variances.
      (1)   In granting a variance, the ZBA may specify, in writing, to the
applicant such conditions in connection with the granting, that will, in its
judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the regulations or provisions
to which such variances apply. The breach of any such conditions shall
automatically invalidate the permit granted.
      (2)   Each variance granted shall become null and void unless the
provisions of the variance have been utilized by an applicant within six months
after the granting of the variance.
      (3)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in
part by the ZBA shall be resubmitted for a period of one year, from the date of
the last denial, except on grounds and newly discovered evidence or proof of
changed conditions found upon inspection by the ZBA to be valid.
      (4)   In authorizing any variance, the ZBA may require a bond be
furnished to insure compliance with the requirements, specifications and
conditions imposed with the grant of variance.
      (5)   The ZBA may not create a nonconforming use or a use that is more
nonconforming than the current nonconforming use. In the same way the ZBA may
not create a nonconforming lot or parcel or a lot or parcel that is more
nonconforming than the current nonconforming use or create a nonconforming
parcel from a conforming parcel.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.127 LIMITATIONS.
   The ZBA, notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary, shall not have the
power to alter or change the zoning district classification of any property,
nor to make any change in the terms or intent of this chapter, nor to prohibit
a use which is permitted in this chapter, nor may it determine the validity of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.130 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter shall not affect any pending litigation, civil or criminal,
founded or growing out of any ordinance or resolution, order or permit, and
shall not affect any rights, claims, privileges, immunities or causes of action
of the village of, or any other person, either criminal or civil, that may have
already occurred, accrued or grown out of any ordinance, resolution, permit,
order, or policy repealed by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.131 VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   It is the intent of the Village Council in adopting this chapter that all
provisions shall be liberally construed to protect the public health, safety,
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the village and other persons
affected by this chapter. Should any provision of this chapter be held to be
unconstitutional, invalid, or of no effect, such holding shall not be construed
as affecting the validity of any of the remaining provisions of this chapter,
it being the intent of the village of that such remaining provisions of this
chapter shall stand and remain in effect notwithstanding the invalidity of any
other provisions.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.132 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.133 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
administer and enforce this chapter, including the receiving of applications,
the inspection of premises, and the issuing of permits.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.134 OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any structure or premises
hereafter altered or erected, until the Zoning Administrator has inspected the
premises and approved the same for occupancy.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.135 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   No person, entity, group, or association shall violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter or any lawful order of the Zoning
Administrator, building inspector, or other authorized village official made or
issued to enforce this chapter.
   (A)   Civil infraction. Unless otherwise explicitly stated, any violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be a municipal civil infraction. A
"violation" includes any act which is prohibited or made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense by this chapter and any omission or failure to act where
the act is required by this chapter. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or when a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Penalties. The sanction for any violation of this chapter shall be a
civil fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500, plus any costs, damages,
expenses, other relief, and other sanctions, as authorized and permitted under
Chapter 87 of Public Act No. 236 of 1961 (M.C.L. §§ 600.8701 et seq.) and as
authorized and permitted by and/or under other applicable laws.
   (C)   Public nuisance. Any violation of this chapter shall also be deemed a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief
pursuant to law. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief
or civil enforcement.
   (D)   Authorized officials. The zoning inspector or their deputies, any duly
appointed village code enforcement officer, all police officers of the village,
and any other person expressly authorized by Village Council are hereby
authorized to issue municipal civil infraction citations and notices for
violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.136 PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE ZONING PROCESS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be carried out by the Village of
Sebewaing Planning Commission, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Village
Council, and the Village Zoning Administrator in conformance with applicable
State of Michigan enabling legislation.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. The Village of Sebewaing Council, with the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall employ a Zoning Administrator
to carry out day to day administration and enforcement of this chapter.
Conditions of the Zoning Administrator's employment, including compensation,
shall be established by the Village Council. Additional staff may be employed,
under the supervision of the Zoning Administrator, to assist with
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator's
duties shall include the following items and any other tasks that may be
assigned by the Village Council or provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Accept and record applications, issue and record permits. All
applications for Zoning Permits shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator
who shall keep a record of all applications which have been submitted and their
disposition. When all applicable provisions of this chapter have been met
regarding any application, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit
for the proposed use. When conditions are not met, the Zoning Administrator
shall consult with the applicant to determine the proper course of action (see
Table 12 - Review Process). The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of
all applications and related zoning permits, including documentation for each.
      (2)   Issue written denial. When any application for a zoning permit is
denied, the Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with a written
denial, stating the reasons for the denial.
      (3)   Notice of hearings. Whenever a zoning matter is the subject of a
public hearing before the Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals,
the Zoning Administrator shall prepare notices of the hearing and disseminate
said notices as required by this chapter.
      (4)   Inspections. The Zoning Administrator shall be empowered to make
inspections of buildings or premises to carry out enforcement of this chapter.
      (5)   Record nonconforming uses. The Zoning Administrator shall record
all nonconforming uses existing at the effective date of this chapter.
      (6)   Record special uses.  The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record
of all special use permits issued under the terms of this chapter.
      (7)   Record interpretations of chapter.  The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a concise record of all interpretations of this chapter rendered by
the Zoning Board of Appeals. This record shall be consulted whenever questions
arise concerning interpretation of any provision of this chapter to determine
whether any applicable precedents have been set.
      (8)   Public information. The Zoning Administrator shall respond to
inquiries and dispense information or copies of this chapter to make the public
aware of and familiar with the provisions of this chapter. Public awareness and
acceptance of the zoning ordinance will help to maintain compliance with it.
      (9)   Respond to complaints. The Zoning Administrator shall respond
within five business days, whenever possible, to any complaint regarding an
alleged violation of the terms or conditions of this chapter or any permit
issued pursuant to it. The Zoning Administrator shall provide a report at each
regular Planning Commission meeting summarizing the nature and disposition of
complaints that have been received. A written record of all complaints,
responses and dispositions of the complaint will be maintained.
      (10)   May not change ordinance. Under no circumstances is the Zoning
Administrator permitted to make changes to the ordinance upon which this
chapter is based, or to vary the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Planning Commission.
      (1)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall be composed of five
members, appointed by the Village President with the approval of the Village
Council.
      (2)   Terms of office. The term of service for each member shall be three
years. Rotation of membership is encouraged.
      (3)   Rules of procedure. The Planning Commission shall adopt its own
rules of procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out
its function. The Commission shall choose its Chairperson, Vice-chairperson,
and Secretary.
      (4)   Meetings. The Planning Commission shall meet at least four times
each year, and by resolution shall determine the time and place of meetings.
All meetings shall be properly noticed and open to the public.
      (5)   Per diem or expenses. Members of the Planning Commission may be
compensated for their services as provided by the Village Council. The Planning
Commission may make and administer regulations relative to compensation for the
travel of its members and employees when engaged in the performance of
activities authorized by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Development plan.  The Planning Commissions shall make and adopt a
basic plan as a guide for the development of unincorporated areas of the
village. Plan contents, adoption, amendment, approval by the county planning
commission, hearing and publication shall be according to P.A.110 of 2006, as
amended, the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act.
      (7)   Zoning ordinance. The zoning ordinance shall be based on a plan
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (8)   Administration and enforcement. The Planning Commission shall be
responsible for the following administrative and enforcement activities under
this chapter:
         (a)   Site plan approval.  The Planning Commission shall review site
plans and issue its approval, conditional approval or denial of same.
         (b)   Special use permits. The Planning Commission shall conduct a
public hearing on any application for a special use permit. Following a public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall review and approve or deny said
application. The Planning Commission shall also take any necessary action to
revoke a special use permit.
         (c)   Rezoning or amendment. The Planning Commission shall conduct
public hearings for proposals to rezone property or amend the text of this
chapter. Following a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make its
recommendation regarding the proposed rezoning or text change to the Village
Council. The Planning Commission may initiate a text change or rezoning,
subject to the requirements for notice, hearing and Village Council approval.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.137 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES.
   (A)   Zoning permit required. The issuance of a zoning permit signifies
compliance with the requirements of this chapter. A zoning permit must be
obtained from the Zoning Administrator before any of the following activities
may legally take place.
      (1)   Occupancy and use of vacant land (including parking lot
construction).
      (2)   Any change in the use of a parcel of land or a building, including
any construction or structural alteration of a building that requires issuance
of a building permit by the Huron County Building and Zoning Office. (A zoning
permit must be obtained before a building permit may be issued.) When erected
at the same time as the principal building, accessory buildings shall not
require a separate zoning permit.
      (3)   Any use of land or a building that would be identified as a use by
special use permit in the district regulations.
      (4)   Any change of a nonconforming use or building.
   (B)   Application for zoning permit. Application for a zoning permit shall
be made prior to construction of a new or enlarged building or structure, or a
new or enlarged use of a parcel, is intended to begin. Form and content of the
application package shall be as specified by the following material.
      (1)   Application form. Applicants for a zoning permit shall submit a
zoning application form with all requested information completely filled in.
      (2)   Property information. The zoning application form must be
accompanied by a copy of a property survey, deed or tax records sufficient to
allow identification of the parcel in the Village Assessor's property maps.
When the applicant is anyone other than the property owner identified by the
Assessor's records, evidence of the owner's concurrence or a change in
ownership must also be submitted.
      (3)   Plot plan. The zoning application form must also be accompanied by
a plot plan drawn at size and scale sufficient to clearly identify the exact
dimensions of the parcel, all abutting streets, alleys or easements, and the
size, position and height of all existing and proposed buildings or structures
thereon. The Zoning Administrator may also require any other information deemed
necessary for the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Application review process. On submission of an application for a
zoning permit, the Zoning Administrator will review the application material as
described by Table 12 - Review Process that accompanies this subchapter.
Whenever possible, it is desirable for this review to be conducted with the
applicant present to facilitate any necessary explanation. If all requirements
have been met, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit. When
failure to meet any standard prohibits issuance of a permit, the problem shall
be identified and the applicant advised of their options, based on the
information in the Review Process Table. In all cases, a full review shall be
conducted to identify all potential obstacles to issuance of a zoning permit.
The review will address each question identified by the Review Process Table in
order, moving through each column in the question from left to right.
   (D)   Record maintained.  The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of
each application for a zoning permit which has been submitted, including the
disposition of each one. This record shall be a public record, open for
inspection upon request.
   (E)   Validity of zoning permit. A zoning permit remains in effect for a
period of one year from the date it is issued. By that time, the activity
authorized by the zoning permit must have begun. This means that any use of
land or of an existing building must be underway, or a building permit for any
new construction must have been issued and construction commenced. The validity
of a zoning permit may be extended by the Zoning Administrator not more than
one time, for a period not to exceed one additional year. Said extension must
be requested in writing by the permit holder before the expiration of the
initial permit period.
   (F)   Voiding of zoning permit. If the permit holder fails to initiate the
activity authorized by the zoning permit by the end of the one year extension,
the zoning permit is automatically null and void. Any additional rights
associated with the zoning permit which have been granted by the Planning
Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals, such as special use permits or
variances, expire together with the zoning permit.
   (G)   Performance guarantee. Any performance guarantee shall be refunded to
the permit holder unless the failure to initiate activity has resulted in costs
to the village which were to be covered by the guarantee. If any amount of the
guarantee remains after said costs are satisfied, the balance of the guarantee
shall be released and returned to the permit holder.
   (H)   Reissuance. Reissuance of a zoning permit which has expired requires a
new zoning application form to be filed with the Zoning Administrator and
processed without consideration of any previous action.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
§ 153.138 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Amendment. Village Council may amend. The regulations and provisions
stated in the text of this chapter and the boundaries of zoning districts shown
on the zoning district map may be amended, supplemented, or changed by
ordinance by the Village Council in accordance with the applicable enabling
legislation of the state.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. Proposals for amendments, supplements, or
changes may be initiated by the Village Council of its own action, by the
Planning Commission, or by petition of one or more persons having an interest,
by ownership or option to purchase, in property to be affected by the proposed
amendment.
   (C)   Amendment procedure.
      (1)   Petition to Zoning Administrator and payment of fee. Each petition
by one or more owners or their agents, for an amendment shall be submitted upon
an application of standard form to the Zoning Administrator. A fee as
established by the Village Council shall be paid at the time of application to
cover costs of necessary advertising for public hearings and processing of the
amendment request. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application to
the Planning Commission for recommended action.
      (2)   Recommendation.  The Planning Commission shall consider each
proposed amendment in terms of the likely effect of such proposal upon the
development plans for the community as well as in terms of the merits of the
individual proposal. The Planning Commission may recommend any additions or
modifications to the original amendment petition.
      (3)   Public hearing. Before voting on any proposed amendment to this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing, with notice
being given as specified by P.A.110 of 2006, as amended, the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act.
Table 12 - Review Process
                                                Published
        Parties Who                             Notice(s) and Body to Which
Type of May Initiate Body Making Public Hearing Mailed Notice Applicant May
Action  Action       Decision    Required?      to Owners and Appeal a
                                                Occupants     Denial
                                                Within 300'
Table 12 - Review Process
                                                   Published     Body to
               Parties Who               Public    Notice(s) and Which
Type of Action May Initiate  Body Making Hearing   Mailed Notice Applicant
               Action        Decision    Required? to Owners and May Appeal a
                                                   Occupants     Denial
                                                   Within 300'
               Applicant or  Zoning                Once, between Circuit
Variance       Administrator Board of    Yes       5-15 days     Court only
                             Appeals               before date
               Applicant or  Zoning                Once, between Circuit
Interpretation Administrator Board of    Yes       5-15 days     Court only
                             Appeals               before date
               Any aggrieved
               party or
Appeal of      State,        Zoning                Once, between Circuit
Administrativ  County,       Board of    Yes       5-15 days     Court only
e Decision     Village       Appeals               before date
               officer, or
               dept.
                                                                 Planning
                                                                 Commission
Site Plan      Applicant or  Planning    No        Not required  after 1
Approval       Administrator Commission                          year, or
                                                                 Village
                                                                 Council
                                                                 Planning
                                                   Once, between Commission
Special Use    Applicant or  Planning    Yes       5-15 days     after 1
Permit         Administrator Commission            before date   year, or
                                                                 Circuit
                                                                 Court
                                                                 Planning
                                                   Once, between Commission
Planned Unit   Applicant or  Planning    Yes       5-15 days     or after 1
Development    Administrator Commission            before date   year,
                                                                 Circuit
                                                                 Court
               Applicant,    Planning              Once, between Planning
               Planning      Commission  Yes, if   5-15 days     Commission
Rezoning       Commission or recommends  requested before date.  after 1
               Village       to Village  by any    No notice to  year,
               Council       Council     party     residents     Circuit
                                                   required      Court
               Applicant,    Planning              Once, between Planning
Zoning         Planning      Commission  Yes, if   5-15 days     Commission
Ordinance or   Commission or recommends  requested before date.  after 1
Zoning Map     Village       to Village  by any    No notice to  year,
Text Change    Council       Council     party     residents     Circuit
                                                   required      Court
                                                   See P.A. 110
               Applicant,    Planning              of 2006 as    Planning
Development    Planning      Commission            amended for   Commission
Plan or Map    Commission or recommends  Yes       requirements. after 1 year
Change         Village       to Village            No notice to  or Circuit
               Council       Council               residents     Court
                                                   required
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
APPENDIX A: VILLAGE STREET MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/03ee49823d05829900f2508278eab39bb9a7ad69/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1446.png]
 
(Ord. passed 2-24-1 972; Ord. passed 7-7-19 75; Ord. passed 7-18-1 977; Ord.
passed 4-3-19 78; Ord. passed 8-7-19 78; Ord. passed 9-6-19 78; Ord. passed 8-
4-19 80; Ord. passed 9-8-19 82; Ord. passed 10-4-1 982; Ord. passed 4-18-1983;
Ord. passed 5-7-1984; Ord. passed 6-18-1984; Ord. passed 12-17-1984; Ord.
passed 11-15-1985; Ord. passed 6-16-1986; Ord. passed 7-21-1986; Ord. passed 9-
9-1987; Ord. passed 3-4-1991; Ord. passed 11-16-2020)
CHAPTER 154: DEMOLITION
Section
   
154.01   Definition
   
154.02   Demolition requirements
   
154.03   Additional contractor requirements
   
154.04   Violations; penalty for failure to obtain permit or for disregarding
notices or orders
§ 154.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure located on the property in the village.
   PERSON. An individual or individuals, corporation, partnership, or other
legal entity.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
§ 154.02 DEMOLITION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall demolish a building in the village without first
obtaining a permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless all of the following is agreed to in
writing by the applicant:
      (1)   The village shall be contacted before the following work is
started.
      (2)   This work shall be performed by a licensed wrecking contractor
unless otherwise allowed by the Village Council. All work must be done in a
workman like manner. A demolition permit shall be obtained from the county
Division of Building Inspection before the work is started.
      (3)   The buildings shall be completely demolished. Basement and/or
foundation walls, including concrete slabs in the case of slab-on-grade
foundation systems and posts in the case of post-and-beam construction, are to
be removed to a depth of not less than one foot below the finished grade.
Basement floors shall be broken into units of not more than 16 square feet in
area. All materials or other debris from the structure and appurtenances under
demolition, except undisturbed basement and foundation materials one foot or
more below the finished grade and basement floors, shall be completely removed
from the site and inspected before back fill is placed.
      (4)   The building drain shall be capped or plugged with concrete, and
the building water service piping shall be securely capped in a manner approved
by the county building official and also the village DPW and the village Light
and Water Departments.
      (5)   No back fill may be placed until such capping or plugging is
inspected and approved by the county building official and also the village DPW
and the village Light and Water Departments.
      (6)   Excavations and cavities in the earth remaining after removal of
demolition materials shall be filled with clean yellow sand or clay materials
and covered with a minimum after compaction of four inches at its shallowest
depth of organic topsoil approved in advance by the building official. Adequate
compaction shall be performed to assure that the complete filling shall leave
the site of the excavation and cavities flush with the adjacent grade.
      (7)   No foundry sand may be used. Contractor will guarantee the work
against excessive settlement for a period of six months.
      (8)   The work herein described is not to be let to subcontractors unless
so approved by the Village Council.
      (9)   All building material must be removed from the premises and shall
become the property of the contractor. However, any such salvage operations
shall not constitute a valid reason for delay of completion.
      (10)   Any personal property on the premises which is not permanently
attached to the building or which is not customarily a part of such a building
when sold is NOT the property of the contractor and shall be delivered by him
or her to the village. Upon request of the contractor, the building inspector
will determine whether any given item is part of the building or personal
property to be delivered to the village.
      (11)   The contractor shall notify the village and the county Building
Inspection Division upon completion of the work for final inspections.
      (12)   All building demolition materials which are required by state
statutes to be disposed of in licensed disposal sites shall be transported to
and disposed of at such licensed disposal sites. Dump tickets and/or other
evidence of proper disposal may be required prior to payment for the work.
      (13)   Inert materials which may be legally disposed of in unlicensed
sites may be treated as salvaged building materials and disposed of accordingly
so as not to violate any pertinent federal, state, or local statutes or
ordinances.
      (14)   Walls common with adjacent structures shall be protected against
damage. Any such walls which are higher than three feet above the roofs of
adjacent buildings shall be lowered to such height of three feet to form
parapet walls, and shall be capped with approved materials.
      (15)   Any joist pockets left exposed on such common walls shall be
filled with brick and mortar. Any crumbled, deteriorated, or otherwise
defective mortar joints on such walls shall be repaired by removal of defective
mortar and pointing with new mortar. Any door, window, or other openings in
common walls left exposed after demolition shall be closed with brick and
mortar.
      (16)   All adjacent property, including but not necessarily limited to
adjacent buildings, trees, sidewalks, street lighting poles, and utility poles
shall be protected against damage from demolition work. Any such damage caused
by demolition work shall be repaired to as good or better condition as existing
at no additional cost.
      (17)   If any part of any street, alley, or public sidewalk shall be
obstructed by or used for the purpose of the demolition work, approved barriers
shall be erected to protect the public. Such barriers shall be in place and
approved by the village Chief of Police prior to the commencement of
demolition.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 154.03 ADDITIONAL CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Acceptable proof of the following shall be furnished and on file in
the village office prior to the time of demolition:
      (1)   Workman's compensation insurance. All employees of the contractor
and his or her subcontractors engaging in the performance of work shall be
covered by workman's compensation insurance in accordance with the Workman's
Compensation Act.
      (2)   Automobile insurance. Proof of insurance shall be provided on all
vehicles used for transportation of equipment or removal of building materials.
The village shall be named as an additional insured on said coverage.
      (3)   Contractor's public liability and property damage. The contractor
shall procure and shall maintain during the life of the contract public
liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for injuries,
including accidental death, to each person; and subject to these same limits
for each person, in an amount not less than $1,000,000 on account of each
accident; and property damage insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000
on each accident or a combined single limit of not less than $1,000,000. This
insurance must be secured from surplus lines earners listed by the state as
“admitted carriers” or “non-admitted approved earners.”
      (4)   Wrecker’s license. A current, valid building wrecker's license.
   (B)   “Acceptable proof” of the above public liability insurance will be a
properly issued certificate of insurance indicating the following:
      (1)   General liability insurance with the above listed or higher limits.
      (2)   A description of operations to clearly show that the coverage is
for the type of demolition work to be performed.
      (3)   A certificate naming the village as an additional insured.
      (4)   A notation that the deductible for this insurance does not exceed
$1,000.00.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011; Ord. passed 8-1-2016)
§ 154.04 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT OR FOR DISREGARDING
NOTICES OR ORDERS.
   The owner of any structure who shall fail to comply with this chapter by
failing to obtain a permit or by failing to comply with any notice or order
given by any authorized person shall be guilty of a civil infraction and shall
be subject to a fine of up to $500 and costs of prosecution. Each day of non-
compliance shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2011)
CHAPTER 155: NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
Section
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   Intent
   
155.03   Premises number required
   
155.04   Establishment of authorized numbering system
   
155.05   Required marking of property
   
155.06   Number required prior to issuance of certificate of occupancy
   
155.07   Defacing numbers
   
155.08   Enforcement; compliance
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. Any use of property which is non-residential, including but not
limited to business, industrial, or professional uses.
   IMPROVED PROPERTIES. Any improvement to commercial or residential property,
including but not limited to a subdivision, apartment complex, condominium
complex, industrial complex, shopping mall, or any complex of like nature.
   MULTI-DWELLING RESIDENCE. Any residential building in which more than one
family or tenant may reside, including but not limited to apartment buildings,
condominium buildings, town house buildings, and complexes that are similar in
nature.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.02 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to safeguard the public health and welfare
by regulating the size and placement of building identification, so that it
will be readily visible from the exterior of the building, and to require each
unit of a multi-dwelling residence to be adequately identified.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.03 PREMISES NUMBER REQUIRED.
   All buildings and improved property shall be conspicuously marked with a
premises number placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORIZED NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The numbering system for the village is established by the owner's
electrical provider and shall be numbered in accordance with the street
numbering plats of the village. Anyone wishing to establish the number of a
premise shall contact this agency.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.05 REQUIRED MARKING OF PROPERTY.
   All building and improved properly shall be marked with a number as follows:
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to contact the appropriate
agency to procure the correct number for each premise.
   (B)   The numbers used shall be at least three inches high and shall be made
of durable material. Arabic numbers shall be used. Numbers written out shall
not be used to replace the Arabic numbers.
   (C)   The numbers shall be placed near the front entrance of the home or
garage, clearly visible from the street. In cases where the numbers will not be
visible from the street, an additional set of numbers shall be placed at the
street, at least five feet off the side of the driveway and between 36 to 40
inches above the ground.
   (D)   Numbers and letters shall be placed on or near the principal entrance
of each unit of multi- dwelling residence so as to readily and adequately
identify each unit.
   (E)   Approved identification shall also be placed on all new and existing
commercial or industrial buildings located on premises that have frontage on
two parallel street or a parallel street and alley, in such a position anywhere
on the rear of such building, not less than five feet nor more than 12 feet
above the ground, so as to be visible and legible from the street or alley to
the rear of such building. Such approved identification may consist of a sign,
in conformity with the village zoning code, containing the occupant's business
name or the full street name and number as represented on the front entrance to
such premises.
   (F)   Approved numbers shall be colored so as to contrast readily and
visibly with their background.
   (G)   Approved numbers shall not be mounted on a door covered by a screen or
storm door.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.06 NUMBER REQUIRED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of use and occupancy shall be issued until the owner has
procured a premises number from the owner's electrical provider, and such
number is in the approved place.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.07 DEFACING NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface, or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this chapter, except for
repair or replacement of such number.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.08 ENFORCEMENT; COMPLIANCE.
   Existing structures affected by this chapter shall be required to be in
compliance within 90 days of the adoption of this chapter. New structures shall
be brought into compliance upon completion. Upon notification of noncompliance,
the owner of a premises or agent in charge thereof shall, within ten days of
notification, install approved numbers or letters on the premises. Failure to
comply shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ZONING
TABLE I: ZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning the property located at Lot 3 and south half of
-        3-20-1989   Lot 4, Block 3, Campbell's Addition from C Commercial to
                     M1 Light Manufacturing.
                     Rezoning a part of the southeast quarter of Section 8,
-        1-2-1996    Township 15 North, Range 9 East from RA-2 One-Family
                     Residential to MR Multiple Residential.
                     Rezoning the west ten feet of Lot 7, Block 1 and Lot 4,
-        9-4-2001    Block 1, except the west ten feet and except the east 40
                     feet, McKay's Subdivision, Section 9, T15N, R9E from RA-
                     2 One-Family Residential to C Commercial.
                     Rezoning the north side of Union Street, west of Miller
                     Street, including parcel numbers 3239-0007-008-00, 3239-
-        8-15-2016   007-008-50, 3239-007-008-60 and addresses of 535 N. Miller
                     Street and 522 Union Street from RA-2 Family Residential
                     to C Commercial.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws
References to 1988 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS
 
M.C.L. Section Code Section
M.C.L. Section          Code Section
15.231                  99.17
15.231 to 15.246        99.04
24.201 to 24.328        70.01
28.601 through 28.616   32.01
29.1 et seq.            153.024
61.1 et seq.            10.02
63.3                    30.01
125.539                 153.011,
                        153.025
125.540 - 125.5419      153.025
                        35.02 -
                        35.04,
125.1651 - 125.1681     35.08,
                        35.20,
                        35.23
                        35.02 -
125.1801 - 125.1830     35.04,
                        35.08
125.2302                75.01
141.101 through 141.138 50.23
205.701 through 205.779 33.13
247.651 et seq.         99.13
247.655                 77.01
257.1 et seq.           153.093
257.1 to 257.923        70.15
257.301 to 257.329      77.01
257.625                 70.20
257.625(b)(2)           75.99
257.625(4)              75.99
257.657a                78.02
257.657a(16)            78.02
257.657a(21)(a)(b)      78.02
259.431 et seq.         153.102
259.481 et seq.         153.102
282.101 through 282.117 151.05
324.101 et seq.         153.102
324.3101 et seq.        153.102
324.9101 et seq.        153.102
324.30101 et seq.       153.102
324.30301 et seq.       153.102
324.32301 et seq.       153.102
324.32501 et seq.       153.102
324.35301 et seq.       153.102
324.81129               77.01
324.82101 to 324.82160  74.01,
                        74.99
436.1101 et seq.        90.01
484.2102                99.03
484.2251                99.04
484.3101                99.01,
                        99.03
600.8101 et seq.        71.01
600.8701 et seq.        10.02,
                        153.135
712A.2                  130.19
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section 2011 Code Section
1988 Code Section 2011 Code Section
1.100             10.05
1.101             10.03
1.102             10.01
1.103             10.02
1.104             10.04
1.105             10.06
1.106             10.07
1.107             10.08
1.108             10.09
1.109             10.10
1.110             10.11
1.111             10.99
1.112             10.12
1.200             30.02
1.201             30.02
1.202             30.02
1.300             32.01
1.400             34.01
1.401             34.02
1.402             34.03
1.403             34.04
1.404             34.05
1.405             34.06
2.2100            56.01
2.2101            56.02
2.2102            56.03
2.2103            56.04
2.2104            56.05
2.2105            56.06
2.2106            56.07
2.2107            56.08,
                  56.99
2.2108            56.09
2.2109            56.99
2.2300            50.01
2.2301            50.02
2.2302            50.03
2.2303            50.04
2.2304            50.05
2.2305            50.06
2.2306            50.07
2.2307            50.08
2.2308            50.09
2.2400            53.01
2.2401            53.01
2.2403            53.02
2.2500            50.20
2.2501            50.21
2.2502            50.22
2.2503            50.23
2.2700            51.01
2.2701            51.02
2.2702            51.03
2.2703            51.04
2.2706            51.99
2.2800            51.20
2.2801            51.21
2.2802            51.22
2.2803            51.23
2.2804            51.24
2.2805            51.25
2.2806            51.26
2.2807            51.27
2.2808            51.99
2.2809            51.28
2.3000            52.01
2.3001            52.02
2.3002            52.03
2.3003            52.04
2.3004            52.05
2.3005            52.06
2.3006            52.99
3.3100            97.01
3.3101            97.02
3.3102            97.03
3.3103            97.04
3.3200            100.01
3.3201            100.02
3.3202            100.03
3.3203            100.04
3.3204            100.05
3.3205            100.06
3.3206            100.07
3.3207            100.08
3.3208            100.09
3.3209            100.10
3.3210            100.11
3.3211            100.12
3.3212            100.13
3.3213            100.14
3.3214            100.15
4.4100            98.001
4.4101            98.002
4.4102            98.003
4.4103            98.004
4.4104            98.005
4.4105            98.006
4.4106            98.007
4.4107            98.008
4.4108            98.020
4.4109            98.035
4.4110            98.036
4.4111            98.050
4.4112            98.051
4.4113            98.065
4.4114            98.066
4.4115            98.067
4.4116            98.068
4.4200            98.080
4.4201            98.081
4.4202            98.082
4.4203            98.083
4.4204            98.084
6.6100            96.01
6.6101            96.02
6.6200            101.01
6.6201            101.02
6.6400            92.20
6.6500            95.01
6.6501            95.02
6.6502            95.03
7.7200            111.01
7.7201            111.02
7.7202            111.03
7.7203            111.04
7.7204            111.05
7.7205            111.06
7.7206            111.07
7.7207            111.08
7.7208            111.09
7.7209            111.10
7.7210            111.11
7.7211            111.12
7.7212            111.13
7.7213            111.14
7.7214            111.15
7.7215            111.16
8.8100            150.01
8.8200            151.01
8.8201            151.02
8.8202            151.03
8.8203            151.04
8.8204            151.05
8.8300            152.01
8.8301            152.02
8.8302            152.03
8.8303            152.04
8.8304            152.05
9.9100            91.01
9.9101            91.02
9.9102            91.03
9.9103            91.04
9.9104            91.05
9.9200            91.20
9.9201            91.21
9.9202            91.22
9.9300            130.01
9.9301            130.02
9.9302            130.02
9.9400            94.01
9.9401            94.02
9.9402            94.03
9.9500            76.01
9.9600            93.01
9.9601            93.02
9.9602            93.03
9.9603            93.04
9.9604            93.05
9.9605            93.06
9.9606            93.07
9.9607            93.08
9.9700            90.01
9.9701            90.02
9.9702            90.03
9.9703            90.04
9.9703            90.05
9.9704            90.06
9.9705            90.07
9.9707            75.01
9.9708            75.02,
                  75.99
9.9709(1)         75.03
9.9709(2)         75.99
9.9800            130.15
9.9801            130.16
9.9802            130.17
9.9900            131.01
9.9901            131.02
9.9902            131.02
9.9903            131.03
10.10100          70.01
10.10101          70.02
10.10102          70.03
10.10200          71.01
10.10201          71.01
10.10202          71.02
10.10203          71.02
10.10204          71.02
10.10205          71.03
10.10300          72.01
10.10301          72.02
10.10302          72.03
10.10303          72.04
10.10304          72.05
10.10305          72.05
10.10306          72.06
10.10307          72.99
10.10401          71.16
10.10400          71.15
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      2-21-2005   97.04
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         51.01
–      - -         51.05
–      - -         51.25
–      8-8-1944    101.01,
                     101.02
–      8-7-1950    53.01,
                     53.02
–      5-2-1955    100.01—
                     100.15
–      3-6-1961    30.02
                     98.001—
                     98.008,
                     98.020,
                     98.035,
                     98.036,
–      3-6-1961    98.050,
                     98.051,
                     98.065—
                     98.068,
                     98.080—
                     98.084
                     130.15,
–      5-3-1965    130.16,
                     130.17
–      12-6-1965   91.01—
                     91.05
–      3-4-1968    30.02
–      10-21-1968  70.01—
                     70.03
–      1-6-1969    71.01—
                     71.03
                     51.01—
–      7-6-1970    51.04,
                     51.99
–      12-8-1970   94.01—
                     94.03
–      10-4-1971   76.01
–      12-20-1971  130.17
                     51.20—
–      5-15-1972   51.28,
                     51.99
–      11-4-1974   150.01
–      4-21-1975   98.080—
                     98.084
–      5-19-1975   151.01
–      5-19-1975   151.02—
                     151.05
                     56.01—
–      11-3-1975   56.09,
                     56.99
                     51.01—
–      12-15-1975  51.04,
                     51.99
                     56.01—
–      12-15-1975  56.09,
                     56.99
                     51.01—
–      7-19-1976   51.04,
                     51.99
                     56.01—
–      4-4-1977    56.09,
                     56.99
–      6-6-1977    70.01—
                     70.03
–      6-6-1977    71.01—
                     71.03
–      4-3-1978    30.02
–      4-3-1978    34.01—
                     34.06
                     50.01—
–      4-3-1978    50.09,
                     50.20—
                     50.23
                     51.01—
                     51.04,
–      4-3-1978    51.20—
                     51.28,
                     51.99
–      4-3-1978    53.01,
                     53.02
                     75.01—
–      4-3-1978    75.03,
                     75.99
–      4-3-1978    76.01
–      4-3-1978    90.01—
                     90.07
                     91.01—
–      4-3-1978    91.05,
                     91.20—
                     91.22
–      4-3-1978    93.01—
                     93.08
–      4-3-1978    94.01—
                     94.03
–      4-3-1978    97.01—
                     97.04
                     98.001—
                     98.008,
                     98.020,
                     98.035,
                     98.036,
–      4-3-1978    98.050,
                     98.051,
                     98.065—
                     98.068,
                     98.080—
                     98.084
–      4-3-1978    100.01—
                     100.15
–      4-3-1978    101.01,
                     101.02
                     130.01,
–      4-3-1978    130.02,
                     130.15—
                     130.17
–      4-3-1978    152.01—
                     152.05
–      7-3-1978    30.02
                     52.01—
–      1-3-1979    52.06,
                     52.99
–      5-7-1979    111.01—
                     111.16
–      9-5-1979    70.01—
                     70.03
                     75.01—
–      2-2-1981    75.03,
                     75.99
–      2-2-1981    90.01—
                     90.07
–      1-21-1985   30.02
–      3-18-1985   71.01—
                     71.03
                     72.01—
–      3-18-1985   72.06,
                     72.99
–      11-4-1985   92.20
                     51.01—
–      10-19-1987  51.04,
                     51.99
–      1-8-1988    111.01—
                     111.16
–      1-18-1988   32.01
–      1-18-1988   34.01—
                     34.06
                     50.01—
–      1-18-1988   50.09,
                     50.20—
                     50.23
                     51.01—
                     51.04,
–      1-18-1988   51.20—
                     51.28,
                     51.99
                     71.01—
–      1-18-1988   71.03,
                     71.15,
                     71.16
                     75.01—
–      1-18-1988   75.03,
                     75.99
–      1-18-1988   90.01—
                     90.07
–      1-18-1988   91.20—
                     91.22
–      1-18-1988   93.01—
                     93.08
–      1-18-1988   95.01—
                     95.03
–      1-18-1988   96.01,
                     96.02
                     98.001—
                     98.008,
                     98.020,
                     98.035,
                     98.036,
–      1-18-1988   98.050,
                     98.051,
                     98.065—
                     98.068,
                     98.080—
                     98.084
–      1-18-1988   100.01—
                     100.15
–      1-18-1988   101.01,
                     101.02
–      1-18-1988   130.01,
                     130.02
–      1-18-1988   131.01—
                     131.03
–      1-18-1988   152.01—
                     152.05
–      3-20-1989   TSO Table I
–      8-5-1991    34.01—
                     34.06
–      8-17-1992   101.01,
                     101.02
                     56.01—
–      9-7-1993    56.09,
                     56.99
–      9-20-1993   111.30—
                     111.48
–      1-2-1996    TSO Table I
–      10-6-1997   34.02
–      3-20-2000   30.01
–      3-20-2000   50.23
–      3-20-2000   71.03
–      3-20-2000   101.01,
                     101.02
–      5-15-2000   70.15—70.18,
                     70.99
                     73.02,
–      8-21-2000   73.03,
                     73.99
–      4-30-2001   33.01—
                     33.17
                     130.16,
–      5-7-2001    130.17,
                     130.19,
                     130.99
–      9-4-2001    TSO Table I
–      9-17-2001   101.01,
                     101.02
–      5-20-2002   101.01,
                     101.02
–      5-20-2002   130.30,
                     130.99
–      6-3-2002    101.01,
                     101.02
–      7-15-2002   101.01,
                     101.02
–      8-5-2002    101.01,
                     101.02
                     70.01—
–      12-16-2002  70.03,
                     70.99
                     99.01—
–      12-16-2002  99.19,
                     99.99
                     10.99,
                     73.01—
                     73.03,
–      5-19-2003   73.99,
                     74.01—
                     74.03,
                     74.99
–      6-16-2003   96.02
–      7-21-2003   91.23
–      10-20-2003  30.02
–      1-5-2004    30.02
–      12-20-2004  31.15
–      5-16-2005   101.01,
                     101.02
                     92.01—
–      10-3-2005   92.05,
                     92.99
–      10-3-2005   130.02
–      10-3-2005   131.15,
                     131.99
–      - -2006     92.03,
                     96.02
–      10-16-2006  91.21
–      10-16-2006  92.03
–      6-18-2007   92.01
–      6-16-2008   51.04,
                     51.99
                     30.02,
2009-    - -         51.04,
                     51.99
2010-    8-16-2010   130.18
–      7-5-2011    101.02
–      10-3-2011   Adopting Ordinance
–      10-17-2011  154.01 -
                     154.04
–      3-19-2012   70.20,
                     70.99
                     102.01,
–      5-7-2012    102.02,
                     102.99
–      6-4-2012    101.03
–      7-2-2012    101.02
–      8-6-2012    50.07
                     30.02,
                     31.25,
–      11-19-2012  50.23,
                     51.04,
                     54.01,
                     56.08
–      11-19-2012  35.01—
                     35.09
–      1-21-2013   70.20,
                     70.99
–      4-1-2013    31.15 -
                     31.17
–      10-7-2013   35.20 -
                     35.24
–      11-4-2013   51.04
–      11-4-2013   150.01
                     155.01 -
–      11-4-2013   155.08,
                     155.99
–      1-20-2014   51.04
–      1-20-2014   71.15
–      2-17-2014   56.01,
                     56.08
–      4-21-2014   31.15
–      4-21-2014   34.02
–      4-21-2014   34.03
–      4-21-2014   50.23
–      4-21-2014   71.03,
                     71.17
–      4-21-2014   92.05
–      4-21-2014   92.99
–      4-21-2014   101.02
–      5-19-2014   101.02
–      6-16-2014   71.20
–      7-7-2014    56.05
–      7-7-2014    71.20,
                     71.21
–      3-2-2015    51.29
–      3-2-2015    56.06
                     77.01 -
–      3-2-2015    77.06,
                     77.99
–      4-20-2015   71.17
–      6-1-2015    34.05
–      6-1-2015    71.17
                     95.04,
–      8-3-2015    95.05,
                     95.99
                     55.01,
–      12-21-2015  55.02,
                     55.99
–      12-21-2015  57.01
–      7-5-2016    34.02
–      8-1-2016    154.02,
                     154.03
                     110.01 -
                     110.03,
–      8-1-2016    110.15,
                     110.16,
                     110.99
–      8-15-2016   TSO Table I
–      3-20-2017   34.05
                     103.01 -
–      1-15-2018   103.10,
                     103.99
–      10-1-2018   51.02
–      10-1-2018   56.07
                     78.01,
–      10-1-2018   78.02,
                     78.99
–      1-21-2019   112.01
                     153.001 -
                     153.005,
                     153.010,
                     153.011,
                     153.015,
                     153.016,
                     153.020 -
                     153.025,
                     153.030 -
                     153.043,
                     153.050 -
–      11-16-2020  153.055,
                     153.060 -
                     153.070,
                     153.080 -
                     153.103,
                     153.110 -
                     153.117,
                     153.120 -
                     153.127,
                     153.130 -
                     153.138,
                     Ch. 153, App. A
-        5-19-2025   93.01
-        5-19-2025   101.01
-        5-19-2025   51.23
-        6-16-2025   34.02
                    
 
