SILVER CREEK TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local Legislation current through Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  *  www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 1705
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR SILVER CREEK TOWNSHIP, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF SILVER CREEK TOWNSHIP DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Silver Creek Township
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize Silver Creek Township to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of Silver Creek Township has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of Silver Creek Township
ordinances of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF SILVER CREEK
TOWNSHIP THAT;
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Silver Creek Township as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Silver Creek Township, Michigan Code of Ordinances."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   Title I: General Provisions
10.    Rides of Construction; General Penalty
   Title III: Administration
30.   Ordinance Violations Bureau
31.   Planning Commission
32.   Township Organization
33.   Sister Lakes Area Sewer Systems
34.   Indian Lake Wastewater Sewer System
   Title V: Public Works
50.   Sister Lakes Area Sewer Systems
51.   Indian Lake Wastewater Sewer Systems
   Title VII: Traffic Code
70.   Traffic Regulations
   Title IX: General Regulations
90.   Boats and Lakes
91.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
92.   Outdoor Storage
   Title XI: Business Regulations
Reserved
   Title XIII: General Offenses
Reserved
   Title XV: Land Usage
150.   Mobile Homes
151.   Land Division
152.   Building Codes
153.   Signs
154.   Radio/Telephone, Microwave, City Towers, and Accessory Structures
155.   Zoning
   Table of Special Ordinances
I.    Zoning
II.   Agreements
   Parallel References
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
Reference to Resolutions
Reference to Ordinances
   Index
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
5, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 5.   This ordinance is declared to be necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of
this municipality, and shall take effect 30 days after publication.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Silver Creek Township on
the 10th day of May 2017.
Motion offered by:   Clerk Barbara Runyon and supported by Supervisor Bill
Saunders
Roll call vote:
Yes (5):   Supervisor Bill Saunders, Clerk Barbara Runyon, Treasurer Maureen
Kuriata, Trustee Mike Glynn and Trustee Bill Zuhl
No (0):   None.
Absent (0):   None.
Adopted:   May 10, 2017
Published:   May 19, 2017
Effective:   June 18, 2017
CLERK'S CERTIFICATION
I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance 17-05 constitutes a true and
complete copy of the ordinance adopted by the Silver Creek Township Board of
Trustees, Cass County, State of Michigan, at a regular meeting held on the 10th
day of May, 2017.
Date:   May 16, 2017                       \s\  Barbara Runyon               
                           Barbara Runyon, Clerk
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code is designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE IS DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Silver Creek
Township Code”.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD.  The Silver Creek Township Board.
      CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the township, and for which civil sanctions, including,
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE.  The Silver Creek Township Code, as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  Cass County, Michigan.
      JUVENILE.  A person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR.  A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE.  Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Township of
Silver Creek, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer
of the township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES.  The ordinances of the township and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON.  Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association,
or corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE.  The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Silver Creek, Michigan.
§ 10.03  SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or division.
§ 10.04  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code, or the ordinance adopting this code, shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township, any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the
township;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
township;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
township officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones, and specific stop or yield intersections, or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to re-zoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Township Clerk’s office.
§ 10.05  CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoined, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Silver Creek
Township Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Silver Creek Township Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads
as follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive, permanent, and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete, or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the township, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a township ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable, and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
31.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
32.   TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATION
      
33.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
CHAPTER 30:  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
30.01   Title
   
30.02   Establishment, location, and personnel
   
30.03   Authority
   
30.04   Violation notice requirements
   
30.05   Denial of responsibility
   
30.06   Schedule of civil fines
   
30.07   Records and accounting
   
30.08   Availability of other enforcement options
§ 30.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Silver Creek Township Ordinance
Violations Bureau Chapter.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.02  ESTABLISHMENT, LOCATION, AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Establishment. The Silver Creek Township Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau (hereafter “Bureau”) is hereby established pursuant to Public
Act 12 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, as it may be amended from time to
time, for the purpose of accepting admissions of responsibility for ordinance
violations designated as municipal civil infractions, and to collect and retain
civil fines/costs for such violations as prescribed herein.
   (B)   Location. The Bureau shall be located at the Township Hall/Office or
such other location in the township as may be designated by the Township Board.
   (C)   Personnel. All personnel of the Bureau shall be township employees.
The Township Board may, by resolution, designate a Bureau Clerk with the duties
prescribed herein and as otherwise may be delegated by the Township Board.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.03  AUTHORITY.
   The Bureau shall only have authority to accept admissions of responsibility
(without explanation) for municipal civil infractions for which a municipal
ordinance violations notice has been issued and served, and to collect and
retain the scheduled civil fines/costs for such violations specified pursuant
to this chapter or another applicable ordinance. The Bureau shall not accept
payment of fines/costs from any person who denies having committed the alleged
violation or who admits responsibility only with explanation. The Bureau shall
not determine or attempt to determine the truth or falsity of any fact or
matter relating to an alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.04  VIOLATION NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices shall be issued and
served by authorized township officials as provided by law.
   (B)   A municipal ordinance violation notice shall include, at a minimum,
all of the following:
      (1)   The violation;
      (2)   The time within the person must contact the Bureau for purposes of
admitting or denying responsibility for the violation;
      (3)   The amount of the scheduled fines/costs for the violation;
      (4)   The methods by which the violation may be admitted or denied;
      (5)   The consequences of failing to pay the required fines/costs or
contact the Bureau within the required time;
      (6)   The address and telephone number of the Bureau; and
      (7)   The days and hours that the Bureau is open.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.05  DENIAL OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where a person fails to admit responsibility (without explanation) for a
violation within the jurisdiction of the Bureau and pay the required civil
fines/costs within the designated time period, the Bureau Clerk or other
designated township employee(s) shall promptly report the same to the
appropriate ordinance enforcement personnel of the township. The ordinance
enforcement personnel shall thereafter proceed as authorized to issue and file
a municipal civil infraction citation for such violation with the county
district court having jurisdiction of the matter. The citation shall be on a
form designated by the State Court Administrator’s office for the state, shall
be filed with the court within three days of issuance, and shall consist of a
sworn complaint containing, at a minimum, the allegations stated in the
municipal ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged
violator how to respond to the citation. A copy of the citation may be served
by first class mail thereafter be processed in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.06  SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES.
   (A)   Unless a different schedule of civil fines is provided for by an
applicable ordinance, the civil fines payable to the Bureau upon admissions of
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violation notices
shall be determined pursuant to the following schedule.
 
First violation within 3-year period*         $75
Second violation within 3-year period*        $150
Third violation within 3-year period*         $375
Fourth or subsequent violation within 3-year* $500
* determined on the basis of the date of violation(s)
 
   (B)   In addition to the above-prescribed civil fines, costs in the amount
of $10 shall be assessed by the Bureau if the fine and costs are paid within
ten days of the date of service of the municipal ordinance violation notice.
Otherwise, costs of $20 shall be assessed by the Bureau.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.07  RECORDS AND ACCOUNTING.
   The Bureau Clerk, or other designated township official/employee, shall
retain a copy of all municipal ordinance violation notices and shall account to
the Township Board once a month, or at such other intervals as the Township
Board may require, concerning the number of admissions and denials of
responsibility for ordinance violations within the jurisdiction of the Bureau
and the amount of fines/costs collected with respect to such violations. The
civil fines/costs collected shall be delivered to the Township Treasurer at
such intervals as the Treasurer shall require, and shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the township.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 30.08  AVAILABILITY OF OTHER ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require the township to initiate
its municipal civil infraction ordinance enforcement activity through the
issuance of an ordinance violation notice. As to each ordinance violation
designated as a municipal civil infraction, the township may, at its sole
discretion, proceed directly with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction
citation or take such enforcement action as is authorized by law.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 3-16-2011)
CHAPTER 31:  PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Establishment
   
31.03   Appointments and terms
   
31.04   Removal
   
31.05   Conflict of interest
   
31.06   Compensation
   
31.07   Officers and committees
   
31.08   Bylaws, meetings, and records
   
31.09   Annual report
   
31.10   Master plan
   
31.11   Zoning powers
   
31.12   Capital improvements program
   
31.13   Subdivision recommendations
§ 31.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted the Township
Board under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act
110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to establish a Planning
Commission with the powers, duties, and limitations provided by those Acts and
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and any future amendments
to this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide that the Township Board
shall hereby confirm the establishment under the Michigan Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of the Silver
Creek Township Planning Commission formerly established under the Township
Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et seq.; to
establish the appointments, terms, and membership of the Planning Commission;
to identify the officers and the minimum number of meetings per year of the
Planning Commission; and to prescribe the authority, powers, and duties of the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.02  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Township Board hereby confirms the establishment under the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq., of the Planning Commission formerly established under the Township
Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et seq. The
Planning Commission shall have seven members. Members of the Planning
Commission, as of the effective date of this chapter, shall, except for an ex
officio member whose remaining term on the Planning Commission shall be limited
to his or her term on the Township Board, continue to serve for the remainder
of his or her existing terms so long as he or she continue to meet all of the
eligibility requirements for Planning Commission membership set forth within
the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.03  APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The township supervisor, with the approval of the Township Board by a
majority vote of the members elected and serving, shall appoint all Planning
Commission members, including the ex officio member.
   (B)   The Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio member,
shall serve for terms of three years each.
   (C)   A Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment.
   (D)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
township, except that one Planning Commission member may be an individual who
is not a qualified elector of the township. The membership of the Planning
Commission shall be representative of important segments of the community, such
as the economic, governmental, educational, and social development of the
township, in accordance with the major interests as they exist in the township,
such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry, and commerce. The membership shall also
be representative of the entire geography of the township to the extent
practicable.
   (E)   One member of the Township Board shall be appointed to the Planning
Commission as an ex officio member.
   (F)   An ex officio member has full voting rights. An ex officio member’s
term on the Planning Commission shall expire with his or her term on the
Township Board.
   (G)   No other elected officer or employee of the township is eligible to be
a member of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.04  REMOVAL.
   The Township Board may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.05  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a Planning Commission
member may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member
shall disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission.
Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as required by
this section constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the Planning Commission shall define
conflict of interest in its bylaws.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.06  COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members may be compensated for their services as
provided by Township Board resolution. The Planning Commission may adopt bylaws
relative to compensation and expenses of its members for travel when engaged in
the performance of activities authorized by the Township Board, including, but
not limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops, educational and training
programs, and meetings.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.07  OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Secretary from
its members, and may create and fill other offices as it considers advisable.
An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as
Chairperson. The term of each office shall be one year, with opportunity for
reelection as specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may also appoint advisory committees whose
members are not members of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.08  BYLAWS, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular meetings each
year, and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the meetings.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission’s bylaws, a
special meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or
by two other members, upon written request to the Secretary. Unless the bylaws
otherwise provide, the Secretary shall send written notice of a special meeting
to Planning Commission members at least 48 hours before the meeting.
   (D)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings, and determinations. A writing prepared, owned, used, in
the possession of, or retained by a Planning Commission in the performance of
an official function shall be made available to the public in compliance with
the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 et seq.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.09  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the Township
Board concerning its operations and the status of the planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the Township Board related to
planning and development.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.10  MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Under the authority of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act
33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and other applicable planning
statutes, the Planning Commission shall make a master plan as a guide for
development within the township’s planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Planning Commission unless the Township Board passes a
resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the master plan.
   (C)   Unless rescinded by the township, any plan adopted or amended under
the Township Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et
seq., need not be readopted under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public
Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.11  ZONING POWERS.
   (A)   The Township Board hereby confirms the transfer of all powers, duties,
and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning commissions by the
former Township Zoning Act, Public Act 184 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271
et seq.; the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 130 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.; or other applicable zoning statutes to the
Planning Commission formerly established under the Township Planning Act,
Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et seq.
   (B)   Any existing zoning ordinance shall remain in full force and effect
except as otherwise amended or repealed by the Township Board.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.12  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.
   To further the desirable future development of the township under the master
plan, the Planning Commission, after the master plan is adopted, shall annually
prepare a capital improvements program of public structures and improvements,
showing those structures and improvements in general order of their priority
for the following six-year period.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 31.13  SUBDIVISION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Township Board provisions
of an ordinance or rules governing the subdivision of land. Before recommending
such an ordinance or rule, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed ordinance or rule. The Planning Commission shall give notice of
the time and place of the public hearing not less than 15 days before the
hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
township.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Township Board under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. Before
making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall contain
the name and address of the proprietor or other person to whom notice of a
hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing,
notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be sent to the person
at that address by mail and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the township. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed platted land.
(Ord. 11-04, passed 5-11-2011)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATION
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Establishment
   
32.03   Authority
Ordinance Enforcement Officer
   
32.15   Established
   
32.16   Appointment
   
32.17   Authority
   
32.18   Duties
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01  PURPOSE.
   The township desires to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its
citizens and the public, and has determined that the establishment of a Police
Department is in the best interest of the township.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 9-8-2004)
§ 32.02  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The township hereby establishes a Police Department to be known as the
Silver Creek Township Police Department.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 9-8-2004)
§ 32.03  AUTHORITY.
   The township’s Police Department shall have the full power to enforce
township ordinances and state laws.
(Ord. 04-08, passed 9-8-2004)
ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 32.15  ESTABLISHED.
   The office of the Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby
established.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 32.16  APPOINTMENT.
   The Township Board is hereby authorized to appoint by motion and/or
resolution any person or persons to the office of Ordinance Enforcement Officer
for such term or terms as may be designated in said motion or resolution and
for such compensation as the Board may determine. The Board may further, by
motion and/or resolution, remove any person from said office at the discretion
of the Board.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 32.17  AUTHORITY.
   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to enforce all
ordinances of the township, whether heretofore or hereafter enacted, and
whether such ordinances specifically designate a different enforcing official
or do not designate any particular enforcing officer. Where a particular
officer is so designated in any ordinance, that officer’s authority shall
continue in full force and effect and shall not be diminished or impaired by
the terms of this subchapter, and the authority of the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer shall be in addition and supplementary to the authority granted to such
other specific officer. An Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall, in the
performance of the officer’s duties, be subordinate and responsible to the
Supervisor or such other Township Board member as the Township Board may from
time to time designate.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 32.18  DUTIES.
   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer’s duties shall include the following:
   (A)   Investigation of ordinance violations;
   (B)   Issuing and serving ordinance violation notices;
   (C)   Issuing aid serving appearance tickets as authorized under 1968 Public
Act 147, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c;
   (D)   Issuing and serving municipal ordinance violation notices and
municipal civil infraction citations as authorized under Public Act 12 of 1994,
as it may from time to time be amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq.;
   (E)   Appearance in court or other judicial or quasi judicial proceedings to
assist in the prosecution of ordinance violators; and
   (F)   Such other ordinance enforcing duties as may be delegated by the
Township Board, Township Supervisor, or other township official authorized to
assign such duties.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 3-16-2011)
CHAPTER 33:  EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Hazardous Materials Cost Recovery Regulations
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Charges imposed upon a responsible party or parties
   
33.04   Billing procedures
   
33.05   Non-exclusive charges
   
33.06   Other remedies
Fire and Emergency Services Fee
   
33.15   Title
   
33.16   Purpose
   
33.17   Fire and emergency services fee
   
33.18   Services for which fire and emergency services fee is imposed
   
33.19   Billing procedures
   
33.20   Exemption
   
33.21   Non-exclusive fee
   
33.22   Multiple beneficiaries
   
33.23   Violation and sanctions
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COST RECOVERY REGULATIONS
§ 33.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the within chapter is to provide for defraying a portion of
expenses of the township resulting from the township responding with emergency
equipment and personnel to a hazardous materials accident or incident involving
the release or threatened release of hazardous materials into the environment
which requires emergency attention to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as defined, unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to explosives,
pyrotechnics, flammable gas, flammable compressed gas, non-flammable compressed
gas, flammable liquid, combustible liquid, oxidizing material, poisonous gas,
poisonous liquid, irritating material, etiologic material, radioactive
material, corrosive material, liquefied petroleum gas, and other materials
customarily considered dangerous to living beings or contaminating to the
environment.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or deposit into the environment.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity that is responsible for a release of a hazardous
material, either actual or threatened, or is an owner, tenant, occupant or
party in control of property onto which or from which hazardous materials are
released.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.03  CHARGES IMPOSED UPON A RESPONSIBLE PARTY OR PARTIES.
   Where the township's fire department or designee responds to a release of
hazardous materials or a threatened release of such materials, the responsible
party or parties shall be liable to the township for the following costs
incident to such township response:
   (A)   All personnel costs of all personnel attending on behalf of and with
the authority of the township including their current hourly rate, fringe
benefits, and salary apportioned to the length of time in attendance,
calculated commencing one hour after receipt of the signal to respond and
continuing for each personnel until that personnel has concluded his or her
incident related responsibilities.
   (B)   The equipment costs of all equipment attending as established by an
itemized resolution of the Township Board setting forth the costs attributable
to each piece of township equipment which might be involved in such a response.
This resolution may be amended from time to time to reflect changes in
equipment, inflation factors, and accounting records of past occurrences.
   (C)   Other expenses incurred by the township, Sister Lakes Volunteer Fire
Department, and/or Indian Lake Volunteer Fire Department, including but not
limited to rental or purchase of additional machinery or equipment, retention
of consultants, medical and hospitalization costs, replacement costs related to
disposable personnel protective equipment required to be disposed of,
extinguishing chemicals, supplies and water purchased from water systems, and
meals and refreshments for emergency personnel while responding to the
hazardous materials incident.
   (D)   Additional charges imposed by any other local, state or federal
government entities, related to the incident.
   (E)   Administrative costs incurred in accounting for all expenditures and
for billing and collection of such expenditures which shall not exceed 25% of
the foregoing costs.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.04  BILLING PROCEDURES.
   Following the conclusion of the hazardous materials incident, the Indian
Lake Volunteer Fire Department Chief or the Sister Lakes Volunteer Fire
Department Chief (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Township Fire
Chief”) shall submit a detailed listing of all known expenses to the Township
Treasurer or his/her designee, who shall prepare an invoice to the responsible
party(ies). Said invoice shall demand full payment within 45 days of the
receipt of the bill. Any additional expenses that become known to the Township
Fire Chief following the transmittal of the bill to the responsible party(ies)
shall be billed in the same manner on a subsequent bill to the responsible
party(ies). For any amounts due that remain unpaid after 45 days, the township
shall impose a late charge of 1% per month or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 5-10-2017; Ord. 021-06, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 33.05  NON-EXCLUSIVE CHARGES.
   The foregoing rates and charges shall not be exclusive of other charges that
may be made by the township for the costs and expense of maintaining a fire
and/or police department, but shall only be supplemental thereto. Charges may
additionally be collected by the township through general taxation after a vote
of the electors approving the same, or by special assessments established under
Michigan statutes pertinent thereto.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.06  OTHER REMEDIES.
   The township may pursue any other remedy, or may institute any appropriate
action or proceeding, in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect charges
imposed under this chapter. The recovery of charges imposed under this chapter
does not limit the further liability of responsible parties under local
ordinance or state or Federal law, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 5-10-2017)
FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES FEE
§ 33.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be entitled the “Silver Creek Township Fire and
Emergency Services Fee Ordinance.”
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.16  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of partially financing certain
specified types of fire and emergency services enumerated herein furnished to
persons who are neither residents nor owners of real property in Silver Creek
township and therefore not subject to taxes or special assessments and to also
help defray the costs of providing certain other specified types of fire and
emergency services from those receiving direct benefits from those services.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.17  FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES FEE.
   A recipient or beneficiary of any of the enumerated fire emergency services
set forth in §
33.18 of this subchapter rendered in Silver Creek Township by or on behalf of
the Indian Lake Volunteer Fire Department or the Sister Lakes Volunteer Fire
Department (hereinafter "Fire and Rescue Department") in Silver Creek Township
shall be responsible for payment to Silver Creek Township of a fire and
emergency services fee for the actual cost of providing such services in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, including, but not limited
to, costs incurred for incident abatement, mitigation, clean-up, mutual aid,
and stand-by service for the scene or incident. Such costs shall include, but
are not limited to:
   (A)   All personnel costs of all personnel attending on behalf of and with
the authority of the township including their current hourly rate, fringe
benefits, and salary apportioned to the length of time in attendance,
calculated commencing one hour after receipt of the signal to respond and
continuing for each personnel until that personnel has concluded his or her
incident related responsibilities.
   (B)   The equipment costs of all equipment attending as established by an
itemized resolution of the Township Board setting forth the costs attributable
to each piece of equipment which might be involved in such a response. This
subchapter may be amended from time to time to reflect changes in equipment,
inflation factors, and accounting records of past occurrences.
   (C)   Other expenses incurred by the Township, including but not limited to,
rental or purchase of additional machinery or equipment, retention of
consultants, medical and hospitalization costs, replacement costs related to
disposable personnel protective equipment required to be disposed of,
extinguishing chemicals, supplies and water purchased from water systems, and
meals and refreshments for emergency personnel while responding to the
incident.
   (D)   Additional charges imposed by any other local, state or federal
government entities, related to the incident.
   (E)   Administrative costs incurred in accounting for all expenditures and
for billing and collection of such expenditures, which shall not exceed 25% of
the foregoing costs.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.18  SERVICES FOR WHICH FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES FEE IS IMPOSED.
   A fire and emergency services fee calculated in accordance with §
33.17 of this subchapter shall be imposed for Fire and Rescue Departments and
other Township services rendered in response to the following types of
emergency incidents causing attendance of Fire and Rescue Departments personnel
and/or equipment:
   (A)   False alarm (i.e., an emergency services call to a site when no actual
emergency exists), if there have been three or more prior false alarm calls to
the same property within the past year.
   (B)   Incident involving spills onto a public or private road by a vehicle
or trailer of non-hazardous materials (i.e., materials that are not HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS as defined in §
33.02) of such quantity as to require Fire and Rescue Department assistance in
either removing the material from the road or in limiting access to the road
until the material is removed.
   (C)   Fires caused by the illegal presence at the site of:
      (1)   Methamphetamine or any other controlled substance as defined under
MCL 333.7104(2);  or
      (2)   Chemicals and/or equipment being used for the illegal production of
such a controlled substance.
   (D)   Emergency Fire and Rescue Department stand-by requested by the Cass
County Sheriff's Department or other law enforcement agency at a site where
methamphetamine or any other controlled substance as defined under MCL 333.7104
(2) is being illegally kept or produced.
   (E)   A vehicle accident involving a vehicle owned by a party who neither
resides in the township nor owns real property within the township.
Notwithstanding §
33.22, the imposition of a fire emergency services fee for response to this
type of incident shall be limited to those beneficiaries that neither own real
property within the township nor reside within the township.
   (F)   A grass, brush or debris fire or bonfire not authorized or permitted
by township ordinance, by state statute or by any required permit from the Fire
and Rescue Department.
   (G)   A fire or potential fire caused by a fireworks display not authorized
or permitted by township ordinance or state statute.
   (H)   A fire caused by proven or admitted arson by the owner of the premises
or item subject to the fire.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.19  BILLING PROCEDURES.
   Following the conclusion of the emergency incident, the Indian Lake
Volunteer Fire Department Chief or the Sister Lakes Volunteer Fire Department
Chief (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Township Fire Chief”) shall
submit a detailed listing of all known expenses to the Township Treasurer or
his/her designee, who shall prepare an invoice to the responsible party(ies).
Said invoice shall demand full payment within 45 days of the receipt of the
bill. Any additional expenses that become known to the Township Fire Chief
following the transmittal of the bill to the responsible party(ies) shall be
billed in the same manner on a subsequent bill to the responsible party(ies).
For any amounts due that remain unpaid after 45 days, the township shall impose
a late charge of 1% per month or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017; Ord. 021-06, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 33.20  EXEMPTION.
   All Federal, state, county, municipal and other public bodies shall be
exempt from the foregoing fee.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.21  NON-EXCLUSIVE FEE.
   The foregoing fee shall not be exclusive of the charges that may be made by
the township for the costs and expenses of maintaining a Fire and Rescue
Department, but shall only be supplemental thereto. Monies may additionally be
collected by the township through general taxation after a vote of the election
approving the same or by a special assessment established under the Michigan
statutes pertinent thereto. General fund appropriations may also be made to
cover such additional costs and expenses. The fees imposed under this chapter
shall be deemed supplemental to the separate charges imposed under §§
33.01 et seq.  Fire and Rescue Department responses to incidents involving the
release or threatened release of HAZARDOUS MATERIALS as defined under §
33.02.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.22  MULTIPLE BENEFICIARIES.
   When a particular emergency service of the type enumerated in §
33.18 benefits more than one person or property, the owner of each property so
benefited and each person so benefited shall be liable for the payment of the
full charge for such service hereinbefore outlined. The interpretation and
application of the within section is hereby delegated to the Fire Chief subject
only to appeal, within the time limits for payment, to the Silver Creek
Township Board and shall be administered so that fees shall only be collected
from the beneficiary(ies) of the service. A "beneficiary" shall be defined for
purposes of this section as any individual, corporation, association,
partnership, joint venture or other legal entity that:
   (A)   Caused the incident requiring Fire and Rescue Department services;
   (B)   Is an owner and/or occupant or party in control of property from which
the materials involved in the incident were released or spilled;
   (C)   Is the owner or lessee of the vehicle or trailer from which the
materials involved in the incident were released or spilled;
   (D)   Is the owner of the materials involved in the incident which were
released or spilled; and
   (E)   In the case of an incident involving a false alarm call, the owner
and/or lessee of the property which was the subject of the call.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
§ 33.23  VIOLATION AND SANCTIONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity who neglects or refuses to pay the foregoing fire
and emergency services fee within 45 days of the billing for the same shall be
deemed to have committed a municipal civil infraction as defined by Michigan
statute and shall be punished by a civil fine in addition to the payment of the
required fee in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   One hundred dollars for each day that the aforesaid fee remains
unpaid after the due date thereof but not to exceed $500.
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses direct and indirect which the Township of Silver Creek has incurred in
connection with the municipal civil infraction, in no case, however, shall
costs of less than $9 be ordered.
   (B)   In addition to the above, the township may pursue any other remedy, or
may institute any appropriate action or proceeding, in a court of competent
jurisdiction to collect fees imposed under this subchapter. The recovery of
fees imposed under this subchapter does not limit the further liability of
responsible parties under focal ordinance or state or federal law, rule or
regulation.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-10-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SISTER LAKES AREA SEWER SYSTEMS
      
51.   INDIAN LAKE WASTEWATER SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50:  SISTER LAKES AREA SEWER SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Title
   
50.002   Contract requirements
   
50.003   State and federal requirements
   
50.004   Incorporation of findings from the City of Dowagiac
   
50.005   Public health, safety, and welfare
   
50.006   Measure of sewer use by metering of water supply
   
50.007   Definitions
Use of Public Sewer System Required
   
50.020   Discharge of sewage
   
50.021   Sewage disposal facilities
   
50.022   Mandatory connection of properties in Special Assessment District and
M-51 Interceptor Service District
   
50.023   Mandatory connection of new construction in service district outside
Special Assessment District and M-51 Interceptor Service District
   
50.024   Connection of existing improved properties in service district outside
Special Assessment District and the M-51 Interceptor Service District
   
50.025   Connection deadline
   
50.026   Enforcement in the event of a failure to connect
   
50.027   Extensions of public sewer system to service new developments inside
the service district
   
50.028   Connection of premises located outside the service district
   
50.029   Conditions for extension of public sewer system by property owner
   
50.030   Sewer extension agreements
Private Sewage Disposal
   
50.045   Private sewage disposal facilities
   
50.046   Operation and maintenance
   
50.047   Governmental requirements
   
50.048   Connection to public sewer system; abandonment
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.060   Permit requirement
   
50.061   Permit application
   
50.062   Approval of application
   
50.063   Building sewer replacement
   
50.064   Excavations, pipe laying, and backfill
   
50.065   Connection of building sewer
   
50.066   Connection of certain drains is prohibited
   
50.067   Public safety requirements; restoration
   
50.068   Cost of installation of building sewer and connection to public sewer
indemnification
   
50.069   Inspection
   
50.070   Township’s responsibility for repairs, operation, and maintenance
   
50.071   Property owner’s responsibility for repairs, operation, and
maintenance
   
50.072   Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
50.085   Public utility basis; fiscal year
   
50.086   Connection fee
   
50.087   User charge
   
50.088   User surcharge
   
50.089   Miscellaneous customer fee
   
50.090   Inspection fee
   
50.091   Billing of sewer rates and charges
   
50.092   Unpaid sewer rates and charges; time price differential
   
50.093   Unpaid sewer rates and charges; remedies
   
50.094   Lien
   
50.095   No free service
   
50.096   Rental properties
   
50.097   Cancellation of permits; disconnection of service
   
50.098   Security deposit
   
50.099   Billing address
   
50.100   Interruption of service; claims
Revenues
   
50.115   Estimated rates; sufficiency
   
50.116   Revenues; depository
Administrative Appeals; Board of Appeals
   
50.130   Informal hearing
   
50.131   Board of Appeals
   
50.132   Appeals from informal hearing
   
50.133   Payment of amounts outstanding
   
50.134   Effect of administrative action
   
50.135   Appeal from Board of Appeals
Enforcement
   
50.150   Inspection
   
50.151   Damage to system
   
50.152   Notice to cease and desist
   
50.153   Nuisance; abatement
   
50.154   Liability for expenses
   
50.155   Remedies are cumulative
Miscellaneous
   
50.170   Repeal of conflicts
   
50.171   Severability
   
50.172   State and federal law requirements
   
50.173   Subchapter and section headings
   
50.174   Reservation of right to amend
   
50.175   Schedule of residential equivalent factors
   
50.176   Service district
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Sister Lakes Sewer Connection and Rate
Chapter, and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.002  CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (together with
the M-51 Interceptor referenced below, defined in Section 201 (28) as the
“Public Sewer System”) was established in accordance with the Sister Lakes
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System Contract, dated September 1, 2000, as amended
by the First Amendment to Sister Lakes Sanitary Sewage Disposal System Contract
dated as of March 1, 2001, (together, as defined in Section 201(10), the
“Contract”), by and between the County of Van Buren (as defined in Section 201
(11), the “County”), the County of Cass, the Township of Silver Creek (as
defined in Section 201 (42), the “Township”) and the Sister Lakes Area Utility
Authority (as defined in Section 201(1), the “Authority”), to promote the
health and welfare of the residents of the Township.
   (B)   The Authority is required by the terms of the Contract to operate,
maintain, and administer the Public Sewer System as the agency for the County
and the Townships and to pay all costs related to the Public Sewer System
including debt service on the bonds issued by the County from revenues provided
by the Townships in accordance with the Contract. The Township is further
required by the terms of the Agreement for Sanitary Sewage Disposal Service,
dated as of March 1, 2001, as amended (as defined in § 50.007, the “Wastewater
Treatment Agreement”) by and between the County, the Township, the Authority,
and the City of Dowagiac (as defined in § 50.007, the “City”), and approved by
Keeler pursuant to which the City has agreed to accept and treat the Sewage
from the Public Sewer System at the City’s wastewater treatment plant (as
defined in § 50.007, the “Wastewater Treatment Plant”) and by the terms of the
Agreement for Billing/Monitoring/Operation and Maintenance of Sanitary Sewer
Collection System dated as of May 14, 2001 (as defined in § 50.007, the
“Operation and Maintenance Agreement”) by and between the City, and the
Authority and consented to by the County and the Townships, pursuant to which
the City has agreed to operate and maintain the Public Sewer System and to bill
the Users of the Public Sewer System, to adopt by ordinance such rates,
regulations and restrictions applicable to the use of the Public Sewer System
that are not less restrictive than those in effect in the City with respect to
the Wastewater Treatment Plant and which enable the City to comply with all
state and federal laws and regulations applicable to the treatment and
discharge of Sewage.
   (C)   In addition, the City transferred ownership of the M-51 Interceptor to
the County in accordance with the Wastewater Treatment Agreement, which
ownership shall revert to the Authority upon payment in full of the bonds
issued by the County in accordance with the Contract, Accordingly, it is
necessary for the Township to establish rates and charges for services to
persons using the Public Sewer System in amounts necessary to operate, maintain
and administer the Public Sewer System and to pay debt service on the bonds
issued by the County in accordance with the Contract, and to adopt an ordinance
that requires users of the Public Sewer System to pay rates and charges for
sewer, collection and disposal services. It is the purpose of the Township by
enacting and keeping in force and effect this chapter to comply with the
foregoing requirements of the Contract, the Wastewater Treatment Agreement and
the Operation and Maintenance Agreement and to protect and promote the health
and welfare of the residents of the Township.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.003  STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter, together with the Indian Lake Wastewater Sewer System (Ord.
89-1), sets forth uniform requirements for Users of the Public Sewer System and
enables the Township to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.004  INCORPORATION OF FINDINGS FROM THE CITY OF DOWAGIAC.
   (A)   The Township hereby incorporates in its entirety and adopts as
Township findings and objectives for this Sewer Connection and Rate Chapter the
findings and objectives made and established by the City of Dowagiac in § 8-61
of City of Dowagiac Code.
   (B)   In addition, the objectives of this chapter include the following:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Sewage System
which will interfere with the operation of the Public Sewer, the City
Collection System, or the Wastewater Treatment Plant System, or contaminate the
resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Public Sewer
System which will pass through the Public Sewer System, the City Collection
System, or the Wastewater Treatment Plant inadequately treated into the
receiving stream or the atmosphere, or otherwise be incompatible with the
Public Sewer System, the City Collection System or the Wastewater Treatment
Plant;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the Public Sewer System;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the Public
Sewer System; and
      (5)   To protect the physical integrity of the Public Sewer System, the
City Collection System, and the Wastewater Treatment Plant, and to provide for
the safety of the public and workers on and in the Public Sewer System, the
City Collection System, or the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.005  PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELFARE.
   The Township hereby determines that the Public Sewer System is immediately
necessary to protect and preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of the
Township. This determination is based upon:
   (A)   The 1999 Water and Sewer Master Plan prepared for the county by
Wightman Associates, Inc. stated that:
      “Cass County is fortunate to have a variety of natural features including
lakes, streams, forests, and parks which have attracted and will continue to
attract significant residential development. This is best exemplified by the
urbanized development surrounding most of the lakes within the county. Existing
commercial and industrial development provides jobs for residents and others.
With the anticipated growth in commercial and industrial jobs, additional
residential development is needed.”
   (B)   And made the following finding:
      “It has been concluded that the construction of public wastewater
collection and treatment systems to serve the urbanized areas of Cass County is
a necessity to protect the surface waters for future generations and to protect
the ground waters for continued use as a potable water source.”
   (C)   The Master Plan also stated the following:
      “Consideration of sanitary sewers in the Sister Lakes Area began in the
early 1970s when a Facilities Plan was prepared, funded by a grant from the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. The study recommended
construction of sanitary sewers to service the developed area surrounding the
six lakes within the service area.
      * * *
      In 1998, Silver Creek and Keeler Townships funded a water quality study
of the lakes. This study was completed to verify the need for a sewer system to
maintain and improve lake water quality. The results documented that septic
system effluent contributed between 20% and 51% of the phosphorus loading
entering various lakes within the service area. It reconfirmed that the lakes
are becoming eutrophic due to the amount of phosphorus being added to the water
and concluded that the construction of sanitary sewers would reduce the inflow
of phosphorus sufficiently to remove the lakes from the eutrophic state. This
report documented the need for a wastewater collection and treatment system for
the protection of lake water quality in the future. The Sister Lakes Wastewater
Service Area includes all residential and commercial development surrounding
all six lakes located in Silver Creek and Keeler Townships...”
   (D)   Finally, the Master Plan recommended that the Sister lakes Area in
Silver Creek Township be considered for construction of a wastewater system by
2004.
   (E)   The express determination of the State Legislature set forth in §
333.12752 of the Michigan Public Health Code and which reads as follows: “Sec.
12752. Public sanitary sewer systems are essential to the health, safety, and
welfare of the people of the state. Septic tank disposal systems are subject to
failure due to soil conditions or other reasons. Failure or potential failure
of septic tank disposal systems poses a threat to the public health, safety,
and welfare; presents a potential for ill health, transmission of disease,
mortality, and economic blight; and constitutes a threat to the quality of
surface and subsurface waters of this state. The connection to available public
sanitary sewer systems at the earliest, reasonable date is a matter for the
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare and necessary in the
public interest which is declared as a matter of legislative determination.”
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.006  MEASURE OF SEWER USE BY METERING OF WATER SUPPLY.
   The Township hereby finds that the metering of domestic water supply is the
best available technology for measuring with relative precision the discharge
to, and the use of, the Public Sewer System.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.007  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY.  The Sister Lakes Area Utility Authority.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.  A public gravity flow sanitary
sewer system (tapped or untapped) located in a right-of-way, easement, highway,
street, or public way which crosses, adjoins, or abuts upon waterfront
properties and passes within 600 feet at the nearest point of a Structure in
which Sanitary Sewer Originates and, with respect to properties which are not
waterfront properties, passes not more than 250 feet at the nearest point from
a Structure in which Sanitary Sewage Originates.
   BENEFIT COMPONENT.  A portion of the Connection Fee which is based upon
Units.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge of Sewage inside of the walls of the
building and conveys said discharge to the Building Sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the Building Drain which conveys the
discharge of Sewage to the Service Connection or other place of disposal.
   CITY.  The City of Dowagiac, Michigan.
   CITY COLLECTION SYSTEM.  The portion of the City of Dowagiac’s sanitary
sewer system which collects Sewage from the M-51 Interceptor at the
intersection of West Prairie Ronde Street and North Orchard Street in the City
and transports the Sewage therefrom to the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
   COMMON FUND.  The fund established to receive collections of Sewer Rates and
Charges and special assessments pursuant to paragraph ten of the Contract and
held and administered by the Authority in accordance with the Contract.
   CONNECTION FEE.  The charge imposed by the Township to grant permission to
connect a Building Sewer to the Public Sewer System. This FEE represents a
portion of the cost attributable to a Premises for making the System available
to service said premises and includes a Benefit Component and a Frontage
Component. (See also DIRECT CONNECTION and INDIRECT CONNECTION).
   CONTRACT.  The Sister Lakes Sanitary Sewage Disposal System Contract, dated
September 1, 2000, as amended by the First Amendment to Sister Lakes Sanitary
Sewer Disposal System Contract dated as of March 1, 2001, by and between the
County, the County of Cass, the Townships and the Authority.
   COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.  All costs, direct and indirect,
inclusive of all expenditures attributable to administration, Cost of
Replacement, treatment (in accordance with the Wastewater Treatment Agreement)
and collection of Sewage, necessary to ensure adequate collection,
transportation, and treatment of Sewage on a continuing basis in conformance
with the City’s discharge permit, and other applicable local, state, and
federal regulations.
   COST OF REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures and costs for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the system to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
System was designed and constructed.
   COUNTY.  The County of Van Buren, Michigan, acting by and through its Board
of Public Works pursuant to Public Act 185 of 1957, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 123.731 through 123.786.
   DIRECT CONNECTION.  The connection of the Building Sewer directly to the
Public Sewer System.
   DRAINAGE VIOLATION FEE.  A drainage violation fee in an amount per month per
unit determined from time to time by resolution of the Township Board shall be
charged periodically to the owner of a premises connected to the Public Sewer
System for the drainage service rendered to the premises:
      (1)   If the premises has a footing drain or drains connected to the
Public Sewer System or there is a discharge from the premises of, or the owner
or any occupant of the premises shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any
storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, unpolluted air conditioning water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to the Public Sewer System, in violation of this chapter or the
Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System; or
      (2)   In the event the owners or occupants of a premises shall deny
access to the Township, the Authority, the County, or the City or an authorized
representative thereof, including the Township Inspector, bearing proper
credentials and identification, to the premises between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. during any weekday or at such other time as may be reasonable,
which access has been requested by mail or in person for the purpose of
inspection of the premises for any such connections or discharges of the type
set forth in division (1) above. For a premises with an unauthorized drainage
connection, the DRAINAGE VIOLATION FEE shall accrue as of the date of the
connection, provided that a drainage violation fee shall not be charged for
more than one year past drainage service. When access to a premises is denied
under this division (2), said drainage violation fee shall accrue 30 days after
notice by certified mail is given to the owner of such failure to gain access.
Any changes or corrections to eliminate any such connection or discharge must
be approved by the Township and the drainage violation fee shall continue until
such approval is given.
   DWELLING UNIT.  For purposes of assigning units, a DWELLING UNIT shall
contain, at a minimum: sleeping facilities; a toilet, bath, or shower; and a
kitchen.
   FRONTAGE COMPONENT.  A portion of the Connection Fee which is based upon
assessable frontage of the lot adjacent to an Available Public Sanitary Sewer
System.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  Cass County Health Department.
   INDIRECT CONNECTION.  The connection of a Building Sewer to a sewage
collection system which is installed to applicable Township specification and
approval and paid for by special assessment or private funds, which Sewage
collection system serves multiple Users and is, after construction, turned over
to the Township and becomes part of the Public Sewer System (e.g., if a
developer constructs sanitary sewers in a plat and connects the collection
sewers to the Public Sewer System, the connection of each lot in the plat would
be an Indirect Connection).
   INSPECTION FEE.  The amount charged to each applicant by the Township at the
time an application is made to the Township for connection, disconnection, or
reconnection to the Public Sewer System to cover the routine cost of inspecting
and approving the physical connection of a Building Sewer and Service
Connection to the Public Sewer System, and the issuance of a connection permit.
   KEELER.  The Township of Keeler, located in Van Buren County, Michigan.
   M-51 INTERCEPTOR.  The existing sanitary sewer interceptor which is located
in Silver Creek Township and extends parallel to M-51 from Five Mile Corner to
the City and consists of the 15-inch diameter gravity interceptor between Five
Mile Corner and Dowagiac Creek, the lift station at Dowagiac Creek, and the
ten-inch diameter force main interceptor from Dowagiac Creek to the City’s
existing 18-inch diameter sanitary sewer located at the intersection of West
Prairie Ronde Street and North Orchard Street in the City.
   M-51 INTERCEPTOR SERVICE DISTRICT.  That portion of the service district
which is set fourth (by cross-batching) on Figure 2 in §
50.176.
   MAY.  The act referred to is both permissible and approved.
   MDEQ.  Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MISCELLANEOUS CUSTOMER FEE.  The amount charged to Users for miscellaneous
services and related administrative costs associated with the System.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a Watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NUISANCE.  Without limitation, any condition where Sewage or the effluent
from any Sewage disposal facility is exposed to the surface of the ground, or
is permitted to drain on or to the surface of the ground or into any Natural
Outlet.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.  The Agreement for Billing/Monitoring/
Operation and Maintenance of Sanitary Sewer Collection System dated as of May
14, 2001, by and between the City and the Authority and consented to by the
County and the Townships.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM or SYSTEM.  The sanitary sewer collection and
interceptor system, known generally as the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage
Disposal System, and the M-51 Interceptor, including all publicly-owned service
connections, mains, lift stations, odor control facilities, and all
appurtenances thereto.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A watertight tank or receptacle used to receive Normal
Domestic Sewage and intended to provide for the separation of substantial
portions of the Suspended Solids in such Sewage and the partial decomposition
by bacterial action on solids so separated.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The portion of the Public Sewer System which extends
either to or onto the parcel of land adjacent to the path of the Public Sewer
System, and includes the tee/wye, the Sewer Lateral, and appurtenances. The
SERVICE CONNECTION does not include the Building Sewer.
   SERVICE DISTRICT.  The lands located in the Township and served by the
Public Sewer System, including the M-51 Interceptor Service District, as set
forth in Figure 1 and Figure 2 in §
50.176.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.  Any Septic Tank, Subsurface Disposal System, or
other devices used in the disposal of Sewage and which are not part of the
Public Sewer System.
   SEWER ADMINISTRATOR.  Initially, the Township Supervisor or the person
appointed in replacement thereof by resolution of the Township Board, who shall
be responsible for the overall administration of the Public Sewer System.
   SEWER LATERAL.  That portion of the service connection which connects to the
sewer main located in the public right-of-way and extends therefrom to the
property line.
   SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.  The Connection Fee, Inspection Fee, User Charge,
User Surcharge, Miscellaneous Customer Fee, Pretreatment Rates and Charges,
drainage violation fee and the civil penalty imposed pursuant to §
50.025.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE.  The Sister Lakes Sewer Use Ordinance as adopted by the
Township.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT.  All Special Assessment Districts determined at
any time by the Township Board within the Service District for the provision of
sanitary sewer service by the Public Sewer System, including, without
limitation, Sanitary Sewer Special Assessment District No. 1 (Sister Lakes).
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.  All Special Assessment Rolls confirmed at any time
for a Special Assessment District by the Township Board.
   STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES.  A building in which toilet,
kitchen, laundry, bathing, or other facilities which generate Sewage or
Industrial Wastes are used or are available for use for household, commercial,
industrial, or other purposes.
   SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  An arrangement for distribution of septic tank
effluent beneath the ground surface (also referred to as a “drainfield system”,
“tile field”, or a “soil absorption system”).
   TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Silver Creek, located in Cass County, Michigan,
and/or its duly authorized agent or representative.
   TOWNSHIP INSPECTOR.  The person responsible for inspecting connections of
Building Sewers and Service Connections to the Public Sewer System as
designated by the Township.
   TOWNSHIPS.  The Township of Silver Creek and the Township of Keeler.
   UNIT or UNITS.  A standard basis of measuring the relative quantity of
Sewage, including the benefits derived from the disposal thereof, arising from
the occupancy of a freestanding single-family residential dwelling (but such
term shall not necessarily be related to actual use arising from any particular
dwelling). A listing of the relative relationships between the various Users of
the System is hereby determined by the Township and is set forth in §
50.175. The assignment of UNIT(S) to a particular User shall be determined from
time to time by the Township, based upon the use to which the User’s property
is put. Each User shall be assigned a minimum of one UNIT. A building
containing multiple Users shall be assigned a minimum of one Unit for each
User. The assignment of UNIT(S) for any use not enumerated in §
50.175 shall, in the sole discretion of the Township, be based upon the most
similar use enumerated in §
50.175.
   USER.  A person who introduces into or discharges into, including both the
owner and occupant of real estate from which is introduced or discharged into
the Public Sewer System, any substance whatever.
   USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on Users of the System which represents that
User’s share of the Cost of Operation and Maintenance (including Cost of
Replacement) of the System and which may also include a share of the principal,
interest, and administrative costs of retiring the debt incurred for
construction of the Public Sewer System.
   USER CLASS.  The classification of Users connected to sanitary sewers
including, but not limited to, residential, industrial, commercial,
institutional, and governmental.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER.  An establishment listed in the Office of the
Management and Budget’s “Standard Industrial Classification Manual” (the
“SICM”), involved in a commercial enterprise, business, or service which, based
on a determination by the Township, discharges primarily segregated Normal
Domestic Sewage and which is not a Residential User or an Industrial User.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER.  Any federal, state, or local government user of
the system.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER.  A User of the System which discharges Industrial
Wastes, as distinct from its employees’ Normal Domestic Sewage.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER.  Any establishment listed in the SICM involved
in a social, charitable, religious, or educational function which, based on the
determination by the Township, discharges primarily segregated Normal Domestic
Sewage.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER.  A User of the system whose premises or buildings
are used primarily as a domicile for one or more persons including Dwelling
Units such as detached, semi-detached and row houses, mobile homes, apartments,
or permanent multi-family dwellings (transit lodging is not included, it is
considered a Commercial User).
   USER SURCHARGE.  A charge imposed on a User of the System for discharges of
Sewage that are in excess of Normal Strength Sewage.
   U.S. EPA.  The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT AGREEMENT.  The agreement for Sanitary Sewage Disposal
Service between the City, the Township, the Authority, and the County, and
approved by Keeler, dated as of March 1, 2001, as amended, pursuant to which
the City has agreed to treat at the Wastewater Treatment Plant the sanitary
sewage collected by the Public Sewer System.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.  The publicly-owned physical plant and
appurtenances designated to receive and treat the raw, untreated Sewage of the
properties located in the Service District and served by the Public Sewer
System, and owned by the City.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 01-04, passed 12-12-2001; Ord. 09-07, passed
9-9-2009)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED
§ 50.020  DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE.
   No Person shall discharge to any Natural Outlet within the service district
any Sewage, Industrial Wastes, or other polluted waters except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with standards established by the
City, the MDEQ, U.S. EPA, and this chapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.021  SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no Person shall construct or maintain in
the Service District any Sewage Disposal Facilities.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022  MANDATORY CONNECTION OF PROPERTIES IN SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT AND
M-51 INTERCEPTOR SERVICE DISTRICT.
   All owners of Structures in which Sanitary Sewage Originates, now situated
or hereafter constructed within the Special Assessment District or the M-51
Interceptor Service District, are hereby required at their expense to install
suitable plumbing fixtures and connect such facilities directly with the
Available Public Sanitary Sewer System in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. The Township may require any such owners, pursuant to the
authority conferred upon the Township by law or ordinance, to make such
installations or connections which must have the approval (during and after
construction) of the Township Inspector.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 01-04, passed 12-12-2001)
§ 50.023  MANDATORY CONNECTION OF NEW CONSTRUCTION IN SERVICE DISTRICT OUTSIDE
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT AND M-51 INTERCEPTOR SERVICE DISTRICT.
   All owners of parcels located in the Service District, but outside the
Special Assessment District and the M-51 Interceptor Service District, which
are presently undeveloped and which are hereafter improved by a Structure in
which Sanitary Sewage Originates shall be required to connect to the Available
Public Sanitary Sewer System in the manner provided by §§
50.022 and
50.025.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 01-04, passed 12-12-2001)
§ 50.024  CONNECTION OF EXISTING IMPROVED PROPERTIES IN SERVICE DISTRICT
OUTSIDE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT AND THE M-51 INTERCEPTOR SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Owners of all presently situated structures in which Sanitary Sewage
Originates, which are located in the Service District, but outside the Special
Assessment District and the M-51 Interceptor Service District and which are
currently served by private Sewage Disposal Facilities, shall not be required
to connect to the Available Public Sanitary Sewer System until such time as:
      (1)   New private Sewage Disposal Facilities are required;
      (2)   The existing private Sewage Disposal Facilities fail (as determined
by the Health Department); or
      (3)   Connection of all improved properties within the area in which said
premises are located is declared a necessity by the Township for the public
health and welfare.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of any such event, connection shall be made to the
Public Sewer System in accordance with §§
50.022 and
50.025. In the alternative, an owner of property subject to this section may
connect to the Public Sewer System at any time in compliance with the terms of
this chapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 01-04, passed 12-12-2001)
§ 50.025  CONNECTION DEADLINE.
   As a matter of public health, all connections to the Public Sewer System
required hereunder, shall be completed no later than 90 days after the last to
occur of the date of official notice by the Township to make said connections
or the modification of a structure so as to become a Structure in which
Sanitary Sewage Originates. Newly constructed structures required to connect
shall be connected prior to occupancy thereof. Persons who fail to complete a
required connection to the Public Sewer System within such 90-day period shall
be liable for a civil penalty equal in amount to the User Charges that would
have accrued and been payable had the connection been made as required.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.026  ENFORCEMENT IN THE EVENT OF A FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   In the event a required connection to the Public Sewer System is not made
within the time provided by §
50.025, the Township shall require the connection to be made immediately after
notice given by first class or certified mail or by posting on the property.
The notice shall give the approximate location of the Available Public Sanitary
Sewer System and shall advise the owner of the affected property of the
requirement and enforcement provisions provided by Township ordinance and state
law. In the event the required connection is not made within 90 days after the
date of mailing or posting of the written notice, the Township may bring an
action in the manner provided by law in a court of competent jurisdiction for a
mandatory injunction or court order to compel the property owner to immediately
connect the affected property to the Available Public Sanitary Sewer System.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.027  EXTENSIONS OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM TO SERVICE NEW DEVELOPMENTS INSIDE
THE SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The owners of premises located within the Service District but not
served by an Available Public Sanitary Sewer System may elect to extend the
Public Sewer System and connect his or her premises thereto, subject to the
conditions for sewer extensions set forth in §
50.029.
   (B)   The owner (or developer) of lands located in the Service District and
proposed for development (whether by site condominium, subdivision, land
division, or otherwise) for which land use approval is received after the
effective date of this chapter, shall be required to extend the Public Sewer
System and connect the premises so developed to the Public Sewer System subject
to the conditions for sewer extensions set forth in §
50.029 if the distance measured in feet from the nearest edge of the proposed
development to the nearest point of the Public Sewer System when divided by the
number of units proposed for the development equals 100 feet or less. This
division (B) shall not apply to lands improved by one single-family residence
located adjacent to the then existing terminus of the Public Sewer System.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.028  CONNECTION OF PREMISES LOCATED OUTSIDE THE SERVICE DISTRICT.
   Premises located outside the Service District shall be permitted to connect
to the Public Sewer System only upon the consent of the Township Board. The
consent of the Township Board shall be granted or denied by the Township Board
in the exercise of its reasonable discretion and shall be based upon the terms
of the Wastewater Treatment Agreement and the continued availability of
capacity in the Public Sewer System for premises located within the Service
District and may be based upon such other considerations deemed appropriate by
the Township Board and consistent with this chapter. To the extent an extension
of the Public Sewer System is required, the conditions set forth in §
50.029 shall apply. In its discretion, the Township Board may require the
person requesting the connection of premises located outside the Service
District to provide, at the sole expense of said person, an engineering report
by a consulting engineer acceptable to the Township addressing the cost and
feasibility of the proposed sewer service (and any sewer extension necessitated
thereby) in the context of the foregoing considerations.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.029  CONDITIONS FOR EXTENSION OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   If connection to the Public Sewer System is required by this chapter, but
there is no Available Public Sanitary Sewer System adjacent to the premises, or
if a property owner elects to extend the Public Sewer, such extension shall be
in accordance with the following requirements, unless modified by the terms of
a written agreement between the Township and the property owner pursuant to §
50.030.
   (A)   The sewer main shall be extended to the premises in a public right-of-
way or in an easement owned by the public adjacent to the premises in question.
If the sewer is to be extended for the purpose of serving a new development
including, but not limited to, a site condominium, subdivision, or division of
land which involves the installation of a new public or private road, the sewer
main shall be extended throughout such new road so that the sewer abuts all
units or lots within the development, within an easement dedicated to the
public if not located in a public street right-of-way.
   (B)   If a sewer main is extended to a premises, the main shall be installed
across the entire frontage of the premises served, to the border of the
adjacent premises. For developments for which a new public or private road is
constructed, the sewer main shall be extended across the entire frontage of the
development on the existing adjacent public or private road, in addition to
being extended within the new road to all lots or units within the development.
All sewer main extensions shall be located within an easement dedicated to the
public, if not located in a public street right-of-way.
   (C)   The sewer main shall be constructed in accordance with specifications
approved by the Township.
   (D)   Upon completion of the sewer main, verification by the Township
Inspector that it has been properly constructed, and proof that all contractors
have been paid for the cost thereof (including lien waivers if requested), the
sewer main shall be dedicated to the Township, without cost to the Township.
Upon acceptance of dedication, the Township shall thereafter be responsible for
maintenance of the sewer main. The Township shall be assigned, or be a third
party beneficiary of, all construction contracts and material and equipment
warranties.
   (E)   The person responsible for installing the sewer shall also reimburse
the Township for the cost of acquisition of right-of-way, if necessary,
including attorney fees, appraisal fees, cost of land title research, and all
other expenses of any condemnation proceedings. The person responsible for
installing the sewer shall pay an amount to the Township, in advance, at least
equal to the estimated fees for such acquisition. Any excess not required to
complete the improvements shall be refunded to the responsible party; any
shortfall shall be paid before connection of any premises is permitted.
   (F)   The entire cost of installation of the sewer main including, but not
limited to, engineering, construction, permits, and restoration shall be paid
by the owner or owners of the premises to whom sewer is being extended.
   (G)   In addition to the extension of a sewer main as required, the owner of
premises to be connected to the system shall reimburse the Township for the
cost of making improvements to downstream facilities, which are necessary as a
result of the additional connections proposed to be made by the owner of the
premises or by a development which will be provided with public sewer
including, but not limited to, increasing the size of downstream sewer mains to
provide sufficient capacity, increase in the capacity of lift stations, and
increase in treatment capacity of the Wastewater Treatment Plant. In such a
situation, the responsible party and the Township shall enter into an agreement
whereby the responsible party pays to the Township, in advance, an amount equal
to at least the estimated cost of making such improvements. Any excess not
required to complete the improvements shall be refunded to the responsible
party; any shortfall shall be paid before connection of any premises is
permitted.
   (H)   In its discretion, the Township Board may require the person
requesting the extension or required to construct an extension to provide at
the sole expense of said person an engineering report by a consulting engineer
acceptable to the Township addressing the cost and feasibility of the proposed
extension in the context of the foregoing conditions.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.030  SEWER EXTENSION AGREEMENTS.
   The Township shall have the authority to negotiate agreements for sewer
extensions with landowners, developers and other municipalities, which
agreements may take into consideration issues of demand, benefit, capacity,
necessity, timing and funding and may provide for construction advances,
prepayment of rates and charges, pay back arrangements of up to ten years and
similar matters.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 50.045  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   If a Public Sewer System is not available to a parcel of land located in the
Service District in accordance with the provisions of §§
50.020 through
50.030, the building sewer shall be connected to private Sewage Disposal
Facilities constructed in compliance with requirements of the Health Department
and the MDEQ.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.046  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private Sewage Disposal Facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Township.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.047  GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
50.045 through
50.048 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the Township, the Health Department, the MDEQ, or any other
governmental agency with jurisdiction.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.048  CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM; ABANDONMENT.
   At such time as the Public Sewer System becomes available to a parcel served
by private Sewage Disposal Facilities in accordance with §§
50.020 through
50.030, the Building Sewer shall be connected to the Public Sewer System in
compliance with this chapter and the private Sewage Disposal Facilities shall
be abandoned for sanitary use in the manner required by the Health Department.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.060  PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any portion of the Public Sewer System without
first obtaining a written permit from the Authority in accordance with §
50.061.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.061  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A property owner or his or her agent shall submit a permit application to
the Authority prior to making a connection to the Public Sewer System. This
permit application shall be on a form furnished by the Authority and shall be
accompanied by payment in full of the applicable fees determined in accordance
with §
50.086, the inspection fee and any civil penalty which has accrued pursuant to
§
50.025, the plans and specifications of all plumbing construction within the
premises (when requested), and all other information required by the Authority.
A permit for a Service Connection must be obtained prior to filing an
application with the Township for a building permit. If the building permit
expires prior to commencement of construction, then the permit for Service
Connection shall also be deemed to have expired.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.062  APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   The approval of a Service Connection permit application shall be subject to:
   (A)   Compliance with all terms of this chapter and the Sister Lakes Area
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (Ord. 01-03), including, without limitation, §
50.061, the Wastewater Treatment Agreement and the rules and regulations of the
Authority, the Health Department, the City, and the MDEQ;
   (B)   The availability of capacity in the System, including Compatible
Pollutant Capacity; and
   (C)   Compliance of the plans and specifications for connection with the
following standards for construction.
      (1)   The design, installation, and connection of the Building Sewer and
Service Connection to the Public Sewer System shall conform to requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Township (including, if applicable, recommendations of the Township Engineer).
Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by
the Township Inspector.
      (2)   The size of the Building Sewer for gravity installation shall not
be less than four inches in diameter, and for on-site pump installation, shall
not be less than two inches in diameter, and is subject to inspection by the
Township Inspector at the time of connection to the Service Connection. In the
event such inspection reveals a deficiency or non-conformity in the Building
Sewer, the connection of the Building Sewer to the Service Connection shall not
be completed or approved until the owner has corrected the said deficiency or
non-conformity to the satisfaction of the Township Inspector.
      (3)   Whenever possible, the Building Sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No Building Sewer shall be
laid parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby
be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
Where this minimum depth cannot be obtained, the Building Sewer shall be laid
at a minimum grade of one-quarter inch per foot, sloping toward the Service
Connection.
      (4)   In all buildings in which any Building Drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the Service Connection, the Sewage carried by the Building
Drain shall be lifted by means acceptable to the Township and discharged to the
Service Connection; however, operation and maintenance of all on-site lift
pumps and ejectors shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
      (5)   Where the Public Sewer System is more than 12 feet deep measured
from established street grade, a riser may be constructed on the Service
Connection using methods and materials approved by the Township.
      (6)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight.
      (7)   A separate and independent Building Sewer shall be provided for
every building; provided that in the event one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway,
the Building Sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building
and the whole considered as one building sewer.
      (8)   A suitable backwater valve shall be installed in the Building Sewer
and a cleanout shall be installed at the property line between the backwater
valve and the Public Sewer at the expense of the applicant.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.063  BUILDING SEWER REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Building Sewers which do not meet the standards for construction
provided by §
50.062(C), including in particular Building Sewers which are not watertight and
as a result either discharge Sewage to the ground or the ground water or admit
ground water to the Building Sewers are hereby declared to be a Nuisance
contrary to the preservation and protection of the public health, safety, and
welfare of the Township.
   (B)   In the event the Township determines that a Building Sewer constitutes
a Nuisance in accordance with division (A) above, the owner of record of the
affected Premises shall replace the Building Sewer within 90 days after written
notice of said determination is given by the Township and in such event the
owner of the Premises shall pay all costs and expenses related to the Building
Sewer replacement.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.064  EXCAVATIONS, PIPE LAYING, AND BACKFILL.
   All excavations, pipe laying, and backfill required for the installation of
Building Sewers and Service Connections shall be done to conform to
requirements and standards approved by the Township. No backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected and approved by the Inspector.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.065  CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The connection of the Building Sewer to the Public Sewer System shall be
made at the Service Connection.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.066  CONNECTION OF CERTAIN DRAINS IS PROHIBITED.
   No Person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior footing or
foundation drains, areaway drains, storm drains, or other points of entry of
surface runoff or ground water to a Building Sewer or Building Drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to the Public Sewer System.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.067  PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; RESTORATION.
   All excavations for Building Sewer installation and connection to the Public
Sewer System shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored at the cost of
the property owner in a manner satisfactory to the Township and all other
governmental entities having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.068  COST OF INSTALLATION OF BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER
INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation of the Building
Sewer and the connection thereof to the Public Sewer System shall be borne by
the owner of the property being connected. No such work shall be commenced
before such owner obtains any necessary permission to work in the public right-
of-way from the Township, the Cass County Road Commission, and, if applicable,
the Michigan Department of Transportation. Said owner shall indemnify the
Township from all loss or damage that may directly be caused by the
installation and connection of the Building Sewer to the Public Sewer System.
   (B)   No permits for connection to the Public Sewer System shall issue that
requires the interruption of electrical power to any lift station(s) absent the
deposit of $500 to the Authority. The owner and permit holder shall be
responsible for all costs incurred by the Authority, directly or indirectly,
caused by the interruption of power. The Authority shall return all funds from
the deposit for costs that are not incurred and the Authority shall collect all
costs in excess of $500, as indicated above.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 0903, passed 1-14-2009)
§ 50.069  INSPECTION.
   A Service Connection permittee shall notify the Township Inspector when the
Building Sewer and Service Connection are ready for inspection. The excavation
shall be left open until inspection is complete. If the Township Inspector
determines that the Building Sewer and Service Connection have been constructed
and installed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Sewer shall then be connected with the Service Connection under the observation
of the Township Inspector. The inspection shall include the installation of all
required components of the Service Connection. The inspection required by this
section shall include the abandonment of the private Sewage Disposal Facilities
in the manner required by the Health Department.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.070  TOWNSHIP’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   The cost of all repairs, operation, maintenance, and replacement of the
Public Sewer System, as well as each Service Connection, shall be borne by the
Authority as part of the Authority’s budgeted annual expense of the system,
subject to the right of the Township to impose a Miscellaneous Customer Fee in
accordance with §
50.089.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.071  PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS, OPERATION, AND
MAINTENANCE.
   The cost of all repairs, operation, maintenance, and replacements of
Building Sewers (even if located in a public right-of-way), Building Drains,
interior plumbing, and the connection of Building Sewers to the Public Sewer
Systems shall be borne by the property owner.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.072  SISTER LAKES AREA SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Discharges to and use of the Public Sewer System shall be subject to the
terms and conditions of the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System
(Ord. 01-03) and the Wastewater Treatment Agreement.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.085  PUBLIC UTILITY BASIS; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   The System shall be operated and maintained by the Authority on a
public utility basis pursuant to state law under the supervision and control of
the Authority, subject to the terms of the Contract, the Wastewater Treatment
Agreement and the Operation and Maintenance Agreement. To the extent permitted
by law, it is the intent of the Township that the Authority shall administer,
operate, and maintain the Public Sewer System, including the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal
System (Ord. 01-03), on behalf of the Township in accordance with the Contract,
the Wastewater Treatment Agreement, and the Operation and Maintenance
Agreement.
   (B)   The Authority may employ such person or persons in such capacity or
capacities as it deems advisable to carry on the efficient management and
operation of the System and may make such rules, orders, and regulations as it
deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient management and operations
of the System. The System shall be operated on a April 1 to March 31 fiscal
year. The Authority shall annually, on or before February 1 of each year,
submit for information a report to the County and the Townships on the revenues
and expenditures of the system, including a projected budget for the ensuing
fiscal year and recommendations for the Sewer Rates and Charges for such
ensuing year.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.086  CONNECTION FEE.
   The owner of all premises required by §§
50.020 through
50.030 to connect to the System shall pay a Connection Fee and an Inspection
Fee.
   (A)   Computation. The Connection fee shall be computed in the following
manner.
      (1)   For a Direct Connection to the Public Sewer System, the Benefit
Component of the Connection Fee shall be a rate per Unit established by
resolution of the Township Board from time to time.
      (2)   For an Indirect Connection to the Public Sewer System, the Benefit
Component of the Connection Fee shall be a rate per Unit established by
resolution of the Township Board from time to time,
      (3)   For a premises adjacent to an Available Public Sanitary Sewer
System, the Frontage Component shall be a rate per front foot of assessable
frontage on the Available Public Sanitary Sewer System established by
resolution of the Township Board from time to time, with a maximum assessable
frontage of 250 feet. In determining the assessable frontage of a premises with
frontage on two or more sides on an Available Public Sanitary Sewer System
(typically a corner lot), the frontage on the side of the lot which bears the
street address or the frontage on the shortest side of the lot adjacent to the
Available Public Sanitary Sewer System, whichever is less, will be considered
to be the assessable frontage.
   (B)   Cost and expense of service connection. In addition to the Connection
Fee as computed in division (A) above, the owner of the premises shall be
liable for the costs and expenses of acquiring and installing the Service
Connection pursuant to Township specification on file at the Township.
   (C)   Special assessments. Those parcels located in the Special Assessment
District and subject to a full special assessment on the Special Assessment
Roll for the Benefit Component and the Frontage Component applicable to the
parcel shall be deemed to have paid the Connection Fee and, if applicable, the
cost of acquiring and installing the Service Connection; provided, however,
that such credit shall not result in a full or partial refund of the special
assessment paid or payable pursuant to the Special Assessment Roll, unless
specifically established by the Township at the time the Special Assessment
Roll was confirmed by the Township; provided further that a partial special
assessment (levied for example, on a vacant lot) shall be offset against the
Connection Fee and, if applicable, the cost of acquiring a Service Connection.
   (D)   Multiple unit users.
      (1)   A single-family residence (including condominiums) with related
outbuildings improved by kitchen, sleeping, or bath facilities as detailed on
the Schedule of Residential Equivalent Factors in §
50.175 shall be charged a Connection Fee based upon the Unit(s) assigned to
such uses on said schedule.
      (2)   A System User which is not described in division (D)(1) above may
elect to be charged a Connection Fee based upon the Unit(s) assigned to the
User based upon the Schedule of Residential Equivalent Factors in §
50.175.
      (3)   All System Users which are not described in division (D)(1) above
or did not elect to be charged a Connection Fee in accordance with division (D)
(2) above shall have the Connection Fee determined upon the basis of the User’s
metered water usage in the following manner.
         (a)   Upon connection to the System, the User shall have a water
meter, of the size and type approved by the Township, installed on the User’s
water supply. The cost of both the meter and the installation shall be paid for
by the user with the installation to be made or approved by the Township. The
meter shall be read on a quarterly basis by the Township.
         (b)   After two years of meter readings have been obtained, Units
shall be assigned to the User’s premises based on said meter readings using an
equation, the numerator of which shall be the meter readings, in gallons,
annualized for the 24-month period and the denominator of which shall be
120,000 gallons. Seasonal businesses open for business only during specified
times of the year (for example, campgrounds with licenses to operate for
specific months only) will be adjusted to reflect only the months of seasonal
use. The resulting number of Units so determined, which shall not in any event
be less than one, shall be multiplied by the requisite Connection Fee, for a
Direct Connection or Indirect Connection, as the case may be, to determine the
Connection Fee for the premises.
   (E)   Installment payments. A User who files a permit application with the
Township within 90 days after the date of official notice by the Township to
connect to the System in accordance with §
50.025, shall be entitled to pay the Connection Fee, to the extent not offset
by a credit for a special assessment in accordance with division (C) above in
equal annual installments of principal, plus interest on the unpaid balance at
the rate of 5.76% per annum, which shall accrue from July 1, 2001, payable on
December 1 each year, pursuant to the terms of a written agreement to be
entered between the Township and said User providing for annual installment
payments to the Township for a period of years which shall not exceed 19 years,
with the final payment due no later than December 1, 2019. For a Connection Fee
determined in accordance with divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above, the first
installment shall be due and payable prior to the issuance of a permit for a
Service Connection in accordance with §
50.061. For a Connection Fee determined in accordance with division (D)(3)
above, the first installment shall be due and payable on the December 1 that
immediately follows the end of the two-year metering period.
   (F)   Cash payment. Except for installment payments permitted by the terms
of division (E) above, the Connection Fee shall be paid in cash, to the extent
not offset by a credit, prior to the issuance by the Township of a Service
Connection permit to connect to the Public Sewer System pursuant to §§
50.060 through
50.071.
   (G)   Hardship deferment. The owner or owners of a single-family residence,
in which residence said owner or owners reside and upon which a Connection Fee
has been imposed, may submit a hardship application to the Township seeking a
deferment in the partial or total payment of the Connection Fee provided for
herein, based upon a showing of financial hardship, subject to and in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   The owners of the premises shall, under oath, complete a hardship
application provided by the Township Board, and file said application, together
with all other information and documentation reasonably required by the
Township, with the Township Board not less than 60 days prior to the due date
of the Connection Fee. An application shall be completed and filed by each and
every legal and equitable interest holder in the premises, excepting financial
institutions having only security interests in the premises.
      (2)   Hardship applications shall be reviewed by the Township Board, and
after due deliberation of hardship applications, the Township Board shall
determine, in each case, whether there has been an adequate showing of
financial hardship, and shall forthwith notify the applicants of said
determination.
      (3)   An applicant aggrieved by the determination of the Township Board
may request the opportunity to appear before the Township Board in person for
the purpose of showing hardship and presenting any argument or additional
evidence. A denial of hardship following such a personal appearance before the
Township Board shall be final and conclusive.
      (4)   In the event that the Township Board makes a finding of hardship,
the Township Board shall fix the amount of partial or total deferment of the
Connection Fee, and in so doing, shall require an annual filing of financial
status by each applicant, providing that upon a material change of financial
status of an applicant, said applicant shall immediately notify the Clerk of
the Township so that a further review of the matter may be made by the Township
Board, and provided further that the duration of the deferment granted shall be
self-terminating upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
         (a)   A change in the financial status of any applicant which removes
the basis for financial hardship;
         (b)   A conveyance of any interest in the premises by any of the
applicants, including the execution of a new security interest in the premises
or extension thereof; or
         (c)   A death of any of the applicants.
      (5)   Upon a determination of the Township Board deferring all or part of
the Connection Fee, the owners of the premises shall, within one month after
such determination, execute and deliver to the Township as the secured party a
recordable security instrument covering the premises, guaranteeing payment of
the deferred amounts on or before the death of any of the applicants or, in any
event, upon the sale or transfer of the premises. The security interest shall
secure payment to the Township of an amount necessary to cover all fees and
charges deferred and all costs of installation and connection to the Public
Sewer System, if applicable. The consideration for the security interest shall
be the grant of deferment pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.087  USER CHARGE.
   (A)   Computation. A User Charge shall be charged in arrears to each
premises within the Service District connected to the Public Sewer System at a
rate per month per Unit established by resolution of the Township Board from
time to time.
   (B)   Normal domestic sewage. The User Charges imposed pursuant to this
section are applicable only to Users who discharge normal domestic Sewage. A
User who discharges toxic pollutants or Sewage into the System that does not
qualify as Normal Domestic Sewage shall also pay a User Surcharge determined
pursuant to §
50.088.
   (C)   Accrual date. User Charges shall begin to accrue as of the day of the
connection of the Building Sewer to the Public Sewer System in accordance with
§§
50.060 through
50.071. If appropriate, the billing of said charges for the initial billing
period shall be pro rated in arrears.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.088  USER SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The User Surcharge payable pursuant to §
50.087(B), shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Township
Board and shall be sufficient to provide for the distribution of the increased
expense of Cost of Operation and Maintenance of the System.
   (B)   Factors such as Sewage strength, volume, discharge flow rate
characteristics, the increased expense of the Public System for the
transportation and treatment of non-qualifying Sewage and the requirements of
the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (Ord. 01-03) and
Wastewater Treatment Agreement shall be considered and included as a basis for
determining the User Surcharge.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.089  MISCELLANEOUS CUSTOMER FEE.
   The Township shall, from time to time, establish by resolution of the
Township Board and impose on one or more Users a Miscellaneous Customer Fee, as
necessary, for miscellaneous service, repairs, and related administrative costs
associated with the System and incurred, without limitation, as a result of the
intentional or negligent acts of such User or Users, including for example,
excessive inspection services not covered by the Inspection Fee, costs of
repairing and/or replacing a damaged Service Connection, costs of abating a
nuisance pursuant to §
50.153, and costs incurred by the Township to shut off and turn on sewer
service.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.090  INSPECTION FEE.
   The inspection fee shall be determined from time to time by resolution of
the Township Board and shall be based, in part, upon the actual cost incurred
by the Township for the Township Inspector.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.091  BILLING OF SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In accordance with the Operation and Maintenance Agreement, the City
shall bill and collect the User Charges on a monthly basis. The City shall mail
each User a bill on or before the first day of the first month in the billing
period. The bill shall separately itemize the Sewer Rates and Charges.
   (B)   Payment of the bill which is rendered by the City is due and payable
on or before day 20 of the month. Payment of said bill shall be made at a
location designated by the City and acceptable to the Authority.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.092  UNPAID SEWER RATES AND CHARGES; TIME PRICE DIFFERENTIAL.
   If Sewer Rates and Charges are not paid on or before the due date, then a
penalty in the amount of 10% shall be added to the balance due and thereafter a
time price differential of 1% per month or fraction of a month shall be charged
on the outstanding balance, exclusive of penalty, until paid.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.093  UNPAID SEWER RATES AND CHARGES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If Sewer Rates and Charges are not paid on or before the due date, the
Township, pursuant to Public Act 178 of 1939, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
123.161 through 123.167, may:
      (1)   Discontinue the services provided by the system by disconnecting
the Building Sewer from the Service Connection, and the service so discontinued
shall not be reinstated until all sums then due and owing, including time price
differential, penalties, interest, and all expenses incurred by the Township
for shutting off and turning on the service, shall be paid to the Township;
      (2)   Institute an action in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
collection of the amounts unpaid, including penalties, interest, and reasonable
attorney fees; or
      (3)   Enforce the lien created in §
50.094.
   (B)   These remedies shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to any
other remedy provided in this chapter or now or hereafter existing at law or
equity.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall action taken by the Township to collect
unpaid Sewer Rates and Charges, time price differential, penalties and
interest, invalidate or waive the lien created by §
50.094. Before disconnecting service, the Township shall give 30 days written
notice to the User at the last known address according to the Township records
and the Township Tax Assessment Roll. The notice shall inform the User that the
User may request an informal hearing to present reasons why service should not
be disconnected.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.094  LIEN.
   The Sewer Rates and Charges shall be a lien on the respective premises
served by the System. Whenever Sewer Rates and Charges shall be unpaid for six
months or more, they shall be considered delinquent. The Authority shall
certify all delinquent Sewer Rates and Charges and time price differential
thereon, annually, on or before September 1, of each year, to the tax-assessing
officer of the Township, who shall enter the delinquent Sewer Rates and
Charges, time price differential, interest, and penalties upon the next tax
roll as a charge against the premises affected and such charge shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as ad valorem
property taxes levied against such premises.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.095  NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by the System to any Person, public or
private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.096  RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   A lien shall not attach for Sewer Rates and Charges to a premises
which is subject to a legally executed lease that expressly provides that the
tenant (and not the landlord) of the Premises or a dwelling unit thereon shall
be liable for payment of Sewer Rates and Charges, effective for services which
accrue after the date an affidavit is filed by the landlord with the Township.
This affidavit shall include the names and addresses of the parties, the
expiration date of the lease, and an agreement by the landlord to give the
Township 30 days written notice of any cancellation, change, in or termination
of the lease. The filing of the affidavit by the landlord shall be accompanied
by a true copy of the lease and a security deposit in the amount equal to the
User Charge for the preceding 12 monthly billing periods.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the tenant to pay the Sewer Rates and Charges when
due, the security deposit shall be applied by the Township against the unpaid
balance, including time price differential, interest, and penalties. The tenant
shall immediately make sufficient payment to the Township to reinstate with the
Township the amount of the security deposit so advanced. Upon the failure of
the tenant to do so within ten days of said advance, the penalties, rights, and
remedies set forth in §§
50.093 and
50.094 shall be applicable with respect to the unpaid Sewer Rates and Charges,
including time price differential, interest, and penalties. The security
deposit shall be held by the Township without interest and shall be returned to
the landlord upon proof of termination of the lease.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.097  CANCELLATION OF PERMITS; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Applications for connection permits may be canceled and/or sewer service
disconnected by the Township for any violation of any part of this chapter,
including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the permit application as to the nature or extent
of the property to be serviced by the System;
   (B)   Nonpayment of Sewer Rates and Charges;
   (C)   Failure to keep Building Sewers in a suitable state of repair;
   (D)   Discharges in violation of this chapter or the Sister Lakes Area
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (Ord. 01-03); or
   (E)   Damage to any part of the Public Sewer System or the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.098  SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   If the sewer service supplied to a User has been discontinued for
nonpayment of Sewer Rates and Charges, service shall not be reestablished until
all delinquent Sewer Rates and Charges, time price differential, interest,
penalties, and the turn-on charge has been paid. The Township may, as a
condition to reconnecting said service, require that a sum equal to the User
charge for the preceding 12 monthly billing periods be placed on deposit with
the Township for the purpose of establishing or maintaining such User’s credit.
Said deposit shall not be considered in lieu of any future billing for Sewer
Rates and Charges.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the User to pay the Sewer Rates and Charges when
due, the security deposit shall be applied by the Township against the unpaid
balance, including time price differential, interest, and penalties. The User
shall immediately make sufficient payment to the Township to reinstate with the
Township the amount of the security deposit so advanced. Upon the failure of
the User to do so within ten days of said advance, the penalties, rights, and
remedies set forth in §§
50.093 and
50.094 shall be applicable with respect to any unpaid Sewer Rates and Charges,
including time price differential, interest, and penalties. The security
deposit shall be held by the Township without interest and shall be returned to
the User upon continued timely payments by the User of all Sewer Rates and
Charges as and when due, for a minimum of 12 months.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.099  BILLING ADDRESS.
   Bills and notices relating to the Public Sewer System will be mailed to the
User at the address listed on the permit application filed pursuant to §§
50.060 through
50.071 unless a change of address has been filed in writing at the business
office of the Authority. The Township and the Authority shall not otherwise be
responsible for delivery of any bill or notice and the User shall not be
excused from non-payment of a bill or from any performance required in said
notice.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.100  INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; CLAIMS.
   The Township shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption of
service, and when such interruption occurs, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is interrupted for
purpose of working on the System, all Users affected by such interruption will
be notified in advance whenever it is possible to do so. The Township shall, in
no event, be held responsible for claims made against it by reason of the
breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by reason of any other interruption
of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or stoppage for necessary
repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damages nor have any portion of a
payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
REVENUES
§ 50.115  ESTIMATED RATES; SUFFICIENCY.
   The rates to be fixed hereunder shall be sufficient to provide for the cost
of Operation and Maintenance of the System and, in accordance with the
Wastewater Treatment Agreement, the Publicly Owned Treatment Works, as are
necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order. Such rates
shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to produce
these amounts. An annual audit shall be prepared. Based on this audit, rates
for Sewage services shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary to meet
system expenses and to ensure that all User Classes pay their proportionate
share of the cost of Operation and Maintenance.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.116  REVENUES; DEPOSITORY.
   The revenues of the System shall be set aside, as collected, and deposited
in the Common Fund held by the Authority in accordance with the Contracts.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS; BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 50.130  INFORMAL HEARING.
   (A)   In order that the provisions of this chapter and the Sister Lakes Area
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System may be reasonably applied and substantial
justice done in instances where this chapter or the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary
Sewage Disposal System is misapplied or unnecessary financial hardship would
result from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter or the Sister Lakes
Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System, an informal hearing before the Authority
may be requested in writing by any Person or User deeming itself aggrieved by a
citation, order, charge, fee, surcharge, penalty, or action within 30 days
after the date thereof, stating the reasons therefore with supporting documents
and data.
   (B)   The informal hearing shall be scheduled at the earliest practicable
date, but not later than 15 days after receipt of the request, unless extended
by mutual written agreement. The hearing shall be conducted on an informal
basis at the Township Hall or at such place as designated by the Authority. The
Authority may grant the appeal, reject the appeal, or schedule a second
informal hearing not more than ten days after the initial hearing to allow time
for study or to gather additional information. At the conclusion of the
informal hearing, the Authority shall vote on the appeal in the presence of the
appellant. The Authority shall issue a written statement of its decision within
15 business days after the informal hearing.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.131  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Township Board shall serve as a Board of Appeals. The duty of such Board
shall be to consider appeals from the decision of the Authority and to
determine, in particular cases, whether this chapter or the Sister Lakes Area
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System has been misapplied or any deviation from
strict enforcement will violate the intent of this chapter or the Sister Lakes
Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System  or jeopardize the public health or
safety. In all appeals, the appellant shall have the burden of proof.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.132  APPEALS FROM INFORMAL HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   Appeals from the written decisions of the Authority may be made
to the Township Board, acting as a Board of Appeals, within 30 days from the
date of the written decision of the Authority. Such appeal may be taken by any
Person aggrieved. The appellant shall file a Notice of Appeal with the
Authority and with the Board, specifying the ground thereof.
      (2)   Prior to a hearing, the Authority shall transmit to the Board a
summary report of all previous action taken, including any report prepared by a
minority of the Authority dissenting from the written decision. The Board may,
at its discretion, call upon the Authority to explain the action. In order to
find for the appellant, a majority of the Board must concur. The Board of
Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give due
notice thereof to interested parties, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. The final disposition of the appeal shall be in the form of a resolution.
      (3)   Within the limits of its jurisdiction, the same Board of Appeals
may reserve or affirm, in whole or in part, or may make such order,
requirements, decision, or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made
in the case under consideration, and to that end have all the powers of the
Authority from whom said appeal is taken. The decision of said Board of Appeals
shall be final.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall meet at such times as the Board may
determine. There shall be a fixed place of meeting and all meetings shall be
open to the public in accordance with applicable laws. The Board of Appeals
shall adopt its own rules of procedure and keep a record of its proceedings,
showing findings of fact, the action of the Board, and the vote of each member
upon each question considered. The presence of four members shall be necessary
to constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.133  PAYMENT OF AMOUNTS OUTSTANDING.
   All Sewer Rates and Charges outstanding during any appeal process shall be
due and payable to the Township. Upon resolution of any appeal, the Township
shall adjust such amounts accordingly; however, such adjustments shall be
limited to the previous one year’s billing unless otherwise directed by court
order.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.134  EFFECT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.
   If any informal or formal hearing is not demanded within the periods
specified herein, such administrative action shall be deemed final. In the
event either or both such hearings are demanded, the action shall be suspended
until a final determination has been made, except for an immediate cease and
desist order issued pursuant to this chapter or the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary
Sewage Disposal System.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.135  APPEAL FROM BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Appeals from the determinations of the Board of Appeals may be made to the
Cass County Circuit Court within 20 days as provided by law. Such appeals shall
be governed procedurally by the Michigan Administrative Procedures Act of 1969,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.150  INSPECTION.
   The duly authorized representatives, employees, or agents of the Township
the Authority, the County and the City, including, but not limited to, the
Township Inspector, the Township Engineer, the Health Department,
representatives of the MDEQ and the EPA bearing proper identification shall be
permitted to enter at any time during reasonable or usual business hours in and
upon all properties in the Service District for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, testing, and emergency repairs in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any Person who applies for and
receives sewer services from the Township or owns real property in the Service
District shall be deemed to have given consent for all such activities
including entry upon that Person’s property.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.151  DAMAGE TO SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized Person shall maliciously, willfully, recklessly or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with, climb
upon, or enter into any structure, appurtenance, or equipment of the Public
Sewer System or the Publicly Owned Treatment Works or connect or disconnect any
Building Sewer to the Public Sewer System or tamper with or modify any pump,
valving appurtenance, flow control section, meter, or sampling equipment so as
to have the effect of rendering inaccurate any meter or other monitoring
equipment.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)  Penalty, see 50.999
§ 50.152  NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST.
   Except for violations of §
50.151, any Person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the Township with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.153  NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any Nuisance or any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per
se. The Township, in the furtherance of the public health, may enforce the
requirements of this chapter by injunction or other remedy and is hereby
empowered to make all necessary repairs or take other corrective action
necessitated by such nuisance or violation. The person who violated the chapter
or permitted such nuisance or violation to occur shall be responsible to the
Township for the costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees,
incurred by the Township in making such repairs or taking such action as a
Miscellaneous Customer Fee.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.154  LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES.
   Any Person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the Township and its authorized representatives for any expense,
including reasonable attorney’s fees, loss, or damage incurred by the Township
by reason of such violation as a miscellaneous customer fee.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.155  REMEDIES ARE CUMULATIVE.
   In addition to the remedies provided in this chapter, the Township shall
have for violations of this chapter, the remedies set forth in the Sister Lakes
Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System. The remedies provided by this chapter
shall be deemed to be cumulative and not mutually exclusive with any other
remedies available to the Township.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 50.170  REPEAL OF CONFLICTS.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances other than the Sister Lakes Area
Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (Ord. 01-03) in conflict herewith and relating
to the Public Sewer System are hereby repealed. In the event of a conflict
between the terms of this chapter and the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage
Disposal System (Ord. 01-03), the provisions of the Sister Lakes Area Sanitary
Sewage Disposal System (Ord. 01-03) shall control. In the event of a conflict
between the provisions of this chapter and the Wastewater Treatment Agreement,
the provisions of the Wastewater Treatment Agreement shall control.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.171  SEVERABILITY.
   The validity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this chapter
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this chapter which can be
given effect without such invalid part or parts.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.172  STATE AND FEDERAL LAW REQUIREMENTS.
   If any provision of applicable state or federal law imposes greater
restrictions than are set forth in this chapter, then the provisions of such
state or federal law shall control.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.173  SUBCHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS.
   The subchapter and section headings used in this chapter are for convenience
of reference only and shall not be taken into account in construing the meaning
of any portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.174  RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO AMEND.
   Subject to the obligations of the Township set forth in the Contract and the
Wastewater Treatment Agreement, the Township specifically reserves the right to
amend this chapter in whole or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to
repeal the same, and by such amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease,
or otherwise modify any of the Sewer Rates and Charges herein provided.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.175  SCHEDULE OF RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTORS.
Occupation Use Units Unit Factor
Occupation Use                       Units Unit Factor
Apartments                           0.5   Per dwelling unit
Auto dealers - new and/or used       1     Per premises plus 0.25 per 1,000
                                           square feet of building service area
Auto repair/collision                1     Same as above
Auto wash (coin operated do-it-
yourself 10 gallons or less per car) 1     Per stall
auto repair/collision
Auto wash (coin operated do-it-            Per stall or production line
yourself 10 gallons or less per car) 10    including approach and drying area.
not recycled
Auto wash (mechanical - over 10 per  5     Per stall or production line
car) recycled                              including approach and drying area.
Bar                                  2     Per 1,000 square feet
Barber shop                          1     Per shop plus 0.1 per chair after 2
Beauty shops                         1     Per shop plus 0.l per booth
Bed and breakfast                    0.25  Per room
Boat docking space                   0.06  Per space under 25 feet in length
                                     0.1   Per space over 25 feet in length
Bowling alleys (no bar)              1     Per premises plus 0.2 per alley
Campground                           0.15  Per site
Churches                             0.25  Per 1,000 square feet-minimum 1 unit
Cleaners (cleaning and pressing      1     Per premises plus 0.5 per 500 square
facilities)                                feet
Cleaners (pick up only)              1     Per shop
Clinics (medical or dental)          1     Per premises plus 0.5 per exam room
Condominium                          0.50  Per condominium
Convalescent or boarding homes       1     Per premises plus 0.25 per bedroom
Convents                             1     Per premises plus 0.25 per bedroom
Country clubs and athletic clubs (no 1.5   Per 1,000 square feet of clubhouse
private membership)                        plus restaurant and bar
Dry goods (clothing store)           0.50  Per 1,000 square feet
Factories (office and production)    0.75  Per 1,000 square feet based on
wet process                                metered sewage flow
Fire station                         1.0    
Fraternity or sorority houses        0.5   Per dwelling unit
Funeral home                         1.5   Per 1,000 square feet plus residence
                                           to be computed separately
Grocery stores and supermarket       0.5   Per 1,000 square feet
Hardware store                       1     Per store
Hospitals                            1.10  Per bed
Hotels motels                        0.4   Per bedroom plus restaurant and bar
Laundry (self serve)                 1     Per premises plus 0.5 per washer
Market (fruit and vegetable)         0.25  Per 1,000 square feet
Mini-mart/gas station                1     Per 1,000 square feet of retail
                                           space. Benefit fee $7,920.
Mobile homes (freestanding)          1     Per unit
                                           Per pad at indirect connection rate
Mobile homes (parks)                 0.5   plus laundry, community building,
                                           and office to be computed separately
                                           per schedule
Multiple-family residence duplex or  1     Per dwelling unit
row houses
Post office                          1     Per 1,000 square feet
Professional office                  0.25  Per 500 square feet - minimum 1
Public institutions                  1.75  Per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants (meals and drinks)       2     Per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants (meals only)             1     Per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants auxiliary dining rooms
when used less than 20 hours per     1     Per 1,000 square, feet
week
Retail store (other than listed)     1     Per 1,000 square feet
Schools                              0.50  Per classroom
Service stations                     1     Per 1,000 square feet of building
                                           area
Single-family residential            1     Per residence
Skating rink                         0.25  Per 1,000 square feet
Snack bars, drive-ins, and the like  1     Per 1,000 square feet
Theaters                             0.04  Per seat
Theaters (drive-in)                  1     Per site
Two-family residential               1     Per unit
Veterinary facility                  1.50  Per facility
Veterinary facility with kennel      1.50  Per facility plus 0.5 per 5 kennels
Warehouse and storage                0.20  Per 1,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Res. 03-01, passed 5-14-2003)
§ 50.176  SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Figure I.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-915.jpg]
 
   (B)   Figure II.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-913.jpg]
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001)
§ 50.999  PENALTY.
   Any violation of §
50.151, or any violation beyond the time limit provided for in §
50.152, shall be a municipal civil infraction, for which the fine shall not be
less than $100 nor more than $500 for the first offense and not less than $200
nor more than $2,500 for subsequent offenses, in the discretion of the Court,
and in addition to all other costs, damages, and expenses provided by law. For
purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of this chapter
committed by the same person within 12 months of a previous violation of the
chapter for which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be
responsible, provided, however, that offenses committed on subsequent days
within a period of one week following issuance of a citation for a first
offense shall all be considered separate first offenses. Each day that such
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. Any person violating any
of the provisions of this chapter shall, in addition, become liable for any
expense, including reasonable attorney’s fees, loss, or damage occasioned by
reason of such violation. The Supervisor or any code enforcement officer of the
Township, designated from time to time by resolution of the Township Board, is
hereby authorized to issue citations for municipal civil infractions for
violations of the chapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 8-8-2001; Ord. 09-07, passed 9-9-2009)
CHAPTER 51:  INDIAN LAKE WASTEWATER SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Rules of construction
   
51.03   Township supervision and control
   
51.04   Rates and charges
   
51.05   No free service
   
51.06   Connection to the system
   
51.07   Calculation of rates
   
51.08   Operating year
   
51.09   Revenue management; funds
   
51.10   Investments
   
51.11   Hardship application
   
51.12   Enforcement
   
51.13   Drainage violation fee
   
51.14   Schedule of residential equivalent factors
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary for the public health,
safety, and welfare of the Township of Silver Creek (the “township”) that the
Indian Lake Wastewater Sewer System (Township of Silver Creek) be operated by
said township as lessee of the county and the County Department of Public
Works, on a public utility rate basis in accordance with the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138
(“Act 94”).
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.02  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever the words “the system” are referred to in this chapter, they
shall be understood to mean the complete Indian Lake Wastewater Sewer System
(Township of Silver Creek), including all sewers, pumps, lift stations,
treatment facilities, and all other facilities used or useful in the
collection, treatment, and disposal of domestic, commercial, or industrial
wastes, including all appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and
improvements thereto, which may hereafter be acquired.
   (B)   Whenever the words “revenues” and “net revenues” are used in this
chapter, they shall be understood to have the meanings as defined in § 3 of Act
94, being M.C.L.A. § 141.103.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.03  TOWNSHIP SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation and maintenance of the system shall be under the supervision
and control of the County Department of Public Works subject to the terms of
the contract between the county and the township. Pursuant to the terms of such
contract, the township has retained the exclusive right to establish, maintain,
and collect rates and charges for sewer collection and disposal service and in
such capacity the Township Board may employ such person or persons in such
capacity or capacities as it deems advisable and may make such rules, orders,
and regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient
establishment, maintenance, and collection of such rates and charges.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.04  RATES AND CHARGES.
   Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system shall be as follows.
   (A)   Sewer use charges.
      (1)   Sewer user charges to each single family residential premises
served by the system shall be in the flat amount of $35 per month. Each
premises other than a single family residence shall pay a monthly charge of $35
multiplied by a factor representing a ratio of sewage use by such class of
premises to normal single family residential sewage use. The Silver Creek
Township Board shall adopt and revise from time to time by Board Resolution a
schedule for such single family residence equivalents or ratios, provided,
however, that the minimum monthly charge to any premises shall be $35.
      (2)   A delinquency charge of 10% of each quarters charge shall be added
to such charge if the payment is not received by the Township Treasurer on or
before such due date. If such quarterly amount(s) remain unpaid after four
quarters, an additional fee of 10% of the total balance unpaid shall be added.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   Direct connection. Each connection to the system shall be charged a
fee of $4,200 per single-family residence.
      (2)   Indirect connection. In order to defray the proportioned share of
the necessary oversizing of trucks and pumping stations, for each indirect
connection to the system there shall be charged a fee of two-thirds of a direct
tap-in per single-family residence equivalent. An indirect connection shall be
defined as one made to lines added to the system after its original
construction, the cost of which is paid from special assessments or private
funds.
      (3)   Equivalent user factor. Each premises, other than residence, shall
pay a connection charge multiplied by a factor representing a ratio of sewage
use by such class of premises to normal single-family residential use. See §
51.14.
      (4)   Payment of connection charge. Connection charges as set forth above
shall be due and payable upon connection to the system. Said charges, however,
may be payable on yearly installments not to exceed 20 in number. Interest at
the rate of 9% per annum shall be charged on the unpaid balance of said
connection charge from time to time remaining unpaid. If paid in installments,
the first installment of said connection charge shall be payable on connection
and all subsequent installments plus interest shall be payable on December 1 of
each succeeding year.
      (5)   Pumping and filling of septic tanks and dry wells. Within 60 days
after connection to the system, all existing septic tanks and dry wells shall
be pumped and filled with sand in accordance with County Health Department
requirements.
      (6)   Future connections. Future connections shall be $6,250. A future
connection shall be any connection requested after April 1, 1990, excepting
existing dwellings.
      (7)   Permits and inspections. Before connection to the system, all users
shall obtain a permit for connection from the Building Inspector at a cost of
$20. The permit application shall include a diagram of the proposed connection
prepared by the applicant. Before covering the connection, the Building
Inspector shall certify the diagram and allow cover to take place.
      (8)   Connection of certain drains is prohibited. No person shall make
connection of roof downspouts, exterior footing or foundation drains, areaway
drains, storm drains, or other points of entry of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to the public sewer system. Discharge from and mechanical
appliance as geothermal, water furnaces, and similar.
      (9)   Public safety requirements: restoration. All excavations for
building sewer installation and connection to the public sewer system shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored at the cost of the property owner in a
manner satisfactory to the township and all other governmental entities having
jurisdiction. The connection fee, inspection fee, user charge, user surcharge,
miscellaneous customer fee, pretreatment rates and charges, drainage violation
fee and the civil penalty imposed pursuant to §
51.99.
      (10)   Cost of installation of building sewer and connection to public
sewer; indemnification. All costs and expenses incidental to the installation
of the building sewer and the connection thereof to the public sewer system
shall be borne by the owner of the property being connected. No such work shall
be commenced before such owner obtains any necessary permission to work in the
public right-of-way from the township, the County Road Commission, and, if
applicable, the Michigan Department of Transportation. Said owner shall
indemnify the township from all loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be caused by the installation and connection of the building sewer to the
public sewer system.
   (C)   Special rates. For miscellaneous or special services for which a
special rate shall be established, such rates shall be fixed by the Township
Board.
   (D)   Billing. Bills will be rendered monthly on the first day of each
month, payable without penalty within 30 days after the date thereon. Payments
received after such period shall bear a penalty of 5% of the amount of the
bill.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The charges for services which are under the provisions of § 21 of
Act 94, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, made a lien on all premises served thereby,
unless notice is given that a tenant is responsible, are hereby recognized to
constitute such lien, and whenever any such charge against any piece of
property shall be delinquent for six months, the township official or officials
in charge of the collection thereof shall certify annually, on August 1 of each
year, to the tax assessing officer of the township the facts of such
delinquency, whereupon such charge shall be by him or her entered upon the next
tax roll as a charge against such premises and shall be collected and the lien
thereof enforced, in the same manner as general township taxes against such
premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced; provided, however, where
notice is given that a tenant is responsible for such charges and service as
provided by said § 21, no further service shall be rendered such premises until
a cash deposit in the amount of $250 shall have been made as security for
payment of such charges and service.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, the township shall have the right to
shut off sewer service to any premises for which charges for sewer service are
more than three months delinquent, and such service shall not be reestablished
until all delinquent charges and penalties and a turn on charge, to be
specified by the Township Board, have been paid. Further, such charges and
penalties may be recovered by the Township by court action.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989; Ord. 90-2, passed 8-8-1990; Ord. 99-1, passed 4-
7-1999; Ord. 09-06, passed 8-12-2009; Ord. 09-09, passed 9-9-2009; Ord. 12-01,
passed 2-8-2012; Ord. 17-03, passed 5-10-2017)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by said system to any person, firm, or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.06  CONNECTION TO THE SYSTEM.
   It is hereby determined and declared that public sanitary sewers are
essential to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the township;
that all premises on which structures in which sanitary sewage originates are
situated shall connect to the system at the earliest, reasonable date as a
matter for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of the
people of the township, and therefore, all premises on which structures in
which sanitary sewage originates are situated or become situated and to which
sewer services of the system shall be available shall connect to said system
within 90 days after the mailing or posting of notice of such premises by the
appropriate township official that such services are available. Said
notification and enforcement of this section shall be in conformity with
applicable state law.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.07  CALCULATION OF RATES.
   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for the
payment of the expenses of administration and operation, such expenses for
maintenance of the said system as are necessary to preserve the same in good
repair and working order, to provide for the payment of the contractual
obligations of the township to the county pursuant to the aforesaid contract
between said county and the township as the same become due, and to provide for
such other expenditures and funds for said system as this chapter may require.
Such rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to
produce these amounts.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.08  OPERATING YEAR.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of an operating year equivalent to
that of the township.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.09  REVENUE MANAGEMENT; FUNDS.
   (A)   The revenues of the system shall be set aside, as collected, and
deposited in a separate depositary account in a bank duly qualified to do
business in Michigan to be designated from time to time by the Township
Treasurer, in an account to be designated Indian Lake Wastewater System
Receiving Fund (hereinafter, for brevity, referred to as the “Receiving Fund”),
and said revenues so deposited shall be transferred from the Receiving Fund
periodically in the manner and at the times hereafter specified.
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the
Receiving Fund there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depositary
account, designated Operation and Maintenance Fund, a sum sufficient to provide
for the payment of the next quarter’s current expenses of administration and
operation of the system and such current expenses for the maintenance thereof
as may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
      (2)   Contract Payment Fund. There shall next be established and
maintained a depositary account, to be designated Contract Payment Fund, which
shall be used solely for the payment of the Township’s obligations to the
county pursuant to the aforesaid contract. There shall be deposited in said
fund quarterly, after requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have
been met, such sums as shall be necessary to pay said contractual obligations
when due. Should the revenues of the system prove insufficient for this
purpose, such revenues may be supplemented by any other funds of the township
legally available for such purpose.
      (3)   Replacement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained a
depositary account, designated Replacement Fund, which shall be used solely for
the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the system if needed.
There shall be set aside into said fund, after provision has been made for the
Operation and Maintenance Fund and Contract Payment Fund, such revenues as the
Township Board shall deem necessary for this purpose.
      (4)   Improvement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained an
Improvement Fund for the purpose of making improvements, extensions, and
enlargements to the system. There shall be deposited into said Fund, after
providing for the foregoing Fund, such revenues as the Township Board shall
determine.
      (5)   Surplus moneys. Moneys remaining in the receiving Fund at the end
of any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of the
foregoing funds, may, at the option of the Township Board, be transferred to
the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other project of the
Township reasonably related to purposes of the system.
      (6)   Bank accounts. All moneys belonging to any of the foregoing funds
or accounts may be kept in one bank account, in which event the moneys shall be
allocated on the books and records of the township within this single bank
account, in the manner above set forth,
   (B)   In the event the moneys in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to
provide for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any
moneys and/or securities in other funds of the district, except sums in the
Contract Payment Fund derived from tax levies, shall be transferred to the
Operation and Maintenance Fund, to the extent of any deficit therein.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.10  INVESTMENTS.
   Moneys in any fund or account established by the provisions of this chapter
may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in the manner
and subject to the limitations provided in Act 94, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et
seq. In the event such investments are made, the securities representing the
same shall be kept on deposit with the bank or trust company having on deposit
the fund or funds from which such purchase was made. Income received from such
investments shall be credited to the fund from which said investments were
made.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.11  HARDSHIP APPLICATION.
   The owner of a single-family residence, which residence has been assessed a
connection charge, may submit a hardship application to the township seeking a
deferment in the partial or total payment of the charges for benefits provided
for herein, based upon a showing of financial hardship, subject to and in
accordance with the following.
   (A)   The owners of the premises shall, under oath, complete a hardship
application provided by the Township Board, and file said application, together
with all other information and documentation reasonably required by the
township, with the Township Board not less than 60 days prior to the date of
the annual installment due. Any such deferment shall be for that annual
installment only. An application shall be completed and filed by each and every
legal and equitable interest holder in the premises, excepting financial
institutions having security interests in the premises.
   (B)   Hardship applications shall be reviewed by the Township Board, and
after due deliberation of hardship applications, the Township Board shall
determine, in each case, whether there has been an adequate showing of
financial hardship, and shall forthwith notify the applicant of said
determination.
   (C)   An applicant aggrieved by the determination of the Township Board may
request the opportunity to appear before the Township Board in person for the
purpose of showing hardship and presenting any argument or additional evidence.
A denial of hardship following such a personal appearance before the Township
Board shall be final and conclusive.
   (D)   In the event that the Township Board makes a finding of hardship, the
Township Board shall fix the amount of deferment of partial or total charges so
imposed, and in so doing, shall require an annual filing of financial status of
an applicant, providing that upon a material change of financial status of an
applicant, said applicant shall immediately notify the Clerk of the Township so
that a further review of the matter may be made by the Township Board, and
provided further that the duration of the deferment granted shall be self-
terminating upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
      (1)   A change of the applicant’s financial status which removes the
basis for financial hardship;
      (2)   A conveyance of any interest in the premises by any of the
applicants, including the execution of a new security interest in the premises
or extension thereof; or
      (3)   A death of any of the applicants.
   (E)   Upon receiving a determination of the Township Board deferring partial
or total charges imposed, the owners of the premises shall, within one month,
execute a recordable security instrument on the premises to the Township, as
the secured party, payable on or before the death of any of the applicants, or,
in any event, upon the sale or transfer of the premises. Said security interest
shall be in an amount necessary to cover all fees and charges required under
this chapter, and all costs of installation and connection, the consideration
for said security interest being the grant of deferment pursuant to this
chapter.
   (F)   The Township Treasurer shall receive applications for installment
payments of tap-in fees. Upon initial determination by the Township Treasurer
of hardship, the Treasurer shall refer the matter to the Township Board for
consideration. The entire amount of principal and interest shall be paid on an
installment basis with no forgiveness of principal or interest.
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989; Ord. passed 11-13-1991)
§ 51.12  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inspection. The duly authorized representatives, employees, or agents
of the township, the county, and the city, including, but not limited to, the
Township Inspector, the Township Engineer, the Health Department,
representatives of the MDEQ and the EPA bearing proper identification shall be
permitted to enter at any time during reasonable or usual business hours in and
upon all properties in the service district for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, testing, and emergency repairs in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any person who applies for and
receives sewer services from the township or owns real property in the service
district shall be deemed to have given consent for all such activities
including entry upon that person’s property.
   (B)   Damage to system. No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully,
recklessly, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper
with, climb upon, or enter into any structure, appurtenance, or equipment of
the public sewer system or the publicly owned treatment works or connect or
disconnect any building sewer to the public sewer system or tamper with or
modify any pump, valving appurtenance, flow control section, meter, or sampling
equipment so as to have the effect of rendering inaccurate any meter or other
monitoring equipment.
   (C)   Notice to cease and desist. Except for violations of division (B)
hereof, any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the township with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (D)   Nuisance; abatement. Any nuisance or any violation of this chapter is
deemed to be a nuisance per se. The township in the furtherance of the public
health may enforce the requirements of this chapter by injunction or other
remedy and is hereby empowered to make all necessary repairs or take other
corrective action necessitated by such nuisance or violation. The person who
violated this chapter or permitted such nuisance or violation to occur shall be
responsible to the township for the costs and expenses, including reasonable
attorney’s fees, incurred by the township in making such repairs or taking such
action as a miscellaneous customer fee.
   (E)   Liability for expenses. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the township and their authorized
representatives for any expense, including reasonable attorney’s fees, loss, or
damage incurred by the township by reason of such violation as a miscellaneous
customer fee.
   (F)   Remedies are cumulative. The remedies provided by this chapter shall
be deemed to be cumulative and not mutually exclusive with any other remedies
available to the township.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 51.13  DRAINAGE VIOLATION FEE.
   (A)   A fee based upon units for unauthorized drainage service rendered to a
premises by the public sewer system. The fee represents a proportionate share
of the cost of the operation and maintenance of the public sewer system and the
benefit derived from the availability and use of the public sewer system.
   (B)   A drainage violation fee in an amount per month per unit determined
from time to time by resolution of the Township Board shall be charged
periodically to the owner of a premises connected to the public sewer system
for the drainage service rendered to the premises:
      (1)   If the premises has a footing drain or drains connected to the
public sewer system, or there is a discharge from the premises of, or the owner
or any occupant of the premises shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any
storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, unpolluted air conditioning water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to the public sewer system in violation of this chapter or the
Sister Lakes Area Sanitary Sewage Disposal System (Ord. 01-03); or
      (2)   In the event the owners or occupants of a premises shall deny
access to the township, the Authority, the county, or the city or an authorized
representative thereof, including the Township Inspector, bearing proper
credentials and identification, to the premises between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5:00 p.m. during any weekday or at such other time as may be reasonable,
which access has been requested by mail or in person for the purpose of
inspection of the premises for any such connections or discharges of the type
set forth in division (B)(1) above. For a premises with an unauthorized
drainage connection, the drainage violation fee shall accrue as of the date of
the connection, provided that a drainage violation fee shall not be charged for
more than one year past drainage service. When access to a premises is denied
under this division (B)(2) said drainage violation fee shall accrue 30 days
after notice by certified mail is given to the owner of such failure to gain
access. Any changes or corrections to eliminate any such connection or
discharge must be approved by the township and the drainage violation fee shall
continue until such approval is given.
(Ord. 09-09, passed 9-9-2009)
§ 51.14  SCHEDULE OF RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTORS.
Occupation Use Units Unit Factor
Occupation Use                      Units Unit Factor
Apartments                          0.50  Per dwelling unit
                                          Per premise plus 0.25 per 1,000
Auto dealers - new and/or used      1     square fee of building including
                                          service area
Auto repair/collision               1     Same as above
Auto wash (coin operated do-it-
yourself, 10 gallons or less per    1     Per stall
car)
Auto wash (mechanical, over 10      10    Per stall or production line
gallons per car - not recycled)           including approach and drying area
Auto wash (mechanical, over 10      5     Per stall or production line
gallons per car - recycled)               including approach and drying area
Bar                                 4     Per 1,000 square feet
Barber shop                         1     Per shop plus 0.1 per chair after 2
Beauty shops                        1     Per shop plus 0.1 per booth
Boat docking space                  0.06  Per space under 25 feet in length
                                    0.01  Per space over 25 feet in length
Bowling alleys (no bar)             1     Per premise plus 0.2 per alley
Churches                            0.25  Per 1,000 square feet - minimum 1
                                          unit
Cleaners (cleaning and pressing     1     Per premise plus 0.5 per 500 square
facilities)                               feet
Cleaners (pick up only)             1     Per shop
Clinics (medical or dental)         1     Per premise plus 0.5 per exam room
Convalescent or boarding homes      1     Per premise plus 0.25 per bedroom
Convents                            1     Per premise plus 0.25 per bedroom
Country clubs and athletic clubs    1.5   Per 1,000 square feet of clubhouse
                                          plus restaurant and bar
Drug stores                         1     Per premise plus snack bar
Factories (office and production)   0.75  Per 1,000 square feet based on
wet process                               metered sewage flow
Fraternity or sorority houses       0.50  Per dwelling unit
Funeral home                        1.5   Per 1,000 square feet plus residence
                                          to be computed separately
Grocery stores and super market     1     Per premise plus 0.8 per 1,000 square
                                          feet
Hospitals                           1.1   Per bed
Hotels and motels                   0.40  Per bedroom plus restaurant and bar
Laundry (self serve)                1     Per premise plus 0.5 per washer
Mobile homes (freestanding)         1     Per unit
                                          Per pad or site at indirect
Mobile homes (parks)                0.5   connection rate plus laundry,
                                          community building, and office to be
                                          computed separately per schedule
Multiple-family residence duplex or 1     Per dwelling unit
row houses
Post office                         1     Per 1,000 square feet
Professional office                 0.25  Per 500 square feet - minimum 1
Public institutions                 0.75  Per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants (meals and drinks)      3.5   Per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants (meals only)            2.5   Per 1,000 square feet
Restaurants auxiliary dining rooms
when used less than 20 hours per    2     Per 1,000 square feet
week
Retail store (other than listed)    1     Per premise plus 0.1 per 1,000 square
                                          feet
Schools                             1     Per classroom
Service stations                    1.5   Per 1,000 square feet of building
                                          area
Single-family residence             1     Per residence
Snack bars, drive-ins, and the like 2.5   Per 1,000 square feet
Theaters                            0.04  Per seat
Theaters (drive-in)                 0.04  Per car space
Two-family residential              1     Per unit
Veterinary facility                 1.5   Per facility
Veterinary facility with kennel     1.5   Per facility plus 0.5 per 5 kennels
Warehouse and storage               0.2   Per 1,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 89-1, passed 9-13-1989)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §
51.12, or any violation beyond the time limit provided for, shall be a
municipal civil infraction, for which the fine shall not be less than $100 nor
more than $500 for the first offense and not less than $200 nor more than
$2,500 for subsequent offenses, in the discretion of the court, and in addition
to all other costs, damages, and expenses provided by law.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of
the chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of a previous
violation of the chapter for which said person admitted responsibility or was
adjudicated to be responsible, provided, however, that offenses committed on
subsequent days within a period of one week following issuance of a citation
for a first offense shall all be considered separate first offenses.
   (C)   Each day that such violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition, become liable for any expense, including reasonable attorney’s fees,
loss, or damage occasioned by reason of such violation. The Supervisor or his
or her designated official, with Board approval, is hereby authorized to issue
citations for municipal civil infractions for violation of the chapter.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 8-12-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Adoption of uniform traffic code by reference
   
70.03   Adoption of state vehicle code
   
70.04   Adoption of other state laws by reference
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  TITLE.
   This chapter and the provisions of the Uniform Traffic Code and state laws
adopted by reference herein shall be collectively known and may be cited as the
Silver Creek Township Traffic Code Chapter.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 70.02  ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages as promulgated
by the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq., and made effective September 20, 2009, is
hereby adopted by reference. All references in said Uniform Traffic Code to a
“governmental unit” shall mean the Township of Silver Creek.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 70.03  ADOPTION OF STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   The following provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of
1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq., are hereby adopted by
reference:
   (A)   Chapter I (Words and Phrases Defined): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through
257.82;
   (B)   Chapter II (Administration, Registration): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.223,
257.225, 257.228, 257.243, 257.244, 257.255, 257.256;
   (C)   Chapter III (Operator’s and Chauffeur’s License): M.C.L.A. §§
257.3l0e, 257.311, 257.312, 257.312a, 257.324, 257.325, 257.326, 257.328;
   (D)   Chapter VI (Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws): M.C.L.A. §§
257.601 through 257.601b, 257.602 through 257.606, 257.611 through 257.616,
257.617a through 257.622, 257.624a through 257.624b, 257.625 (except felony
provisions), 257.625a, 257.625m, 257.626 through 257.626b, 257.627 through
257.627b, 257.629b, 257.631 through 257.632, 257.634 through 257.645, 257.647
through 257.655, 2257.656 through 257,622, 257.667 through 257.675d, 257.676
through 257.682b, 257.683 through 257.710e, 257.716 through 257.724; and
   (E)   Chapter VIII (License Offenses): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.904 through 257.904a,
257.904e, 257.905.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 70.04  ADOPTION OF OTHER STATE LAWS BY REFERENCE.
   The following provisions of state law are hereby adopted by reference:
   (A)   Section 3102 of the Michigan Insurance Code of 1956, Public Act 218 of
1956, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 500.3102, pertaining to required insurance;
   (B)   Subchapter 6 of part 811 of the Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.81101
through 324.81147, pertaining to off-road vehicles;
   (C)   Part 821 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.82101 through
324.82158, pertaining to snowmobiles; and
   (D)   Section 703 of the Michigan Liquor Control Act, Public Act 58 of 1998,
as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 436.1703, pertaining to minors and alcoholic
liquor.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code and the provisions of the
state laws hereinabove adopted by reference are hereby adopted as the penalties
for violations of the corresponding provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 8-12-2009)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   BOATS AND LAKES
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90:  BOATS AND LAKES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Title
   
90.03   Application
   
90.04   Definitions
   
90.05   Rafts, trampolines, swim platforms, and ski jumps
   
90.06   Location restrictions
   
90.07   Parks, easements, and common areas
   
90.08   Dock repair
   
90.09   Moorage
   
90.10   Ice control
   
90.11   Nonexclusivity
Speeding on Priest Lake; Towing
   
90.25   Interpretation
   
90.26   Speed limit/towing limitation
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   In its deliberations leading to the adoption of this subchapter, the
Township Board has recognized and concluded that the use of water resources,
including the inland lakes situated in the township, should be considered
within a framework of long-term costs and benefits to the township residents,
and that it is desirable to retain and maintain the physical, cultural, and
aesthetic characteristics of lakes in the township.
   (B)   Moreover, it has been recognized that, as the shorelines of lakes
become further developed, the cumulative impact of boat usage from each
respective property must be regulated in order to preserve and protect the
rights of riparian owners as well as the township as a whole.
   (C)   It has further been recognized that the lack of regulation may result
in impairment of these important irreplaceable natural resources of the
township, and may further result in the destruction of property values and
threaten the public health, safety, and welfare of all persons making use of
lakes within the township. Accordingly, it is the intent and purpose of the
Township Board to adopt reasonable regulations for boat usage in the township.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.02  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
Silver Creek Township Boat Regulation Subchapter, and shall hereinafter be
referred to as “this subchapter”.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.03  APPLICATION.
   (A)   The terms and provisions of this subchapter shall be interpreted and
applied as minimum standards and requirements for the promotion and protection
of the public health, safety, and welfare, and for the public peace and
preservation of natural resources and public and private property within the
township.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not interfere with, abrogate, annul, nor repeal
any other law, ordinance, rule, or regulation previously in effect, including
any other ordinance regulating boat launching, mooring, and/or usage. Moreover,
in instances where this subchapter specifically imposes a greater restriction
or higher standard than other ordinances, the provisions of this subchapter
shall govern.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEACHED or BEACHING.  Placing or securing a watercraft on or adjacent to the
shore of a separate frontage on a lake.
   BOAT LIFT, BOAT CRADLE, SHORE STATION, or BOAT STORAGE DEVICE.  A device for
the purpose of mooring, anchoring, or holding a watercraft in, on, or above the
water.
   DOCK or PIER.  A structure, platform, or fixture extending from the shore or
bottomlands into a lake.
   DOCKED or DOCKING.  The anchoring, tethering, or mooring of a watercraft
directly to a pier, structure, platform, pole, anchor, pier, or dock adjacent
to a separate frontage; and also means the placement of a watercraft in an off-
shore boat cradle or shore station, or the regular or overnight beaching of a
watercraft or anchoring or tethering to the bottomlands of a lake adjacent to a
separate frontage.
   ICE CONTROL.  An aerator, bubbler, circulation pump, or any other device,
activity, or equipment used within a lake that affects the water’s surface so
as to prevent the normal formation of surface ice.
   LAKE.  A navigable body of water situated partially or wholly in the
township borders. This subchapter is intended to include all properties within
the township. The subchapter shall not mean nor include lakes to which other
ordinance regulations apply so as to prohibit certain boats with engines or
motors.
   MOORING.  A space for a single watercraft at or adjacent to a dock in an
offshore boat cradle or shore station, anchoring or beaching location.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK or SHORELINE.
      (1)   The line between upland and bottomland which persists through
successive changes in water levels, below which the presence and action of the
water is so common or recurrent that the character of the land is marked
distinctly from the upland and is apparent in the soil itself, the
configuration of the surface of the soil, and the vegetation.
      (2)   Where the water levels vary for purposes of water level management,
the ordinary high water mark shall be the higher of the levels generally
present.
   PERMANENT PIER (DOCK).  A structure so installed on the lake bottomland and
shoreline of such material and design that it is intended to withstand all
weather conditions year-round and not to be removed, in any part or completely,
on a seasonal basis usually for winter damage prevention.
   PERSON.  A human being, partnership, corporation, association, including a
condominium association, and any other entity to which the law provides or
imposes rights or responsibilities.
   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT.  A vessel that meets all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Uses a motor-driven propeller or an internal combustion engine
powering a water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion;
      (2)   Is designed without an open load carrying area that would retain
water; and
      (3)   Is designed to be operated by one or more persons positioned on,
rather than within, the confines of the hull.
   SEPARATE FRONTAGE.  That portion of a lot or parcel of land lawfully
existing on documentation recorded with the Cass County Register of Deeds which
abuts or intersects with the ordinary high water mark of a lake, whether such
lot or parcel is owned by one or more persons, is commonly owned by several
persons or combinations of persons, or occupied by a multiple-unit residential
development. In no event shall such parcel of land abut a human-made canal or
channel, and no canal or channel shall be excavated for the purpose of
increasing the water frontage required by this regulation.
   WATERCRAFT.  Every kind of boat, vessel, tug, tender, however propelled, and
any boat, pontoon boat, hydrofoil, hovercraft, jet ski, personal watercraft,
jet boat, or similar vessel having a propulsion system of more than six
horsepower; marine construction or maintenance equipment, barge, research
vessel, weed harvester or dredge, or sailboat over 12 feet in length, but does
not include canoes, kayaks, paddle boats, rowboats (without an engine), or
other human-powered craft or sailboards.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.05  RAFTS, TRAMPOLINES, SWIM PLATFORMS, AND SKI JUMPS.
   The owners of a raft, trampoline, swimming platform, ski jump, or other such
item shall place a sign or placard on such item that conspicuously identifies
the current lake property address of the owner(s).
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.06  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Docks, piers, boat storage devices, floating rafts, trampolines, floats, ski
jumps, or platforms shall not be located in a body of water so as to impede
navigation or present a safety hazard to watercraft.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.07  PARKS, EASEMENTS, AND COMMON AREAS.
   (A)   Public and private roads ending in any of the lakes of this township
may be used for ingress and egress of the lakes, as defined by state law. No
dock or mooring for watercraft shall be located at or on any right-of-way,
park, road, common area, alley, dedicated walkway, or easement (or bottomlands
thereof) which abuts or terminates at a lake.
   (B)   If lots or parcels front on a road right-of-way, easement, or similar
way which runs along and parallel to the shoreline of the lake and such
abutting lots or parcels are deemed to be riparian pursuant to state law, then
each individual lot or parcel so deemed to be a riparian property under state
law shall be considered a “separate frontage” for purposes of this subchapter
as to each such parcel or lot’s portion of the right-of-way, easement, or other
way involved.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.08  DOCK REPAIR.
   All docks, shore stations, boat cradles, and rafts shall be kept in good
repair. GOOD REPAIR means free from defects which might cause a hazard to
persons or watercraft and free from defects which may result in interference
with navigation of watercraft in lakes.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.09  MOORAGE.
   A watercraft may be moored or anchored overnight in a lake if it is moored
or anchored adjacent to a frontage, dock, boat cradle, shore station, or on a
bottomland in compliance with this subchapter. Moorage of marine construction
equipment, tenders, barges, research vessels, or similar watercraft used in
bona fide marine construction, dredging, lake maintenance, scientific, or
environmental purposes shall be allowed for the extent of the project.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
§ 90.10  ICE CONTROL.
   The installation and use of ice control aerators, bubblers, or any other
device that prevents the natural formation of ice to occur on the surface of
any lake is prohibited, except when an “aeration”, “bubbler”, or “circulation
pump” permit has been issued and all conditions being met. It is the property
owner’s sole responsibility to maintain and ensure that the operation of the
device does not harm the public or limit or create an unsafe use of the lake/
ice arena.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  NONEXCLUSIVITY.
   The prohibitions and penalties provided for in this subchapter shall be in
addition to, and not exclusive of, other prohibitions and penalties provided
for by other law, ordinance, rule, and/or regulation.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
SPEEDING ON PRIEST LAKE; TOWING
§ 90.25  INTERPRETATION.
   All words and phrases used in this subchapter shall be construed and have
the same meanings as those words and phrases defined in Public Act 303 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.80101 through 324.80103, as amended.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 6-13-1984)
§ 90.26  SPEED LIMIT/TOWING LIMITATION.
   (A)   Regulation No. 14, Cass County, R 281.714.17 Priest Lake; high-speed
boating and water skiing prohibited.
   (B)   Rule 17, on the waters of Priest Lake, §§ 11 and 14, T5S, R16W, Silver
Creek Township, Cass County; it is unlawful to:
      (1)   Operate a vessel at high speed; or
      (2)   Have in tow, or otherwise assist in the propulsion of, a person on
water skis.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 6-13-1984)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of the
regulations contained in §§
90.01 through
90.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment of
not more than 90 days or by fine of not more than $500, or both such
imprisonment or fine, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   In addition to, or in lieu of, seeking to enforce §§
90.01 through
90.11 by proceeding under division (A)(1) above, the township may institute an
appropriate action in a court of general jurisdiction seeking equitable relief.
   (B)   Violations of §
90.26 are a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not to exceed $100,
together with costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county jail or such
other place of detention as the court may prescribe for a period not to exceed
90 days, or said fine, costs of prosecution, and imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 6-13-1984; Ord. 97-01, passed 8-22-2015)
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definition
   
91.03   Burning on public roads
   
91.04   Depositing trash in the streets
   
91.05   Yard waste
Trash
   
91.20   Removal of garbage
Weeds, Grasses, and Uncontrolled Plant Growth
   
91.30   Duty to destroy
   
91.31   Public nuisance
   
91.32   Administrative procedures and remedial actions
   
91.33   Violations and enforcement
Litter
   
91.40   Title
   
91.41   Definitions
   
91.42   Regulations
   
91.43   Sanctions
Vehicle Repair and Storage
   
91.50   Name
   
91.51   Purpose
   
91.52   Definitions
   
91.53   Regulations
   
91.54   Nuisance
   
91.55   Sanctions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01  PURPOSE.
   To preserve and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens of the township by prohibiting the burning of waste on the streets
maintained in the township.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 91.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD WASTE.  Leaves, grass clippings, vegetables, or other garden debris,
shrubbery or brush, or tree clippings, or other similar materials which can be
converted into compost humus.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 8-8-2012)
§ 91.03  BURNING ON PUBLIC ROADS.
   No person shall burn any trash, garbage, or other refuse on the public roads
maintained in the township, or burning the same in any manner that may menace
the public health, cause a nuisance of smoke, ash, or offensive odors on the
roads maintained in the township.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 8-8-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  DEPOSITING TRASH IN THE STREETS.
   No person shall deposit or scatter trash, garbage, or other refuse on any
public streets maintained in the township.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 8-8-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  YARD WASTE.
   No person shall cause or permit the burning of yard waste on any public
property or roads.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 8-8-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
TRASH
§ 91.20  REMOVAL OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   This section is prepared so that all reasonable costs of collection of
garbage/rubbish from property specially assessed can be accomplished after the
owner/occupant of the property is given every reasonable opportunity for the
removal of blight, garbage, and/or rubbish.
   (B)   All causes of blight, as defined by the Silver Creek Township Blight
Ordinance, shall be considered as garbage and rubbish as defined in M.C.L.A. §
41.722(2)(1)(f).
   (C)   All waste that must be disposed of in a sanitary landfill shall be
considered garbage and rubbish, as defined in M.C.L.A. § 41.722(2)(1)(f).
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish shall be removed by the owner and/or occupant of
the real property.
   (E)   When garbage and rubbish is not properly removed, the owner and/or
occupant shall be sent by regular mail to the place of mailing the township tax
bill and to the address of the premises, if different, notice for the owner/
occupant to appear at the next township meeting that is at least nine days from
the date of mailing to show cause why a suit should not be filed for the
collection and removal of all garbage/rubbish from the property.
   (F)   If the garbage and rubbish is not removed as directed by the township,
the township, through its attorney, shall cause to be filed a lawsuit to abate
the nuisance by removal of garbage and rubbish in the County Circuit Court.
Said suit shall permit the township to enter the property and to remove the
garbage and rubbish and to proceed to have the cost assessed against real
property as defined.
   (G)   The township shall then proceed to specially assess the specific
property for the collection and removal of garbage and rubbish as defined by
Public Act 188 of 1954, being M.C.L.A. § 41.721.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 5-9-2007)
WEEDS, GRASSES, AND UNCONTROLLED PLANT GROWTH
§ 91.30  DUTY TO DESTROY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   OWNER.  Any person or entity with any ownership or possessory right
or interest, including deed holders and land contract vendees (whether recorded
or unrecorded), mortgagees, lessees, and other tenants, residents, and any
agent of any of same.
      (2)   UNCONTROLLED PLANT GROWTH.  Any non-woody vegetation exceeding a
height of 18 inches; except where such vegetation is not out of character with
the development of the landscaping in the surrounding area within 500 feet, and
also excepting all small grain or food crops, such as wheat, corn, oats, barley
or rye, and garden vegetables and shall include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   (B)   All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds, grasses or uncontrolled plant growth in excess of 18 inches. All weeds
and grasses shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   A-R District;
      (2)   Natural shoreline restoration and preservation projects in all
districts; and
      (3)   Large tracts of undeveloped lots in R-l District over one acre.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 91.31  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All weeds, grasses and uncontrolled plant growth in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 91.32  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND REMEDIAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   The township shall give notice of this application of this subchapter
by both of the following means:
      (l)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the township
during the month of March a notice that:
         (a)   Weeds and/or plant growth in violation of this subchapter not
destroyed/cut by May 1 of that year as required by this subchapter may be
destroyed/cut by the township;
         (b)   The owner of any such land shall be charged with the expenses
incurred by the township to destroy/cut such weeds/plant growth as many times
as is necessary to keep the land in compliance with this subchapter; and
         (c)   The township shall have a lien against the land for the amount
of such expenses, and such lien shall be enforced in the manner provided by
state law for the enforcement of real property tax liens.
      (2)   The property owner will be notified by first-class mail that the
plant growth will need to be in compliance within ten business days. Failure to
give such notice shall not constitute a defense to any action to enforce the
payment of any penalty or debt provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the owner/occupant/agent has failed or refuses to comply with the
subchapter after any of the forms of notice provided for in division (A) above,
the township or its agent/designee may enter upon such land with or without
mechanical equipment and destroy/cut the weeds/plant growth thereon in
violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   All expenses incurred in such destruction/cutting shall be paid by the
owner of such land. The township shall have a lien upon such land for the full
amount of such expenses, which may be enforced in the same manner as the
enforcement of real property tax liens through entry upon the next tax roll of
the township and assessment as a general township tax. Such expenses shall be
subject to all interest and penalties provided for taxes due and collectible
within the township under the general tax laws of the State of Michigan. In
addition to the foregoing, the township may sue the owner in an appropriate
court of law for the collection of such expenses.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 91.33  VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates, disobeys, neglects or refuses to
comply with any provision of this subchapter, or any order issued under the
subchapter, including any conditions imposed thereon, or causes, allows, or
consents to any of the same, shall be deemed to be responsible for a violation
of this subchapter. Any person or entity responsible for a violation of this
subchapter, whether as an occupant, owner, licensee, agent, contractor,
servant, employee, or otherwise, shall be liable as a principal. Each day that
a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any violation of this subchapter shall constitute a basis for such
judgement, writ or order necessary to compel compliance with the subchapter
and/or to restrain and prohibit continuation of the violation, or other
appropriate relief in any court of competent jurisdiction, in addition to any
other relief or sanction herein set forth or allowed by law.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of this subchapter is a municipal civil infraction
as defined by Michigan statute and shall be punishable by a civil fine
determined in accordance with the following schedule:
                  Minimum fine
      First offense         $150.00
      Second offense      $325.00
      Third offense         $500.00
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the township has incurred in connection
with the municipal civil infraction.
   (D)   This subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the person
designated by the Township Board as the Township Property Maintenance Officer
or Ordinance Enforcement Officer(s) of the township, or by such other person(s)
as the Township Board may designate from time to time.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-13-2019)
LITTER
§ 91.40  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Silver Creek Township Litter
Ordinance.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.41  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter:
   LITTER.
      (1)   All garbage, scrap and waste materials including rags, cartons,
paper, cans, bottles, used lumber, boxes, wooden skids or pallets or parts
therefrom (excluding those stored and used in connection with an industrial or
commercial operation on the site), inoperable and discarded appliances and
equipment; cut or broken tree branches, fences in disrepair; broken or
discarded plaster, concrete, brick, building materials, scrap metal, pipe,
discarded motor vehicle parts; tires; and remnants of wood, metal, plastic, or
cast-off material or items regardless of whether the same could be put to
future use.
      (2)   Shall also include personal use items when one or more of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   Such personal use item is not regularly used for its intended
purposes at least one time per season of intended use; or
         (b)   Such personal use item is in a state of disrepair and is not
usable in its present condition; or
         (c)   Such personal use item has broken or missing parts.
   PERSONAL USE ITEMS. Shall include lawn maintenance equipment; children's
toys, sporting equipment and bicycles which can be used on the property itself.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.42  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition and storage regulations for items defined as litter.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, place, throw,
leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or
leaving of litter or any other material on any public or private property or
waters within the township other than property designated and set aside for
such purposes. The phrase "public or private property or waters" includes, but
is not limited to, the right-of-way of any road or highway, any body of water
or water course, or the shores or beaches thereof, and including the ice above
such waters; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or
recreation area; and any residential, commercial, industrial, or farm
properties or vacant or unimproved lands.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid, assist, or abet another
to violate any of the provisions of the [words missing] within this subchapter.
      (3)   The owner or occupant of any building or premises within the
township shall not permit or cause the outdoor storage of litter on such
premises, subject to the following exceptions:
         (a)   Such litter does not include garbage or other putrescible
liquids or solids, when screened from the view of all adjacent properties and
abutting public or private rights-of-way, and when being stored only between
regular, not less than weekly collection by a public or private garbage
collection service;
         (b)   Logs, branches, or other scrap wood may be neatly stacked
outdoors on an occupied premise, provided such storage: (1) does not exceed
2,500 cubic feet in area; (2) is not located within any required building
setback areas as specified in the Silver Creek Township Zoning Ordinance; and
(3) complies with all applicable township ordinance requirements. The
limitation of 2,500 cubic feet shall not apply to logs, branches, or other
scrap wood stored and used in connection with an industrial or commercial
operation on the site.
         (c)   Such litter is located in a duly licensed and properly zoned
junk yard, salvage yard, or landfill where such uses or operations are legally
authorized under the Silver Creek Township Zoning Ordinance; and
         (d)   A special permit is first obtained therefor for a period of not
to exceed 45 days from the Supervisor of Silver Creek Township or such other
officer or official as the Township Board may designate to be granted only in
special hardship cases beyond control of the applicant, where special or
peculiar circumstances exist, where no adjoining property owner is adversely
affected thereby and where the spirit and purpose of this subchapter are still
observed. A special permit granted hereunder may be renewed for not more than
one additional 45-day period upon showing of due diligence and continued
satisfaction of the criteria set forth above for the issuance of the initial
permit.
   (B)   Prohibition and storage of personal use items. Personal use items
which are not defined as "litter" herein shall only be stored in the rear or
side yard of residentially used structures when not in current active use. When
in usable condition and used at least once per season, large scale sporting
installations such as but not limited to trampolines and soccer goals shall not
be required to be stored in the side or rear yard.
   (C)   Prohibition on burying litter. Items defined as litter  herein shall
not be buried or otherwise placed into a hole, concealed and/or covered with
dirt, grass or brush.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.43  SANCTIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined by
Michigan Statute which shall be punishable by a civil fine determined in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
                                           Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
1st offense within 3-year period*          $150         $500
2nd offense within 3-year period*       250          500
3rd offense within 3-year period*          325          500
4th or more offense within 3-year * period 500          500
*Determined on the basis of the date of commission of the offense(s).
 
   (B)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which Silver Creek Township has been put in
connection with the municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall
costs of less than $10 nor more than $500 be ordered. In addition, the township
shall have the right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
purpose of obtaining an injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate
remedy to compel compliance with this subchapter. Each day that a violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 21-05, passed 7-14-2021)
VEHICLE REPAIR AND STORAGE
§ 91.50  NAME.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Silver Creek Township
Vehicle Repair and Storage Ordinance.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.51  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to limit and restrict the outdoor storage,
parking, repair or unreasonable accumulation of junk, unused, partially
dismantled or inoperable vehicles, including any conveyance, trailer, boat,
aircraft, cargo container, railcars, railroad cars, semi-truck trailers, box
cars, truck boxes or new or used parts thereof upon premises within the
township; to provide restrictions concerning the repairing of said vehicles; to
avoid injury and hazards to children and others attracted to such vehicles; to
define common types of conveyances, such as motor homes, recreational vehicles,
mobile house trailers, mobile homes, and campers; to ensure that said
conveyances are utilized only for their intended purposes and not for, as, or
in the place of a storage structure or unit on premises within the township;
and to minimize the devaluation of property values and the psychological ill
effects of the presence of the same upon adjoining residences and property
owners.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.52  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter:
   CAMPER, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, MOTOR HOME, and TRAILER.  Shall be synonymous
and are intended to mean that group of conveyances which are capable of being
moved on their own chassis or wheels upon a roadway or highway, either with or
without its own engine; which can be utilized or occupied as a temporary
residence or vacation structure for limited time periods, which are not
designed to be permanently connected to electrical power, water, sewage and
potable water utilities, whether or not said unit is licensed and operational
for use upon the public highways and roadways and whether or not said unit is
actually operational for use as a vacation trailer or temporary dwelling.
   INOPERABLE. A vehicle or machinery with any of the following conditions in
existence:
      (1)   Where it is being dismantled for the sale, salvage, repair or
reclamation of parts thereof.
      (2)   Where it does not have all of its main component parts properly
attached.
      (3)   Where any other or additional conditions exist which cause the
vehicle to be incapable of being driven under its own power, lawfully, upon the
public streets.
      (4)   Where any other or additional conditions exist which cause the
machinery to be incapable of being used for the purpose it was designed.
   MAIN COMPONENT PARTS. Fenders, hood, radiator, motor, windows, doors,
muffler, transmission, wheels, clutches, pulleys, and safety guards.
   UNOCCUPIED MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable structure constructed to be
towed on its own chassis and designed for permanent year-round living as a
single-family dwelling which is not presently being occupied, is not attached
to sanitary sewer or septic facilities and is not connected to electrical power
and potable water utilities.
   VEHICLE. Any vehicle, motorized or not, operated or designed to be operated
on public or private highways, streets or roads. VEHICLE also means any
machine, motorized or not, that is or can be used as a pleasure vehicle on
private property, such as boats, snowmobiles and dirt bikes.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.53  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store or permit to be
parked or stored upon any premises within Silver Creek Township any vehicle,
including any conveyance, boat, aircraft, or new or used parts therefrom,
unless one or more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Such parking or storage is located within a fully-enclosed
building;
      (2)   A special permit is first obtained therefor for a period of not to
exceed 45 days from the Supervisor of Silver Creek Township or such other
officer or official as the Township Board may designate to be granted only in
special hardship cases beyond the control of the applicant, where special or
peculiar circumstances exist, where no adjoining property owner is adversely
affected thereby and where the spirit and purpose of these regulations are
still observed;
      (3)   Such vehicle or conveyance is licensed or registered by the State
of Michigan, is an operable vehicle or conveyance, has all of its main
component parts attached, as hereinafter defined, has a proper and valid
license plate displayed upon it, and is, in fact, regularly operated for its
designed purpose;
      (4)   Such vehicle(s), boats, trailers, cargo containers, railcars,
railroad cars, semitruck trailer, boxcar, truck box, aircraft or conveyances
are located in a duly licensed and properly zoned junkyard, salvage yard, new
or used car dealer's lot, automobile repair facility or storage yard where such
uses or operations are legally authorized under the township zoning ordinance;
      (5)   Such vehicle or vehicles are awaiting repairs or delivery to owners
at an authorized service station, garage, paint shop, or body shop registered
with the State of Michigan pursuant to 1974 PA 300, as amended, provided such
vehicle or vehicles are locked, licensed by the State of Michigan, and are not
a public nuisance; and
      (6)   Such vehicle, boat, trailer, aircraft or conveyance, although
temporarily inoperable because of minor mechanical failure, has substantially
all of its main component parts attached as hereinafter defined; is, where
subject to a license or registration, licensed or registered by the State of
Michigan; is not in any manner a dismantled vehicle; and the premises do not
contain any such vehicle, boat, aircraft, trailer or conveyance for longer than
14 days in any one calendar year.
   (B)   No repairing, redesigning, modifying or dismantling work or operations
shall be allowed upon any vehicle, boat, trailer, aircraft, cargo container,
rail car, railroad car, box car, semi-truck trailer, truck box or conveyance or
parts thereof upon any public right-of-way or public property (except for
emergency minor repairs not exceeding one hour in duration) or upon any
property not zoned for such purpose except such occasional minor work by the
owner thereof as may infrequently be required to maintain the same in normal
operating condition and as shall be accomplished within fully enclosed
buildings; will not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining property
owners or occupants; and does not violate any provisions of the Silver Creek
Township Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   The outdoor storage or placement of railroad cars, boxcars, cargo
containers, land/sea/air containers and/or railcars, either with or without
wheels attached, on any property which is not operated as a bona fide railroad
in accordance with Michigan Public Act 354 of 1993, as amended, or a commercial
or industrial storage yard authorized under the township zoning ordinance
constitutes a violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit the storage of farm
machinery, vehicles, equipment and material used for agricultural purposes upon
an operating farm of not less than 20 acres. Farm equipment not in use but
stored for parts shall be stored in an area totally obscured from adjacent
premises and roads.
   (E)   Trailers, campers, mobile house trailers, semi-truck trailers, campers
and other conveyances may be parked or stored upon premises in Silver Creek
Township so long as the same are: (1) licensed; (2) operable; and (3) regularly
used for their intended purposes. No conveyance, trailer, camper, unoccupied
mobile home, mobile house trailer, or semi-truck trailer shall be parked,
placed or stored upon premises within Silver Creek Township for use as a
storage building or unit; nor shall any of the above be permitted to be
utilized as a residential unit upon real property premises without principal
permitted use within Silver Creek Township (see division (A)(6) above).
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.54  NUISANCE.
   Any parking, storage, placement or operations in violation of the provisions
of this subchapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance which may be
enjoined or which may subject the violator to the fines and penalties herein
provided for.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.55  SANCTIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined by
Michigan Statute which shall be punishable by a civil fine determined in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
                                           Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
1st offense within 3-year period*          $150         $500
2nd offense within 3-year period*       250          500
3rd offense within 3-year period*          375          500
4th or more offense within 3-year * period 500          500
*Determined on the basis of the date of commission of the offense(s).
 
   (B)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which Silver Creek Township has been put in
connection with the municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall
costs of less than $10 or more than $500 be ordered. In addition, the township
shall have the right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
purpose of obtaining an injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate
remedy to compel compliance with this subchapter. Each day that a violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-14-2021)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of the regulations
contained in §§
91.01 through
91.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment of
not more than 90 days or by fine of not more than $500, or both such
imprisonment or fine, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   In addition to, or in lieu of, seeking to enforce §§
91.01 through
91.05 by proceed under division (A) above, the township may institute an
appropriate action in a court of general jurisdiction equitable relief.
(Ord. 12-05, passed 8-8-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
110.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Marijuana establishments prohibited
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Silver Creek Township
Prohibition of Marijuana Establishments Ordinance.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, as may be amended.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.03  MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Silver Creek Township hereby prohibits all marijuana establishments within
the boundaries of the township pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018, as may be
amended.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects, or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes, allows, or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of
the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
township to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper
remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the township incurs in connection with the
municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the township may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the township or by such other person(s) as designated by
the Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. 18-03, passed 12-12-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Reserved
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MOBILE HOMES
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   BUILDING CODES
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   RADIO/TELEPHONE, MICROWAVE, CITY TOWERS, AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Mobile home park
   
150.04   Reserved for future expansion
   
150.05   Administration and enforcement
   
150.06   Effective date
Mobile Home Site Development Requirements and Standards
   
150.20   Minimum site area
   
150.21   Park location
   
150.22   Minimum home lot areas
   
150.23   Minimum setback requirements
   
150.24   Landscaped buffer requirements
   
150.25   Arrangement and species of plantings
   
150.26   Waiver from landscape buffer requirements
   
150.27   Internal roads/general requirements
   
150.28   Internal roads, curbing
   
150.29   On-site vehicle parking
   
150.30   Parking lots
   
150.31   Utilities
   
150.32   Outdoor storage sheds
   
150.33   Fire regulations
   
150.34   Anchoring systems
   
150.35   Skirting
   
150.36   Signs
   
150.37   Office within the park
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Silver Creek Township Mobile Home
Chapter.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The Mobile Home Commission Act, being Public Act 96 of 1987, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq.
   CODE.  All or part of the Mobile Home Code, as established by Public Act 96
of 1987, being M.C.L.A. § 125.2305.
   COMMISSION.  The Mobile Home Commission.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained in
the structure. MOBILE HOME does not include a recreational vehicle or a mobile
home which complies with the definition of a dwelling pursuant to §
155.006 (Dwelling) as amended. Such mobile home must comply with said §
155.006, as amended.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person
upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continuous non-
recreational basis, and which is offered to the public for that purpose
regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use
as a temporary trailer park.
   PERSON.  An individual, partnership, association, trust, corporation, or any
other legal entity or combination thereof.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle primarily designed and used as a temporary
1iving quarters for recreational, camping, or travel purposes, including a
vehicle having its own motor power, or a vehicle mounted on or drawn by another
vehicle.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Township of Silver Creek, Cass County, Michigan.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.03  MOBILE HOME PARK.
   A mobile home park shall be permitted by “right” in the properly zoned
district, as provided for in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances, as
amended, provided it is constructed in accordance with the provisions of Public
Act 96 of 1987, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq. and the
provisions of this chapter as follows, as approved by the Mobile Home
Commission under the provisions of said Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.2304.
   (A)   Mobile homes permitted to be placed in mobile home parks shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the standards set forth by the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), or NFPA 501B - 1974/ANSI
119.11975 if built prior to June 15, 1976.
   (B)   Accessory buildings for uses such as stores, mechanical dispensers,
equipment storage, coin operated laundry, and dry cleaning facilities may be
permitted provided that such uses:
      (1)   Shall be subordinate to the residential use and character of the
park; and
      (2)   Shall be located, designed, and intended to serve the trade or
service needs of the persons residing in the park.
   (C)   One permanent structure may be provided within the park for equipment
storage and maintenance purposes, if no such structure is provided, provisions
shall be made for the storage of equipment used to maintain the park so that it
is not exposed to public view.
   (D)   The following signs pertaining exclusively to the mobile home park are
permitted.
      (1)   One free-standing, illuminated (but not flashing or moving) sign
may be located at each entrance on each street upon which the mobile home park
fronts according to the following.
         (a)   Each sign shall not be larger than 32 square feet.
         (b)   One temporary sign of up to 100 square feet may be permitted
instead of the sign allowed under division (D)(1) above during construction and
initial fill-up of the park; said sign being subject to the approval of the
Zoning Administrator for a designated period of time, not to exceed three
years.
      (2)   Signs shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (3)   Signs shall be located so that visibility of pedestrians or
motorists, within or without the mobile home park, will not be impeded. Signs
purely for traffic regulation and direction are permitted as required in
accordance with R. 125.1701, Rule 701 of the Mobile Home Commission Rules and
the recommendations of the State Highway Department.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.04  RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 150.05  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Township Zoning Administrator shall be the enforcement officer of
all provisions of this chapter as prescribed herein or such provisions may
hereinafter enacted.
   (B)   Said enforcement officer shall have the authority to make inspections
or investigations under this chapter, as provided in M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2307 and
125.2317.
   (C)   Said enforcement officer is empowered to file complaints and prosecute
violators of provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.06  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and 30 days after
publication.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
MOBILE HOME SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS
§ 150.20  MINIMUM SITE AREA.
   The minimum site area for development of a mobile home park shall be 20
acres.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.21  PARK LOCATION.
   The mobile home park shall be so located so as to have access to a public
thoroughfare or be connected to a public thoroughfare by a permanent easement,
as required under R 125.1920 of the Michigan Administrative Code, Rule 920(1)
(b) of the Mobile Home Commission Rules, as amended.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.22  MINIMUM HOME LOT AREAS.
   (A)   The mobile home park shall be developed with sites having 5,500 square
feet per mobile home unit being served. This 5,500 square feet may be reduced
by 20% provided that the individual site shall be equal to at least 4,400
square feet. For each square foot of land gained through the reduction of the
site from 5,500 square feet, at least an equal amount of land shall be
dedicated as open space, but in no case shall the open space requirement be
less than that required under R 125.1046, Rule 946 of the Michigan
Administrative Code.
   (B)   A lot for an individual unit shall in no case be less in length or
width than necessary to accommodate the unit, including attachments or
additions, and still meet all required setbacks listed in §
150.23.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.23  MINIMUM SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   County designated primary road: 50 feet;
   (B)   Pursuant to that required under R 125.944, Rule 944 of the Michigan
Administrative Code, Department of Commerce Mobile Home General Rules;
   (C)   Pursuant to that requirement under R 125.194(2)(a), Rule 941(2)(a) of
the Michigan Administrative Code, Department of Commerce Mobile Home General
Rules;
   (D)   State and federal roads or highways: 75 feet;
   (E)   Detached accessory building on the same lot: (ten feet from mobile
home);
   (F)   Permanent building: 50 feet;
   (G)   Pursuant to that required under R 125.1941(2)(c), Rule 941(2)(c) of
the Michigan Administrative Code, Department of Commerce Mobile Home General
Rules;
   (H)   Common pedestrian walkway: seven feet; and
   (I)   Any part of an attached structure or other mobile home unit used for
living purposes: 50 feet.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.24  LANDSCAPED BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Screening. A mobile home park shall provide a 15-foot landscape buffer
strip on those property lines abutting or common to other districts.
   (B)   On dedicated roads. On park boundaries fronting on a publicly
dedicated road, the landscape buffer shall be no closer to the road right-of-
way than 30 feet.
   (C)   Abutting other districts. On park boundaries abutting other districts,
the buffer strip may be considered to meet the common property line, but no
tree or shrub will be permitted to be planted closer than five feet from the
line as measured from the plant base.
   (D)   Road intersections. The buffer strip shall be planted so as to not
obstruct visibility and avoid visibility hazards, as determined by the Township
Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Utility lines. Where the landscape buffer strip is under or adjacent
to power, telephone, or other above-ground utilities, plant species whose
mature height and/or width will not interfere with these lines shall be
required.
   (F)   Buffers between mobile home parks. A landscape buffer shall not be
required on a common boundary between adjacent mobile home park developments.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.25  ARRANGEMENT AND SPECIES OF PLANTINGS.
   (A)   Number of rows. Two or more rows of trees or three or more rows of
trees and shrubs combined shall be required.
   (B)   Spacing of rows.
      (1)   Between shrub rows: seven feet;
      (2)   Between conifers and small broad leaf trees: ten feet; and
      (3)   Between large broad leaf trees: 13 feet.
   (C)   Distance between dissimilar rows of plantings. When between-row
spacing requirements are different due to dissimilar plantings row to row, the
greater space requirement shall prevail.
   (D)   Distance between plantings within rows.
      (1)   Shrubs: three to ten feet (depending on species).
      (2)   Conifers and small broad leaved trees: ten to 13 feet (depending on
species).
      (3)   Large broad leaved trees: ten to 13 feet (depending on species).
   (E)   Offset of planting from row to row. Individual plantings of any row
will be staggered from those in an adjacent row such that the most effective
screening is achieved for the species utilized.
   (F)   Selection of species.
      (1)   Fifty percent of the plantings shall be coniferous and they shall
be evenly distributed throughout the running length of the buffer strip, unless
soil would limit their use.
      (2)   The county soil survey shall be the accepted reference for the soil
type in the selection of compatible species.
      (3)   Only one species will be utilized in any given row, except where a
change in soil type dictates a change in species.
      (4)   The selection of species from row to row, based on plant
characteristics for rate of growth, mature height, mature width, and density
shall be made to maximize the achievement of an effective visual screen.
      (5)   Replacement and protection of trees and shrubs required plantings
within a buffer strip shall be maintained and cared for to ensure their
survival with special attention to preventive measures to minimize rodent
damage to young trees and shrubs during hard winter months. Planting lost to
insects, disease, or severe weather shall be replaced within eight months of
their loss.
   (G)   Minimum plant sizes.
      (1)   Shrubs and conifers shall be a minimum of three feet in height.
      (2)   Small and large broad-leaved trees shall be a minimum of six feet
in height.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.26  WAIVER FROM LANDSCAPE BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may grant a waiver or permission to alter a
provision of the landscape buffer strip requirements in recognition of existing
on- and off-site characteristics that would make the strict application of
requirements redundant and unreasonable.
   (B)   Existing site characteristics or circumstances could include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   The proposed park is adjacent to an existing mobile home park
wherein the requirement of a buffer between them would serve no legitimate
purpose;
      (2)   The proposed park has natural vegetative growth or land features
which would adequately serve as a buffer;
      (3)   The park is adjacent to a use that has an environmental buffer; and
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator may, however, condition any waiver of any
requirement and may require a financial guarantee to ensure that the developer
or owner of the mobile home park satisfy the waived requirement at a later
date, that is for instance, off-site environmental buffer outside of the
developer’s control is eliminated or destroyed. The owner or developer would
then be required to provide that which was waived at the time of development.
The bond amount shall be an amount equal to the cost of the landscaping
required prior to obtaining a waiver for the same and shall be set at no less
than the average of two bid proposals from landscape contractors for the
required work which shall be submitted by the park developer with a request for
waiver of landscape buffer requirements.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.27  INTERNAL ROADS/GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Internal roads shall be surfaced in accordance with AASHTO standards
in accordance with R. 125.1922, Rule 922 of the Mobile Home Commission Rules.
   (B)   The road shall have access to public thoroughfare or be connected to a
public thoroughfare by a permanent easement. Sole access by an alley is
prohibited.
   (C)   A dead-end road shall terminate with an adequate turning area. A
blunt-end road is prohibited.
   (D)   An adequate safe-sight distance shall be provided at intersections of
all ingress/egress roads as determined by the township traffic safety officer.
   (E)   An offset at an intersection of less than 150 feet measured from
centerline to centerline and an intersection of more than two streets is
prohibited.
   (F)   An intersection of roads shall be clearly marked with appropriate
traffic signs.
   (G)   Roads or streets shall be named and so identified by street signs
located at all road intersections.
   (H)   Names for internal roads shall be approved by the township.
   (I)   Internal roads shall be as required under R 125.1920, Rule 920 et seq.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.28  INTERNAL ROADS, CURBING.
   (A)   Curbing may be installed on all internal roads.
   (B)   If curbing is used, it shall be constructed as follows.
      (1)   Curbing shall be concrete with the exception of the integral valley
curb and gutter (gravity drains), which may be either concrete or asphalt.
      (2)   If integral valley curbing and gutter or mountable curb and gutter
is used, the height of the curb measured from the gutter line shall be between
three and five inches.
      (3)   Crosswalks shall conform to Public Act 8 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1361 et seq.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.29  ON-SITE VEHICLE PARKING.
   If on-site vehicle parking is provided, it shall be in compliance with the
following.
   (A)   Each mobile home site shall have two parking spaces, either in tandem
or side-by-side. If in tandem, the width shall not be less than ten feet and
the combined length shall not be less than 40 feet. If side-by-side, the
combined width of the two parking spaces shall not be less than 19 feet and the
length shall be 20 feet. In either method, the length shall be measured from
the curb of inner walkway edge.
   (B)   Parking spaces shall be hard surfaced and constructed in compliance
with Public Act 8 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1361 et seq.
   (C)   An area may be designated within the park for the defined purpose of
parking for recreational vehicles such as campers, trailers, boats, and the
like.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.30  PARKING LOTS.
   Where parking is not provided on individual mobile home unit lots, parking
lots shall be provided.
   (A)   Two spaces will be provided per mobile home unit the park is designed
to accommodate.
   (B)   Parking lots shall be designed and located so that they are within 300
feet of the units served.
   (C)   Parking lots shall be designed so as to meet the requirements of R
125.1925, Rule 925 et seq.
   (D)   One visitor parking space shall be provided for every three mobile
home sites constructed.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.31  UTILITIES.
   All utility service lines shall be underground.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.32  OUTDOOR STORAGE SHEDS.
   (A)   On each mobile home lot within the mobile home park, an outdoor shed
may be permitted not to exceed the height of the mobile home on the site, used
for the purpose of storing tools and outdoor lawn and garden equipment, or in
lieu of the installation of outdoor sheds on individual lots, the park may
provide storage for such tools and equipment elsewhere in the park or a
combination of individual sheds or common park storage.
   (B)   Storage of goods and articles in the open is prohibited.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33  FIRE REGULATIONS.
   The mobile home park shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
State Fire Marshal where such rules and regulations are not in conflict and do
not contravene R. 125.1702a, Rule 702a and R. 125.1703, Rule 703, of the Mobile
Home Commission Rules, as amended.
   (A)   Fire hydrants where public water is available. Fire hydrants shall be
provided and so spaced that no mobile home site is farther than 400 feet from
said hydrant. Where public water is not available, a minimum number of hydrants
shall be provided and located as specified by the State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Fire hydrants where public water is not available. Two fire hydrants
or fire plug adapters at well sites shall be provided to enable the connection
of fire hoses. Outlets for these hose connections shall have minimum diameters
not less than two inches and shall meet the requirements and specifications of
the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.34  ANCHORING SYSTEMS.
   After the effective date of these rules, all mobile homes moved on to new or
existing mobile home sites shall have installed an anchoring system which
complies with R. 125.1605, Rule 605 and R. 125.1607, Rule 607 of the Mobile
Home Commission Rules, as amended.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.35  SKIRTING.
   After the effective date of these rules, all mobile homes moved onto new or
existing mobile home sites shall have skirting installed which complies with R.
125.1604, Rule 604 of the Mobile Home Commission Rules, as amended.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.36  SIGNS.
   Signs are permitted as provided by §
150.03(D).
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.37  OFFICE WITHIN THE PARK.
   An office to conduct the business operation of the park will be maintained.
Said office shall be maintained and open to the park occupants for transacting
business and tenants shall be immediately provided with a list of pertinent
information, including office hours as required under R. 125.1704, Rule 704(c)
of the Mobile Home Commission Rules.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
to exceed $100 or confinement in jail for a period of not to exceed 90 days, or
be imposition of both fine and commitment within the discretion of the court.
Each day that a violation of this chapter is continued or permitted to exist
without compliance shall constitute a separate offense punishable upon
conviction in the manner prescribed in this section, provided no person shall
be imprisoned for a single but continuing violation of this chapter with the
requirements of the chapter, and the provisions of this chapter may also be
enforced by suit for an injunction, damage, or other appropriate legal action.
   (B)   All expenses incurred by the township caused by enforcement of this
chapter may be charged against the property taxes of the owner and/or occupant,
or alternately may be the subject of a civil action by the township against the
owner and/or occupant of the premises to recover public funds expended for the
removal or abatement of such violation.
(Ord. 85-1, passed 5-8-1985)
CHAPTER 151:  LAND DIVISION
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Prior approval requirement
   
151.05   Application for approval
   
151.06   Procedure for review of applications
   
151.07   Standards for approval
   
151.08   Noncompliance
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Silver Creek Township Land
Division Chapter.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, formerly known as the
Subdivision Control Act):
   (A)   To prevent the creation of parcels of property which do not comply
with applicable ordinances and said Act;
   (B)   To minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly
development of the community; and
   (C)   To otherwise provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents and property owners of the township by establishing reasonable
standards for the prior review and approval of land divisions within the
township.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSIBLE or ACCESSIBILITY. In reference to a parcel, that the parcel meets
one or both of the following requirements:
      (1)   The parcel has an area where a driveway provides vehicular access
to an existing road or street and meets all applicable location standards of
the County Road Commission or, where applicable, the Michigan Department of
Transportation, under Act No. 200 of the Public Acts of 1969 (M.C.L.A. §§
247.321 through 247.329); or has an area where a driveway can provide vehicular
access to an existing road or street and meet all such applicable location
standards and the requirements of the township zoning ordinance.
      (2)   The parcel is served by an existing easement that provides
vehicular access to an existing road or street and that meets all applicable
location standards of the County Road Commission or, where applicable, the
Michigan Department of Transportation, under Act No. 200 of the Public Acts of
1969 (M.C.L.A. §§ 247.321 through 247.329); or can be served by a proposed
easement that will provide vehicular access to an existing road or street and
that will meet all such applicable location standards.
   APPLICANT.  A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or combination of any of them, that holds an ownership interest in land,
whether recorded or not.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any parcel or lot on which exists or which is intended for
building development other than the following:
      (1)   Agricultural use involving the production of plants and animals
useful to humans, including forages and sod crops; grains, feed crops, and
field crops; dairy and dairy products; poultry and poultry products; livestock,
including breeding and grazing of cattle, swine, and similar animals; berries;
herbs; flowers; seeds; grasses; nursery stocks; fruits; vegetables; Christmas
trees; and other similar uses and activities.
      (2)   Forestry use involving the planting, management, or harvesting of
timber.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. 
      (1)   The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of land by the
proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose of sale or lease of
more than one year, or of building development that results in one or more
parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies the
requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the Land Division Act.
      (2)   Does not include a property transfer between two or more adjacent
parcels, if the property taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel;
and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the
parcel conforms to the requirements of the State Land Division Act, or the
requirements of other applicable local ordinances.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION.  The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT.  Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Township Board.
   PARENT PARCEL or PARENT TRACT. A parcel or tract, respectively, lawfully in
existence on March 31, 1997.
   TRACT. Two or more parcels that share a common property line and are under
the same ownership.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 151.04  PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   Land in the township shall not be divided without the prior approval of the
Township Assessor, or other official designated by the governing body, in
accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division Act; provided that the
following shall be exempted from this requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the State Land Division Act and any township subdivision control chapter.
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
State Land Division Act and any township subdivision control chapter.
   (C)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter, or other partitioning or
splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not accessible
and the parcel was in existence on March 31, 1997 or resulted from exempt
splitting under the State Act.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 151.05  APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Township Assessor, or
other official designated by the governing body, for review and approval of a
proposed land division before making any division either by deed, land
contract, lease for more than one year, or for building development.
   (A)   A completed application form on such form as may be provided by the
Township Board.
   (B)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided.
   (C)   A tentative parcel map drawn to scale including an accurate legal
description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary lines,
approximate dimensions, and the accessibility of each division for automobile
traffic and public utilities; as well as the location of existing structures
relative to the proposed boundary lines.
   (D)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met.
   (E)   If a transfer of division rights is proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer.
   (F)   Pay the applicable fee. Said fee shall be established by a fee
schedule covering the costs of review of the application and administration of
this chapter and the State Land Division Act as set from time to time by
resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 151.06  PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Township Assessor or other township designee shall approve or
disapprove the land division within 45 days after receipt of a complete
application conforming to this chapter’s requirements and the State Land
Division Act, and shall promptly notify the applicant of the decision, and if
denied, the reasons for denial. In determining whether to approve or disapprove
a land division, the Assessor or designee shall seek the advice or comments of
the Zoning Administrator as to whether the proposed split is in compliance with
the minimum parcel size and accessibility requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Assessor or
designee may, within 30 days of said decision, appeal the decision to the
governing board of the township, or such other body or person designated by the
governing body, which shall consider and resolve such appeal by a majority vote
of said board or by the appellate designee at its next regular meeting or
session affording sufficient time for a 20-day written notice to the applicant
(and appellant where other than the applicant) of the time and date of said
meeting and appellate hearing. The decision of the Township Board shall be a
final decision for purposes of judicial review.
   (C)   The Assessor or designee shall maintain an official record of all
approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances or regulations. Any notice of approval
shall include a statement to this effect.
   (E)   The township and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcel
area are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage
disposal facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a
statement to this effect.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
§ 151.07  STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   A proposed land division reviewable by the township shall be approved if the
following criteria are met:
   (A)   The width of each resulting parcel shall comply with the applicable
minimum parcel (lot) width/frontage requirements of the township zoning
chapter.
   (B)   The area of each resulting parcel shall  comply with the applicable
minimum parcel (lot) requirements of the township zoning chapter.
   (C)   Except for parcels meeting the requirements of division (C)(1) herein,
the ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division does not
exceed a four to one ratio exclusive of access roads, easements, or non-
development sites. The depth of a parcel created by a land division shall be
measured within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-of-
way to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of
commencement of the measurement, or from that side of the parcel nearest the
road accessed by an approved and recorded easement.
      (1)   Exception to permit a greater depth-to-width ratio. In the
following circumstances, the land division officer is authorized to exceed the
depth to width ratio provided in this chapter:
         (a)   Exceptional or topographical conditions, such as the existence
of unbuildable or protected swamps and/or wetlands, extraordinary natural
topographical changes such as steep slopes or irregular terrain, eliminating or
reducing the potential for further division based on accessibility. In such
case, the land division officer shall so identify the condition and indicate
that no further divisions shall be permitted unless the depth-to-width ratio in
this chapter is met.
   (D)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of this
chapter and the State Land Division Act.
   (E)   All parcels created and remaining shall have adequate accessibility,
or an area available therefor, for public utilities and emergency and other
vehicles.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 14-02, passed 7-9-2014; Ord. 021-07, passed
11-10-2021)
§ 151.08  NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the township tax roll and no
construction thereon which requires the prior issuance of a construction or
building permit shall be allowed. The township shall further have the authority
to initiate injunctive or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance
of any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of
the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefor, together with any damages sustained
by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a basis for such
judgement, write or order necessary to compel compliance with the chapter and/
or to restrain and prohibit continuation of the violation, or other appropriate
relief in any court of competent jurisdiction, in addition to any other relief
or sanction herein set forth or allowed by law. Each day that an ordinance
violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction as defined
by Michigan statute and shall be punishable by a civil fine determined in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
            Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
1st offense $150         $500
2nd offense 325          500
3rd offense 500          500
 
   (C)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the township has incurred in connection
with the municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 97-3, passed 5-28-1997; Ord. 021-07, passed 11-10-2021)
CHAPTER 152:  BUILDING CODES
Section
Unsafe Buildings
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Prohibited conditions
   
152.04   Effect of building permit
   
152.05   Building Inspector, Enforcement Officer
   
152.06   Inspections
   
152.07   Report of Building Inspector
   
152.08   Further investigation
   
152.09   Initiating proceedings
   
152.10   Notice of hearing
   
152.11   Service of notice
   
152.12   Hearing procedure
   
152.13   Powers of the Board
   
152.14   Time to correct defects
   
152.15   Appeals to Circuit Court
   
152.16   Condemnation notice
   
152.17   Use of condemned buildings prohibited
   
152.18   Tampering with condemnation notice prohibited
   
152.19   Demolition or removal of unsafe buildings
Code Enforcement
   
152.30   Title
   
152.31   Purpose
   
152.32   Codes
   
152.33   Application
   
152.34   Administration and enforcement
   
152.35   Electrical Inspection Code
   
152.36   Property Code
   
152.37   State Construction Code; floodplain management
 
   
152.99   Penalty
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 152.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Unsafe and Unfit Building Subchapter
of the Township of Silver Creek.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent, provide for an opportunity to
repair, and, alternatively, abatement or removal of all buildings and
structures within the township which have become blighted and public nuisances
dangerous to life, public health, and the general welfare of the people of the
township, and to require any person, corporation, or entity causing, allowing,
or permitting such blight or nuisance to continue, and the owner or occupant of
any real property upon which such blight or nuisance may be found to repair,
remove, abate, and/or demolish the same or suffer the penalties for violation
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.03  PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   Any building within the township which shall have one or more of the
following defects shall be deemed unsafe and unfit for human occupancy and use,
and considered a blight and a public nuisance dangerous to life and health:
   (A)   Any building or structure which has become damaged by storm, wind, or
fire or other calamity so as to be dangerous to life, health, safety, and
morals or the general health or welfare of either the occupants or the
residents of the township;
   (B)   Any building or structure which has been allowed to decay,
deteriorate, or has become delapidated, become unsafe or unsanitary so as to
endanger life, health, safety, or morals of the occupants or the general health
and welfare of the residents of the township; or
   (C)   Any building or structure which is structurally unsound and unsafe or
which is wholly or partially in a state of collapse or is wholly or partially
likely to collapse.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.04  EFFECT OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   If a building permit is issued for reconstruction or repair of a building or
structure having one or more of the defects specified in §
152.03, proceedings under this subchapter shall not be commenced and if
commenced shall be suspended providing work proceeds as specified in accordance
with conditions contained in said building permit.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.05  BUILDING INSPECTOR, ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Township Building Inspector is hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter and shall make inspections and
perform those duties and responsibilities vested upon his or her office as
provided herein.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.06  INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Inspector shall inspect, as he or she deems necessary, all
buildings and structures within the township to determine the fitness,
suitability, and safety of such buildings and structures for continued human
occupancy and use and report to the Township Board his or her findings related
thereto.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.07  REPORT OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   When the Building Inspector determines that one or more of the defects
specified in §
152.03 exist in any building or structure with the township, he or she shall
report to the Township Board, in writing, specifying in detail the nature of
the defect and its fitness for human occupancy or use.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.08  FURTHER INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of a written report from the Building Inspector, the Township
Board may cause such further inspection or investigation into the defect or
defects as is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.09  INITIATING PROCEEDINGS.
   The Township Board, when satisfied by the report of the Building Inspector
and such supplemental investigation as it deemed necessary has been completed,
proceedings under this subchapter shall be commenced in the discretion of the
Board by directing the Clerk to have a notice of hearing served on the owner
and/or occupants of said building or structure which is in violation of the
subchapter.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.10  NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Notice of hearing is to be served on an owner or occupant of a building or
structure alleged to be in violation of this subchapter and shall substantially
conform to the following.
NOTICE OF HEARING
   Date:______________
   To:_________________
   ____________________
   ____________________
   Owner and/or Occupant:________________________
   Property Description:
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
      PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the Silver Creek Township Building Inspector has
determined that one or more defects exist in a building or structure located on
the above premises described as:  (Description of building or structure)
________________________________________________
      ________________________________________________________________________________
      ________________________________________________________________________________
   Which is in violation of the Unsafe and Unfit Building Ordinance of the
Township of Silver Creek in the following respects:
___________________________________________________________
   ________________________________________________________________________________
   ________________________________________________________________________________
   The Silver Creek Township Board will conduct a hearing at its (regular/
special) meeting on ____________, the ______, day of_______________, 20_______,
at ______ m. to hear your comments or objections, if any, to the determination
rendered by the Building Inspector. At the hearing, the Township Board may
modify, change, affirm or set aside the determination of the Building
Inspector.
   Upon your failure to appear at this hearing or otherwise show cause why the
Township Board should not act in this matter, the Township Board may direct the
condemnation of the building or structure described herein and may proceed to
secure its removal and/or demolition pursuant to the provisions of the Unsafe
and Unfit Building Ordinance. You may be responsible for the cost incurred by
the Township in the removal or demolition of the structure or building.
   You are further advised that you may cause enforcement proceedings under
this ordinance to be suspended by obtaining a building permit for the
reconstruction or repair of said building or structure to correct defects
existing in violation of this ordinance and to bring said building or structure
into compliance with the Township Building Code.
                                             _________________________
                                             Silver Creek Township Clerk
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.11  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant shall be served with a notice of hearing as
provided in §
152.10 by being personally served a copy of the same by the Building Inspector,
a township police officer, or other person of sound age and discretion who may
generally serve process in the State of Michigan at least ten days prior to the
date of hearing.
   (B)   If service is made by certified mail, the Building Inspector shall
mail a copy of this notice of hearing to persons entitled thereto at least 15
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   In the case of both personal service or service by certified mail, the
person making service on behalf of the township shall file a proof of service
with the township.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.12  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   The hearing shall be held at the time, date, and at the location specified
in the notice of hearing and shall incorporate the following procedure.
   (A)   The Township Clerk shall first determine that service of the notice of
hearing has been made on the owner or occupants of the dwelling in the manner
required by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Township Building Inspector shall then relate to the Township
Board the circumstances, conditions, and defects giving rise to his or her
having made his or her report of violations to the Township Board, and shall
further submit photographs and/or any other pertinent evidence pertaining to
the condition of the structure for the consideration of the Township Board.
   (C)   The owner and/or occupant of the premises shall then be given an
opportunity to offer testimony, evidentiary exhibits, and any other material to
explain the condition or defect or to mitigate action the Township Board might
take.
   (D)   Testimony may be taken under oath at the option of the Township Board.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.13  POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   At the conclusion of the presentation of the Building Inspector and the
owner and/or occupant of the premises, the Township Board may grant
continuances on its own motion or on the motion of parties and may modify,
change, affirm, or set aside the determination of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.14  TIME TO CORRECT DEFECTS.
   In the event the Township Board affirms the decision of the Building
Inspector, the Township Board shall set a reasonable period for correction to
the premises to be made, allowing at least 60 days but not to exceed a period
of 90 days, and upon correction of the defects not being performed to Township
Building Code standards shall proceed with demolition or removal pursuant to §
152.19 without further notice to the owner and/or occupant.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.15  APPEALS TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Township Board in modifying,
changing, affirming, or setting aside a determination of the Building
Inspector, as provided in §
152.13, may seek Circuit Court review thereof within 60 days following the
Township Board’s order modifying, changing, affirming, or setting aside the
determination of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.16  CONDEMNATION NOTICE.
   (A)   In the event the Township Board affirms the finding of the Building
Inspector or when the owner or occupant of premises has not completed repairs
within the time limits specified by the order of the Township Board, the
Building Inspector shall immediately thereafter post conspicuously on a place
or places on the premises a placard or placards dated and signed by him or her
bearing the following words.
CONDEMNATION NOTICE
      THIS STRUCTURE has been condemned as unsafe for use and unfit for human
occupancy. All uses and human occupancy of this structure are prohibited.
   Dated:_______________
                                             _________________________
                                             Building Inspector
   (B)   Any building or structure so posted shall be vacated within a
reasonable time, as required by the Building Inspector. No owner or occupant
shall let or lease any part of condemned premises to any person for human
occupancy or use after the date on which said official has ordered the premises
vacated.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17  USE OF CONDEMNED BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   No building which has been condemned and placarded, as set forth in §
152.16, shall again be occupied or used until approval for such occupancy or
use is secured from the Building Inspector and said placard shall have been
removed by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
§ 152.18  TAMPERING WITH CONDEMNATION NOTICE PROHIBITED.
   Anyone removing or destroying a placard or placards placed on a building or
structure by the Building Inspector in accordance with this subchapter shall be
deemed in violation of this section and subject to the punishments hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)  Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.19  DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   In the event of the failure of an owner or occupant to remove and demolish a
building or structure condemned under the provisions of this subchapter, the
Township Board may direct said removal and demolition be done by the township
and if expense be incurred in causing the same to be done, such expense
incurred by the township may be charged against the property taxes of the owner
and/or occupant, or alternatively may be the subject of a civil action by the
township against the owner and/or occupant of the premises to recover public
funds expended for the removal and demolition of condemned buildings or
structures.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979)
CODE ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.30  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Permit Enforcement Subchapter of the
township.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 152.31  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to assure that appropriate permits are
secured prior to construction activity and to assure that work performed meets
the requirements of each applicable code.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 152.32  CODES.
   All permits issued by the Township Building Inspector will be subject to the
provisions of the following codes:
   (A)   Current Michigan Building Code and the current International Property
Maintenance Code (Incorporating the current edition of the International
Building Code);
   (B)   Michigan Mechanical Code (Incorporating the 2000 edition of the
International Mechanical Code); and
   (C)   Michigan Plumbing Code (Incorporating the 2000 edition of the
International Plumbing Code)
(Ord. 01-02, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 152.33  APPLICATION.
   The three codes listed in §
152.32 apply to all land use and setbacks covered by
Chapter 155 and all of its amendments.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 152.34  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Code Official shall be the enforcement officer of all provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Said enforcement officer shall have the authority to make inspections
or investigations under this subchapter as provided in each of the applicable
codes.
   (C)   Said enforcement officer is empowered to file complaints and prosecute
violators of provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-02, passed 6-13-2001)
§ 152.35  ELECTRICAL INSPECTION CODE.
   Pursuant to PA 230 of 1972, as amended, Silver Creek Township is the
administering and enforcing agency of the State Construction Code, including
the current state-designated electrical code as promulgated from time to time
by the State Construction Codes Bureau.
(Ord. 0901, passed 1-14-2009; Ord. 021-06, passed 10-13-2021)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36  PROPERTY CODE.
   The Township Board adopts the 2012 International Property Maintenance Code,
as amended by Res. 13-01.
(Res. 13-01, passed 1-9-2013)
§ 152.37  STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE; FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan
Construction Code, in accordance with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6), as amended, the Township Building Official is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the
township under Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531. The township assumes responsibility for the administration
and enforcement of said Act throughout the corporate limits of the community
adopting this subchapter.
   (B)   Code appendix enforced. Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan
Construction Code, in accordance with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6), as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code
shall be enforced by the enforcing agency within the township.
   (C)   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS), entitled Cass
County, Michigan - all jurisdictions, and dated Sept. 5, 2007; and the Flood
Insurance Rate Map No. 26027C, panel numbers of 0005C-0010C-0015C-0020C-0040C-
0105C-0110C-0130C and dated Sept. 5, 2007, are adopted by reference for the
purposes of administration of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared to
be a part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the contend
of the “Flood Hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential
Code.
(Ord. 07-03, passed 8-8-2007)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, company, or corporation found to be in violation of
§§
152.01 through
152.19 shall be punished upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $100, by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days, or by both fine and
imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.19, the Township Supervisor and/or Building Inspector are empowered to
commence civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction to secure the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person failing to respond to a direct request to secure a
permit or to comply with the requirements of the “Codes” noted in §
152.32 will be found guilty of violating the provisions of §§
152.30 through
152.34, and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine of not to exceed $100 or confinement in jail for a period of not to exceed
90 days, or the imposition of both fine and commitment within the discretion of
the court. Each day that a violation of §
152.32 is continued or permitted to exist without compliance shall constitute a
separate offense punishable upon conviction in the manner prescribed in this
section, provided no person shall be imprisoned for a single but continuing
violation of §§
152.30 through
152.34 in excess of 90 days. The provisions of the §§
152.30 through
152.34 may also be enforced by suit for an injunction, damage, or other
appropriate legal action without exclusion of other remedies.
      (2)   All expenses incurred by the township caused by enforcement of §§
152.30 through
152.34 may be charged against the real and/or personal property as are real
and/or personal property taxes and a lien shall operate in a manner identical
to the lien imposed for failure to pay real and/or personal property taxes. A
civil action by the township against the owner and/or occupant of the premises
to recover public funds expended for the removal or abatement of such violation
may also be commenced.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of the code or standard
hereby adopted in §
152.35 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by a court of
competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein shall severally for each
and every such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for
not more than 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of
one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise
specified, the application of the above penally shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. Each day that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 10, passed 5-23-1979; Ord. 01-02, passed 6-13-2001; Ord. 0901, passed 1-
14-2009)
CHAPTER 153:  SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   General regulations
   
153.04   Exempted signs
   
153.05   Nonconforming signs, illegal signs, and the like
   
153.06   Units of measurement
   
153.07   Application
   
153.08   District sign regulations
§ 153.01  INTENT.
   The sign regulations of this chapter are intended to protect and further the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the township; to maintain and
improve the appearance of the township; to conserve community character; to
prevent traffic hazards; to provide safer conditions for pedestrians; and to
promote economic development by regulating the construction, alteration,
repair, maintenance, size, location, and number of signs.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWNING.  A retractable or fixed shelter constructed of non-rigid materials
on a supporting framework that project from the exterior wall of a building.
   AWNING SIGN.  A sign affixed flat against the surface of an awning.
   BALLOON SIGN.  A sign composed of a non-porous bag of material filled with
air.
   BANNER SIGN.  A fabric, plastic, or other sign made of non-rigid material
without an enclosing structural framework.
   BILLBOARD.  A sign which advertises an establishment, product, service, or
activity not available on the lot on which the sign is located.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN.  A sign which identifies the owners, financiers,
contractors, architects, and engineers of a project under construction.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN.  A sign which gives directions, instructions, or facility
information for the use on the lot on which the sign is located, such as
parking or exit and entrance signs.
   ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC DISPLAY SIGN.  A sign or portion thereof that displays
electronic, non-pictorial, text information in which each alphanumeric
character, graphic, or symbol is defined by a small number of matrix elements
using different combinations of light emitting diodes (LED’s), fiber optics,
lights bulbs, or other illumination devices within the display area where the
message changes sequence is accomplished immediately or by means of fade,
repixalization, or dissolve modes. ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC DISPLAY SIGNS include
computer programmable, microprocessor controlled electronic or digital
displays. ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC DISPLAY SIGNS include projected images or messages
with these characteristic onto buildings or other objects.
   FREESTANDING SIGN.  A sign supported on poles not attached to a building or
wall.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN.  A temporary or permanent sign erected by Silver Creek
Township, Cass County, or the state or federal government.
   GROUND SIGN.  A sign resting directly on the ground or supported by short
poles not attached to a building or wall.
   MARQUEE.  A permanent structure constructed of rigid materials that projects
from the exterior wall of a building.
   MARQUEE SIGN.  A sign affixed flat against the surface of a marquee.
   MURAL.  A design or representation painted or drawn on a wall which does not
advertise an establishment, product, service, or activity.
   PLACARD.  A sign not exceeding two square feet which provides notices of a
public nature, such as “No Trespassing” or “No Hunting” signs.
   POLITICAL SIGN.  A temporary sign used in connection with an official Silver
Creek Township, school district, county, state, or federal election or
referendum.
   PORTABLE SIGN.  A sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently
attached to the ground, a structure, or a building.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  A double-faced sign attached to a building or wall that
extends more than 12 inches but not more than 36 inches from the face of the
building or wall.
   READER BOARD.  A portion of a sign on which copy is changed manually.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN.  A sign advertising the real estate upon which the sign is
located as being for sale, rent, or lease.
   ROOF LINE.  The top edge of a roof or parapet wall, whichever is higher, but
excluding any cupolas, chimneys, or other minor projections.
   ROOF SIGN.  A sign erected above the roof line of a building.
   SEASONAL SIGN.  A sign erected for a limited period of time during the year
when retailing activities for a particular farm product is available.
   SIGN.  A device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics, symbols,
and/or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of advertising or
identifying an establishment, product, service, or activity.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN.  Temporary and portable signs containing public messages
concerning special events sponsored by government agencies or nonprofit
organizations.
   WALL SIGN.  A sign painted or attached directly to and parallel to the
exterior wall of a building extending no greater than 12 inches from the
exterior face of the wall to which it is attached.
   WINDOW SIGN.  A sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed
from the outside.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 11- -2013)
§ 153.03  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, alter, place or permit to be placed, or replace
any sign without first obtaining a building permit, except as noted in division
(B) below.
   (B)   The following signs shall not require a building permit:
      (1)   Directional signs of six square feet in size or less;
      (2)   Government signs;
      (3)   Placards;
      (4)   Temporary sale signs of four square feet in size or less;
      (5)   Window signs;
      (6)   Political signs; and
      (7)   Seasonal signs erected for farm markets.
   (C)   Signs shall be maintained free of peeling paint or paper, fading,
staining, rust, or other condition which impairs legibility or intelligibility.
Broken or damaged parts of signs shall be repaired as soon as possible after
the damage has occurred.
   (D)   Sign supports, braces, guys, and anchors shall be maintained in such a
manner as not to cause a hazard.
   (E)   Signs may be internally or externally illuminated, except for home
occupation signs, which shall not be illuminated. External light fixtures shall
be enclosed and directed to prevent the source of light from shining directly
onto traffic or residential property.
   (F)   No sign shall be placed in, upon or over any public right-of-way,
alley, or other public place, except as may be otherwise permitted by this
section.
   (G)   No light pole, utility pole, or other supporting member shall be used
for the placement of any sign unless specifically designed and approved for
such use.
   (H)   No sign shall be erected in any place where it may, by reason of its
position, shape, color, or other characteristic, interfere with, obstruct the
view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device, or
constitute a nuisance per se.
   (I)   No commercial vehicles which, in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator, have the intended function of acting as a sign shall be parked
in any area abutting the street, unless no other parking area is available.
   (J)   No sign shall employ any flashing, moving, oscillating, blinking, or
variable intensity light, except that variable time-temperature signs may be
permitted.
   (K)   No sign shall contain any moving or animated parts nor have the
appearance of having any moving or animated parts.
   (L)   Balloons, strings of light bulbs, pennants, streamers, or flags (other
than those of a governmental nature not used for the purpose of commercial
advertisement) hung overhead to draw attention to a business or its merchandise
on display shall be prohibited.
   (M)   No wall sign shall extend beyond the edge of the wall to which it is
affixed or extend above the roof line of a building.
   (N)   No sign shall be erected above the roof line of a building.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 9- -2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04  EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter,
except for the provisions of §
153.03:
   (A)   Government signs;
   (B)   Historical markers;
   (C)   Window signs;
   (D)   Memorial signs or tablets;
   (E)   Murals;
   (F)   Signs not visible from any street;
   (G)   Signs for essential services;
   (H)   Placards;
   (I)   Signs with address, owner, or occupant name, of up to two square feet
in area attached to a mailbox, light fixture or exterior wall; and
   (J)   Flags or insignia of any nation, state, township, community
organization, or educational institution.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 153.05  NONCONFORMING SIGNS, ILLEGAL SIGNS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every permanent sign which does not conform to the height, size, area,
or location requirements of this chapter as of the date of the adoption of this
chapter, is hereby deemed to be nonconforming.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs may not be altered, expanded, enlarged, or
extended; however, nonconforming signs may be maintained and repaired so as to
continue the useful life of the sign.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, a nonconforming sign may be diminished
in size or dimension or the copy of the sign amended or changed without
jeopardizing the privilege of nonconforming use.
   (D)   Any nonconforming sign destroyed by fire or other casualty loss may be
restored or rebuilt to original dimensions.
   (E)   Any sign which for a period of one year or more no longer advertises a
bona fide business conducted or product sold shall be removed by the owner of
the building, structure, or property upon which such sign is located, within 30
days of receipt of written notice by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 153.06  UNITS OF MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   The area of a sign shall be measured as the area within a single,
continuous perimeter composed of any straight line geometric figure which
encloses the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, logo, or any
other figure of similar character, together with any frame or other material or
color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate the sign
from the background against which it is placed, excluding only the structure
necessary to support the sign.
   (B)   The area of a freestanding, ground, or projecting sign that has two or
more faces shall be measured by including the area of all sign faces, except if
two such faces are placed back-to-back and are of equal size, the area of the
two back-to-back faces shall be counted as one face. If the two back-to-back
faces are of unequal size, the larger of the two sign faces shall be counted as
the one face.
   (C)   The height of a sign shall be measured as the vertical distance from
the highest point of the sign to the grade of the adjacent street or the
average grade of the ground immediately beneath the sign, whichever is less.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 153.07  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any sign not expressly permitted by this chapter is prohibited.
   (B)   All ground, wall, and freestanding signs may include reader boards.
   (C)   Any sign, including awnings to which signs are affixed or displayed,
not resting directly on the ground shall maintain a minimum clear space of
eight feet from the bottom of the sign to the ground.
   (D)   Real estate signs shall be removed within 30 days after completion of
the sale or lease of the property.
   (E)   Construction signs are permitted within any district subject to the
following restrictions.
      (1)   Construction signs shall be no larger than 32 square feet and not
exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   Construction signs shall not be erected until a building permit has
been issued for the project which is the subject of the proposed sign and
construction activity has begun.
      (3)   Construction signs shall be removed immediately upon the issuance
of any occupancy permit for the building or structure which is the subject of
the construction sign.
   (F)   Special event signs, including banner signs, are permitted in any
district subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   No more than five such signs shall be displayed for each special
event. The signs may be located either on or off the lot on which the special
event is held.
      (2)   Display of the signs shall be limited to the 21 days immediately
preceding the special event which is being advertised.
      (3)   Signs shall have a maximum size of 32 square feet in area and a
maximum height of five feet, and shall be set back from any side or rear
property line a minimum of 15 feet.
      (4)   Signs shall be removed within 48 hours of the conclusion of the
special event which is being advertised.
   (G)   Directional signs are permitted subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   A directional sign may contain a logo of an on-premises
establishment, but no advertising copy.
      (2)   No sign shall exceed six square feet in area and four feet in
height.
      (3)   Directional signs shall be limited to traffic control functions
only.
   (H)   Garage and estate sale signs are permitted subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   One sign per premises is permitted, located on the premises on
which such sale is being conducted and set back a minimum of five feet from any
property line.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed six square feet in area.
      (3)   The sign shall be erected no more than ten days prior to the day(s)
of the sale and shall be removed within one day after the completion of the
sale.
   (I)   Temporary and portable signs are permitted subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   No more than one sign shall be displayed on the premises. Any sign
shall be located on the same lot as the business to which the sign pertains.
      (2)   The display of signs shall be limited to seven days in any 30-day
period and no more than 14 days in any six-month period.
      (3)   Signs shall have a maximum size of 32 square feet in area and a
maximum height of six feet, and shall be set back from any property line a
minimum of 15 feet.
      (4)   Signs shall not be located in any required parking space or located
so as to interfere with the vision of motorists or pedestrians, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (J)   When attached to walls, electronic changeable copy signs are
classified as cabinet signs.
      (1)   The sign must be located on the site of the use identified or
advertised by the sign.
      (2)   When located within 150 feet of a residential used lot in a
residential zone, all parts of the electronic changeable copy sign must be
oriented so that no portion of the sign face is visible from existing or
permitted principal structure on that lot.
      (3)   In non-residential districts, any portion of the message must have
a minimum duration of four seconds and must be a static display. In residential
districts, any portion of the message must have a minimum duration of one hour
and must be a static display.
      (4)   In residential districts, any portion of the message must use an
amber color.
      (5)   The text of the sign must be limited to ten words to allow passing
motorists to read the entire text with minimal distraction.
      (6)   Audio speakers or any form of pyrotechnics are prohibited in
association with an electronic changeable copy sign.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 11- -2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08  DISTRICT SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs in each district shall be subject to the following regulations.
AR, WD, R-1, R-2, and MHP Districts - Permitted Signs
AR, WD, R-1, R-2, and MHP Districts - Permitted Signs
Ground signs for residential subdivisions, private road entrances to public
streets when serving more than three dwelling units, manufactured home
communities, multiple-family complexes, schools, or other non-residential uses
allowed in the district.
Number   One per major entrance
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Wall signs for home occupations and signs for home based businesses
Number   One per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 4 square feet
Location On wall of house facing street or in front yard
Wall signs for non-residential uses
Number   One per street frontage
Size     No greater than 5% of the wall area to which the sign is affixed
Location On wall of building facing street
Political signs
Number   One per issue or candidate per parcel
Size     No greater than 6 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   One per lot or parcel; plus 1 for the waterfront side of lots with
         waterfront frontage
Size     No greater than 6 square feet for unoccupied properties or lots; 16
         square feet for vacant lots or parcels over 1 acre
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Commercial District - Permitted Signs
Ground signs
Number   One per lot or parcel (not allowed if seeking a freestanding sign)
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of 10 feet from any property line and separated from any other
         sign by a minimum of 10 feet
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Wall signs
Number   One per street frontage
Size     No greater than 10% of the wall area facing the street
Location On wall of building facing street
Political signs
Number   One per issue or candidate per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 16 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   One per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet any property line
Height   No higher than 10 feet
Freestanding signs
Number   One per lot or parcel (not allowed if seeking a ground sign)
Size     Maximum of 100 square feet of signage
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line and separated from any other
         sign by a minimum of 10 feet
Height   No higher than 20 feet
Industrial District - Permitted Signs
Ground signs for individual uses, and entrances to industrial parks or
subdivisions
         One per lot or parcel; except for entrances to industrial parks or
Number   subdivisions, which shall be permitted an additional sign at the
         entrance to the park or subdivision
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of 10 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Wall signs
Number   One per street frontage
Size     No greater than 5% of the wall area to which the sign is affixed
Location On wall of building facing street
Political signs
Number   One per issue or candidate
Size     No greater than 16 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   One per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line
Height   No higher than 10 feet
 
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
CHAPTER 154:  RADIO/TELEPHONE, MICROWAVE, CITY TOWERS,
AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Height
   
154.03   Construction
   
154.04   Compatibility
   
154.05   Collocation and construction
   
154.06   Airport or helipad setbacks
   
154.07   Discontinuance
   
154.08   Bonding
§ 154.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to promote the public health, safety, and welfare
and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the township by regulating the construction of towers for
radio/telephone, microwave, CTV towers, and accessory structures.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.02  HEIGHT.
   Towers for radio, television, cellular phones, and other transmitting and
relay antenna towers shall be located so any setback equals the setback from
any adjacent or adjoining property lines equal to or greater than the height of
the tower. The maximum height shall be the minimum demonstrated to be necessary
by a radio frequency reception data maps showing signal strength information
for the tower location.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.03  CONSTRUCTION.
   All towers shall be self-collapsing and comply with all Michigan Building
Code regulations. The applicant shall provide all appropriate engineering
information, site plans, and drawings to the Building Official at the date of
application. No building other than the associated support building, sidewalk,
parking lot, or other area with anticipated pedestrian or vehicular traffic
shall be permitted within the self-collapsing or “safe fall” area.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.04  COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   The entire facility must be aesthetically and architecturally
compatible with the surrounding environment. The use of residential compatible
material such as wood, brick, and stucco is required for associated support
buildings which shall be designed to architecturally match the exterior of
residential structures within the neighborhood.
   (B)   The structure shall be located and constructed in compliance with the
following criteria.
      (1)   Location criteria.
         (a)   Facilities shall be sited to minimize views from residential
areas or the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Concentration of support structures will be limited in all
geographic areas to avoid excessive visual impact.
         (c)   The structure shall be located on the site of not less than two
acres and should be a rectangular parcel not to exceed a three to one ratio.
         (d)   Minimum spacing between towers shall be four miles.
      (2)   Development and design standards.
         (a)   Support structure shall be located as to be screened from view
by sitting them near tall buildings or placed near existing trees.
         (b)   Whenever possible, support structures shall be of a monopole
design.
         (c)   Support structures shall be located a minimum of 150 feet from
residential lot lines.
         (d)   Support structures shall be painted in unobtrusive colors.
         (e)   Support structures shall be designed to prevent unauthorized
climbing.
         (f)   When lighting is required by the FAA or other federal or state
authority, it shall be the minimum required to meet regulations and the same
shall be approved by the Zoning Board. Any lighting for associated support
buildings shall be subject to Zoning Board approval. It shall be oriented
inward so as not to project into surrounding properties.
         (g)   The Zoning Board will require anti-climbing devices and security
fencing of at least six feet preventing access to the associated building,
tower, and/or guyed wires.
         (h)   Signs and logos are prohibited on the tower.
         (i)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or antenna and
structure, or between towers, shall be at least 16 feet above the ground at all
points, unless buried underground.
         (j)   Towers shall be located so that they do not interfere with
television, radio, or short wave radios reception in nearby residential areas.
         (k)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum
extent practicable; however, the site shall be maintained in harmony with the
surrounding properties. Where the property line of a site containing a wireless
communication structure abuts a residentially zoned, the operator shall provide
a plant screen sufficient in density and height so to have an immediate
buffering impact on adjacent property.
         (l)   There shall be no employees located on the site on a permanent
basis to service or maintain the antenna. Occasionally or temporarily repair
and service activities are excluded from this restriction.
         (m)   Antenna and metal towers shall be grounded for protection
against a direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to electrical wiring
and connections with all applicable local statutes, regulations, and standards.
         (n)   Towers with antennas shall be designed to withstand a uniform
wind loading as prescribed in the Building Code.
         (o)   Structures shall be subject to current state and federal
regulations concerning nonionizing electromagnetic radiation. If more
restrictive state or federal standards are adopted in the future, the antenna
shall be made to conform or the special use permit will be subject to
revocation by the Township Board. Cost for testing and verification of
compliance shall be borne by the operator of the antenna.
         (p)   All structures associated with the facility shall be located on
the property owned or leased by the communications company operating the
facility including all guyed wires and anchors relating thereto.
         (q)   The access road leading to the facility shall be constructed of
gravel and/or aggregate sufficient to maintain adequate access to the site. A
driveway permit, where necessary, will be sought and received by the applicant
prior to issuance of any building permit.
         (r)   The applicant is responsible for seeking and receiving any and
all permits required for the site location including, but not limited to, FAA,
Michigan Aeronautics Commission, Cass County Road Commission, and the like.
         (s)   To ensure compliance with the above criteria, the township may
require a bond to assure compliance with the same.
      (3)   Safety standards. All new wireless communication facilities shall
be designed within the applicable ANSI standards.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.05  COLLOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   Any proposed tower shall be designed and constructed to accommodate future
collocation. Towers must be designed to allow for future arrangement of
antennas upon the tower and to accept not less than three antennas mounted at
varying heights. Whenever possible, proposed wireless communication facilities
shall collocate on existing buildings, structures, and existing wireless
communication structures. If a provider fails to or refuses to permit
collocation, such a structure shall be a nonconforming structure and shall not
be altered or expanded in any way. As a condition of the special use, the
applicant will be requested to allow location of municipal antennas on the
tower for fire and police use.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.06  AIRPORT OR HELIPAD SETBACKS.
   All towers over 25 feet in height shall be a minimum of one-half nautical
mile (or 3,013.5 feet) from any airport runway or designated helicopter landing
site.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.07  DISCONTINUANCE.
   When a wireless communication structure has not been used for a period of 90
consecutive days after new technology is available which permits the operation
of a facility without the necessity of a wireless communication structure, all
parts of the structure shall be removed within 160 days. The removal of
antennas or other equipment from the structure or the cessation of reception or
transmission of radio signals shall be considered the beginning of non-use. The
township may secure the removal of the structure if it is still standing 30
days after the township has sent a notice to the operator stating the need to
remove the structures. In securing the removal of the structure, the township
may charge up to 125% of the removal cost to the operator and/or the land
owner.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 154.08  BONDING.
   To ensure compliance with all criteria and discontinuance or removal of said
tower, the township shall require a bond.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Scope
   
155.004   Legal basis
   
155.005   Rules of construction
   
155.006   Definitions
   
155.007   Effective date
Structure Regulations
   
155.020   Area, height, and use conditions and exceptions
   
155.021   Required lots, yards, and frontage
   
155.022   Principal uses or main buildings on a lot
   
155.023   Double frontage lots
   
155.024   Minimum lot width for cul-de-sac lots
   
155.025   Projections into yards
   
155.026   Clear vision corners
   
155.027   Control of heat, glare, fumes, dust, noise, vibration, and odors
   
155.028   Temporary dwellings, uses, or structures
   
155.029   Accessory uses
   
155.030   Accessory buildings or structures
   
155.031   Fences
   
155.032   Swimming pools
   
155.033   Home based businesses
   
155.034   Home occupations
   
155.035   Dish antenna
   
155.036   Essential services
   
155.037   Illegal dwellings
   
155.038   Razing of building
   
155.039   Moving of building
Nonconforming Buildings or Structures, Uses, and Lots
   
155.050   General requirements
   
155.051   Nonconforming buildings and structures
   
155.052   Nonconforming uses
   
155.053   Nonconforming lots of record
   
155.054   Keeping of pets and raising and keeping fowl or animals
   
155.055   Private easement/private road
   
155.056   Storage and repair of vehicles
   
155.057   Lighting
   
155.058   Maintenance of landscaping and buffers
   
155.059   Storage of recreational equipment
   
155.060   Floor areas and grade level
   
155.061   Medical marihuana
Zoning Districts
   
155.075   District
   
155.076   Zoning map
   
155.077   Areas not included within a district
   
155.078   AR Agricultural/Rural Residential District
   
155.079   WD Waterfront District
   
155.080   R-1 Single-family Residential District
   
155.081   R-2 Residential District
   
155.082   MHP Manufactured Home Park District
   
155.083   C Commercial District
   
155.084   IND Industrial District
Site Plan Review
   
155.095   Purpose
   
155.096   Site plans reviewed
   
155.097   Application procedures
   
155.098   Preliminary site plan review
   
155.099   Final site plan review
   
155.100   Site plan review standards
   
155.101   Approved site plans
Parking
   
155.115   Parking, general requirements
   
155.116   Parking lot design standards
   
155.117   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.118   Off-street loading requirements
Special Land Uses
   
155.130   Purpose
   
155.131   Application and review procedures
   
155.132   Basis of determination
   
155.133   Approval term and expiration
   
155.134   Revocation of special land use approval
   
155.135   Existing special exceptions
   
155.136   Resubmission
Specific Special Land Use Standards
   
155.150   Special land uses
   
155.151   Recreation grounds
   
155.152   Removal of resources
   
155.153   Public or private campgrounds
   
155.154   Two-family dwellings
   
155.155   Multiple-family dwellings
   
155.156   Planned unit developments
   
155.157   Funeral homes and mortuary establishments
   
155.158   Group and commercial day care homes and facilities
   
155.159   Hotels and motels
   
155.160   Theaters and the like
   
155.161   Restaurants with drive-through facilities
   
155.162   Vehicle service stations
   
155.163   Vehicle wash establishments
   
155.164   Open air businesses
   
155.165   Veterinary hospitals, animal clinics, and commercial kennels
   
155.166   Utility and public service buildings
   
155.167   Body shops
   
155.168   Lumber and planing mills
   
155.169   Metal plating, buffing, and polishing
   
155.170   Commercial storage warehouses
   
155.171   Stamping or punch press operations
   
155.172   Junk yards
   
155.173   Boat launches
   
155.174   Marinas
   
155.175   Sexually oriented businesses
   
155.176   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
155.177   Private schools, churches, and the like
   
155.178   Intensive livestock operations
   
155.179   Open space developments
   
155.180   Vehicle sales
   
155.181   Private hunting facilities
   
155.182   Private docks accessory to non-residential uses
   
155.183   Private dock on vacant residential parcel
   
155.184   Rental halls
Conditional Rezoning
   
155.195   Intent
   
155.196   Application and offer of intent
   
155.197   Planning Commission review
   
155.198   Township Board review
   
155.199   Approval
   
155.200   Compliance with conditions
   
155.201   Time period for establishing development or use
   
155.202   Reversion of zoning
   
155.203   Subsequent rezoning of land
   
155.204   Amendments of conditions
   
155.205   Township right to rezone
   
155.206   Failure to offer conditions
Wind Generated Power
   
155.220   Purpose
   
155.221   Definitions
   
155.222   On-site use wind energy systems
   
155.223   Commercial grade wind energy systems
   
155.224   Wind site assessment for utility grade wind energy systems
   
155.225   Application
   
155.226   Utility grade wind energy system requirements
   
155.227   Property setback
   
155.228   Sound pressure level
   
155.229   Construction codes, towers, and interconnection standards
   
155.230   Safety
   
155.231   Visual impact
   
155.232   Environment impact
   
155.233   Avian and wildlife impact
   
155.234   Electromagnetic interference
   
155.235   Shadow flicker
   
155.236   Decommissioning
   
155.237   Complaint resolution
Solar Energy Systems
   
155.240   Purpose
   
155.241   Definitions
   
155.242   Solar energy systems (SES)
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
155.250   Creation and membership
   
155.251   Jurisdiction
   
155.252   Application and hearing procedure
   
155.253   Standards of review
   
155.254   Decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
155.255   Resubmission
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.270   Zoning Administrator
   
155.271   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
155.272   Zoning compliance and building permits
   
155.273   Property surveys
   
155.274   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.275   Zoning ordinance amendments
   
155.276   Schedule of fees
   
155.277   Performance guarantees
   
155.278   Recording of meetings
   
155.279   Complaints about physical changes
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Silver Creek Township
Zoning Chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is based upon the Silver Creek Township Master Plan and
is designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare; to
encourage the use of land and bodies of water in accordance with its character
and adaptability and protect land and bodies of water from improper use; to
conserve natural resources and energy to meet the needs of the state’s citizens
for food, fiber, and other natural resources, places of residence, recreation,
industry, trade, service, and other uses of land; to ensure that uses of land
shall be situated in appropriate locations and relationships; to avoid the
overcrowding of population; to provide adequate light and air; to lessen
congestion on waterways and public roads and streets; to reduce hazards to life
and property; to facilitate the adequate provision of a system of
transportation, sewage disposal, safe and adequate water supply, education,
recreation, and other public requirements; and to conserve the expenditure of
funds for public improvements and services so as to obtain the most
advantageous uses of land, resources, and properties.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted with reasonable consideration, among other
things, of the character of each zoning district, its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, the conservation of property values and natural resources, and
the general and appropriate trend and character of land, building, and
population development.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 8- -2015)
§ 155.003  SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter shall not repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair
or interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances, or
regulations, except those repealed herein by specific reference, or with
private restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed, or other private
agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the
township is a party.
   (B)   Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, limitations, or
requirements upon the use of buildings, structures, or land; the height of
buildings or structures; lot coverage, lot areas, yards, or other open spaces;
or any other use or utilization of land than are imposed or required by such
existing laws, ordinances, regulations, private restrictions, or restrictive
covenants, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (C)   Except as herein specified, no building, structure, lot, or premises
shall be used or occupied, and no building or part thereof or other structure
shall be erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or
altered, except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.004  LEGAL BASIS.
   The continued administration of this chapter, amendments to this chapter,
and all other matters concerning operation of this chapter shall be done
pursuant to Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as
amended, herein referred to as the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act.
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.005  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following listed rules of construction apply to the text of this
chapter.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In the case of any difference in meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY
is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   A building or structure includes any part thereof.
   (F)   The word PERSON includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership,
an incorporated association, or any other similar entity.
   (G)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the conjunctions
noted below shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   AND indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events shall apply.
      (2)   OR indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may apply singularly or in any combination.
      (3)   EITHER OR indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply singularly but not in combination.
   (H)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.006  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A subordinate building on the same premises with a main
building, or portion of a main building, and occupied or devoted to an
accessory use; for example, a private garage.
   ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY.  A use of a zoning lot which is clearly
incidental to the principal use of the lot and customarily found in connection
with the principal use. When ACCESSORY is used in this text, it shall have the
same meaning as ACCESSORY USE.
   ADJACENT GRADE. Adjacent grade shall be construed as the average grade
measured at a point three feet on each side of the fence. In the case of a
fence on a retaining wall, adjacent grade shall be the grade of the top of the
wall.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A commercial
establishment that, as one of its business purposes or services, offers for
sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed and/or electronic
or digital matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations or media which depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant, lounge, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, electronic,
digital, other photographic reproductions or visual media that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment which, for any
form of consideration, regularly and primarily shows films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions or visual media
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   AGRICULTURE.  The cultivation, tilling, or use of soil for the purpose of
growing or storing crops thereon or use of land for the purpose of animal or
poultry husbandry, including the preparation and marketing of agricultural
products for commercial purposes. All reasonable dust, spray drift, water
drift, noise, odors, and other conditions normally association with the
foregoing agricultural uses are considered a part of the AGRICULTURE and are
permitted.
   ALTERATIONS.  Any change, addition, or modification in construction or type
of occupancy, or in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams, or girders, any substantial change in the roof, or
an addition to or diminution of a structure or building.
   ANIMAL UNIT.  A unit of measurement used to compare relative differences in
the odor producing characteristics of animal wastes with the following
equivalencies applicable to various animals (see chart).
 
Animal        Unit
Cattle        1.0
Fowl          0.10
Horses        1.0
Other animals As determined by the Zoning Administrator
Sheep         0.5
Swine         1.0
 
   AVERAGE GRADE-DEFINED GRADE.  The average finished ground elevation at the
center of all walls of a building established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of buildings. The building grade shall be the
level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished grade
is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the grade shall be determined by
averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the building or
structure being measured.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade
but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor
is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A
BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-917.jpg]
 
   BEACHED or BEACHING.  Placing or securing a watercraft on or adjacent to the
shore of a separate frontage.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.  A house, or portion thereof, where short-
term lodging rooms and meals are provided as a commercial operation.
   BERM.  A mound of earth graded, shaped, and improved with landscaping in
such a fashion as to be used for visual or audible screening purposes.
   BOAT LIFT, BOAT CRADLE, BOAT STORAGE DEVICE.  A device for the purpose of
mooring, anchoring, or holding a watercraft in, on, or above the water.
   BODY SHOPS.  Any building, premises, or land in which or upon which the
primary use is the servicing, repair, or painting of motor vehicles.
   BOTTOM LAND.  The land area of an inland lake or stream that lies below the
ordinary high-water mark and that may or may not be covered with water.
   BUFFER STRIP.  A strip of land required between certain districts reserved
for plant material, berms, walls, or fencing to serve as a visual barrier.
   BUILDING.  A structure erected on site, pre-manufactured or pre-cut
structure, above or below ground, designed primarily for the shelter, support,
or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any kind.
   BUILDING CODE.  The code or codes governing the erection and maintenance of
buildings as currently adopted by Silver Creek Township.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from the established grade
at ground to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck
line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge for
gable, hip, and gambrel roofs. On a structure having a flat roof, the parapet,
if provided, may exceed the maximum building height by three feet. Where a
building is located on sloping terrain, the height shall be measured from the
average ground level of the grade at the building wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-919.jpg]
 
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The person designated by the Township Board to
administer the provisions of the adopted Building Codes for Silver Creek
Township
   BUILDING LINE.  The outline formed by the outermost horizontal extents of
the building, including eaves, cornices, bay windows, gutters, chimneys,
pilasters, and similar features, except as described in §
155.025.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A document signed by an authorized township
official as a condition precedent to the commencement of a use of a structure
or building which acknowledges that such use, structure, or building complies
with the provisions of the Michigan Building, Electrical, Plumbing, and
Mechanical Codes and all final inspections have been approved.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.  A document signed by an authorized
township official, after an inspection has been made, stating that all
provisions of this chapter have been adhered to at the completion of permitted
work.
   CHILD CARE CENTER.
      (1)   A facility, other than a private residence, licensed by the
Michigan Department of Social Services, in which one or more children are given
care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours per day, and where a
parent or legal guardian is not immediately available to the child. CHILD CARE
CENTER includes a facility which provides care for not less than two
consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per day.
      (2)   CHILD CARE CENTER does not include a Sunday School, a Vacation
Bible School, or a religious class that is conducted by a religious
organization where children are in attendance for not greater than four hours
per day for an indefinite period, or not greater than eight hours per day for a
period not to exceed four weeks during a 12-month period, or a facility
operated by a religious organization where children are cared for not greater
than four hours while persons responsible for the children are attending
religious classes or services.
   COMMERCIAL STORAGE WAREHOUSE.  A building or buildings used primarily as a
commercial business for the storage of goods and materials.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES.  Licensed telecommunication
services including cellular, personal communication services (PCS), specialized
mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and
similar services that are marketed to the general public, but are not
considered an essential public service.
   CONVALESCENT or NURSING HOME.  A structure with sleeping rooms where persons
are housed or lodged and are furnished with meals, nursing and medical care.
   DAY CARE.
      (1)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME.  A private residence in which the operator
permanently resides as a member of the household, licensed by the Michigan
Department of Social Services, in which more than six but not more than 12
minor children are given care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours
per day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to
an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. GROUP DAY-CARE
HOME includes a home that gives care to unrelated minor children for more than
four weeks during a calendar year.
      (2)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.  A private residence in which the operator
permanently resides as a member of the household, registered with the Michigan
Department of Social Services, in which one but less than seven minor children
are given care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours per day,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to an adult
member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoption. FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child for more than four
weeks during a calendar year.
   DISH ANTENNA or SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA.  An apparatus capable of receiving
communications from a transmitter or a transmitter relay located in planetary
orbit.
   DISTRICT.  A zoning district as described in §
155.075.
   DOCK or PIER.  A structure, platform, or fixture extending from the shore or
bottomlands into a lake.
   DOCKED or DOCKING.  The anchoring, tethering, or mooring of a watercraft
directly to a pier, structure, platform, pole, anchor, pier, or dock adjacent
to a separate frontage; and also means the placement of a watercraft in an off-
shore boat cradle or shore station, or the regular or overnight beaching of a
watercraft or anchoring or tethering to the bottomlands of a lake adjacent to a
separate frontage.
   DRIVEWAY.  An improved or unimproved path or road extending from a public or
private road or right-of-way to a building, dwelling, or structure intended to
provide ingress and egress primarily for the occupants and visitors thereto.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.  A business establishment so developed that its
retail or service character provides a driveway approach or parking spaces for
motor vehicles to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle, either exclusively
or in addition to service within a building or structure, or to provide self-
service for patrons and food carry-out.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A dwelling, or a portion of a building, designed
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached dwelling designed exclusively for and
occupied exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One room or suite of two or more rooms designed for use and
occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes, with housekeeping
facilities.
   ERECTED.  Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon, or any
physical operations on the premises which are required for construction,
excavation, fill, drainage, and the like.
   ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments of underground,
surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, fuel, or water transmission,
distribution, collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems, including
towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm and police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and similar equipment.
The definition does not include buildings and storage yards necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by utilities or municipal departments for the
general health, safety, or welfare, or commercial wireless telecommunication
services.
   EXCAVATION.  Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and
ground care.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   An individual or group of two or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, together with foster children and servants of the
principal occupants, who are domiciled together as a single housekeeping unit
in a dwelling unit; or
      (2)   A collective number of individuals domiciled together in one
dwelling unit whose relationship is of a continuing, non-transient domestic
character and who are cooking and living as a single nonprofit housekeeping
unit. This definition shall not include any society, club, fraternity,
sorority, association, half-way house, lodge, coterie, organization, group of
students, or other individual whose domestic relationship is of a transitory or
seasonal nature; is for an anticipated limited duration of school term or
during a period of rehabilitation or treatment; or is otherwise not intended to
be of a permanent nature.
   FARM.
      (1)   Land directly farmed or used for commercial agriculture by the
owner-operator, manager, or tenant farmer by his or her own labor or with
assistance of members of his or her household or hired employees. A FARM can or
cannot include a farm dwelling and accessory buildings necessary for the
storage or housing of farm implements, products, or animals, or used for the
operation of the farm. FARMS may include greenhouses, nurseries, orchards,
plants, and animals useful to human beings produced by agriculture and
includes, but is not limited to, forages and sod crops, grains and feed crops,
dairy and dairy products, poultry and poultry products, cervidae, livestock,
including breeding and grazing, equine, fish, and other agricultural products,
bees and bee products, berries, herbs, fruits, vegetables, flowers, seeds,
grasses, nursery stock, trees and tree products, mushrooms, and other similar
products, or any other product which incorporates the use of food, feed, fiber,
or fur.
      (2)   Beginning June 1, 2000, it is the express legislative intent that
this Act (Right to Farm Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 through 286.474)
preempts any local ordinance, regulation, or resolution that purports to extend
or revise in any manner the provisions of this act or generally accepted
agricultural and management practices developed under this Act. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, a local unit of government shall not enact,
maintain, or enforce an ordinance, regulation, or resolution that conflicts in
any manner with this Act or generally accepted agricultural and management
practices developed under this Act.
   FARM MARKET.  As described by Michigan Right to Farm Act, Public Act 93 of
1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 through 286.474.
   FENCE. A fixed structure or gate, constructed of standard  fencing materials
readily available on the retail market such as wood, vinyl, or metal that is
erected as a dividing marker, barrier, or enclosure, encircling either wholly
or any portion, of any area. No tarps, visquene, tires, or other junk is
allowed.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS (GFA).  The sum of the total horizontal areas of the
several floors of all buildings on a lot, measured from the interior faces of
exterior walls, but excluding porches, patios, terraces, breezeways, carports,
verandas, garages, and basements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-921.jpg]
 
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE (UFA).  That area used for, or intended to be used for,
the sale of merchandise or services or for use to serve patrons, clients, or
customers. Floor area which is used or intended to be used principally for the
storage or processing of merchandise, for hallways, or for utilities or
sanitary facilities shall be excluded from the computation of USABLE FLOOR
AREA. Measurement of USABLE FLOOR AREA shall be the sum of the horizontal areas
of the several floors of the building measured from the interior faces of the
exterior walls.
   FOOD TRUCK.A licensed, self-contained vehicle (motorized or towable) which
is temporarily permitted to park in a designated area of an established use in
Special Land Use Permitted Zoning District within Silver Creek Township.
   FOOD TRUCK PARK. A permitted area specifically designed to accommodate the
temporary parking and operation of food trucks. The park shall include public
restrooms and may include an outdoor seating area.
   GRADE.  The gradient, the rate of incline or decline expressed as a percent.
For example, a rise of 25 feet in a horizontal distance of 100 feet would be
expressed as a grade of 25%.
   GREENBELT.  A strip of land of definite width and location reserved for the
planting of shrubs, trees, or grasses to serve as an obscuring screen or buffer
strip in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   GROUND LEVEL.  The elevation of the natural ground. On built sites, or sites
that are proposed for development, GROUND LEVEL is the average grade of the
proposed finished ground.
   GUEST.  A person who is staying with an individual in his or her home or a
person whom an individual has invited to a social occasion, such as a party or
a meal.
   HEIGHT.  The average distance between the top element in the fence and the
adjacent grade over a straight section of fence with no corners.
   HOME BASED BUSINESS.  A business or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises. A HOME BUSINESS is one in which no
commodity is sold on the premises, except that incidental to the home based
business; not more than one person is employed there other than a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises; and no mechanical equipment is used,
except such as is permissible for purely domestic or household purposes within
the dwelling, a garage or accessory building. Beds and breakfasts or similar
uses shall not be deemed to be HOME BASED BUSINESSES.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  An occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises. A HOME OCCUPATION is one in which no
commodity is sold on the premises; no person is employed there other than a
member of the immediate family residing on the premises; and no mechanical
equipment is used, except such as is permissible for purely domestic or
household purposes, when engaged in by only residents entirely within the
dwelling and not in a garage or accessory building or with the use of any non-
residing employee. Tea rooms, veterinarian’s offices, bed and breakfast
establishments, animal hospitals, kennels, and other similar businesses or
occupations shall not be deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.  A building or group of buildings containing
dwellings where the occupancy of dwellings is restricted to persons 60 years of
age or older, or couples where either the husband or wife is 60 years of age or
older.
   ICE CONTROL.  An aerator, bubbler, circulation pump, or any other device,
activity, or equipment used within a lake that affects the water’s surface so
as to prevent the normal formation of surface ice.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle which can no longer propel itself.
   INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS.  Any feedlot, piggery, or other livestock
raising, breeding, or feeding facility involving more than 300 but less than
1,000 animal units, including any buildings, structures, or enclosed areas used
for such activities, and any associated waste storage structures or areas.
   JUNK.  Any worn out, previously used, dilapidated, discarded materials
including, but not necessarily limited to, scrap metal, inoperative motor
vehicles and parts, construction material, household wastes, including garbage
and discarded appliances, and yard debris.
   JUNK YARD.  An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled.
These materials include, but are not limited to: scrap iron and other metals,
paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile
wrecking yards and includes any area of more than 200 square feet for storage,
keeping, or abandonment of junk, does include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL.  Any lot or premise on which three or more dogs, cats,
or other household pets, six months of age or older, are either permanently or
temporarily boarded for commercial purposes. A KENNEL shall also include any
lot or premises where household pets are bred or sold for commercial purposes.
   LAKE.  A navigable body of water, situated partially or wholly in the
township borders.
   LOADING SPACE.  An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or
group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a vehicle while loading and
unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT.  A parcel, vacant land, occupied land, or land intended to be occupied
by a building and accessory buildings, or utilized for the principal and
accessory use(s) together with yards and open spaces required under the
provisions of this chapter, either platted or unplatted. A LOT may or may not
be specifically designated as such on public records. A LOT may also mean a
portion of a condominium project, as regulated by Public Act 59 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, designed and intended for
separate ownership and use.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER.  Any lot having at least two contiguous sides abutting
upon a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of such two
sides is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a curved street or streets
shall be considered a corner lot if the tangents to the curve, at its points of
beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side lot lines
with the street line, intersect at an interior angle or less than 135 degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-923.jpg]
 
      (2)   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
      (3)   LOT, THROUGH.  Any interior lot having frontage on two parallel
streets. In the case of a row of double frontage lots, all yards of lots
adjacent to streets shall be considered frontage, and through yard setbacks
shall be provided as required.
   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines, excluding areas
within streets or road right-of-way.
   LOT COVERAGE.  The part of the lot occupied by any building, including
accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT LINES.  The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE.  On waterfront lots in the Waterfront District, the
front lot line is the ordinary high water mark. In the case of an interior lot,
the front lot line is the line separating the lot from the street. In the case
of a through lot, the front lot line is that line separating the lot from
either street.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE.  That lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot which is pointed at the rear, the rear lot line shall be an
imaginary line parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long,
lying farthest from the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear
lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street is a side street lot
line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is an interior side lot
line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-925.jpg]
 
   LOT OF RECORD.  A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the County Register of Deeds or in common use by
township or county officials, which actually exists as shown, or any part of
such parcel held in a record ownership separate from that of the remainder
thereof.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal straight line distance between the side lot
lines, measured between the two points where the required front yard setback
line intersects the side lot lines.
   MAIN BUILDING.  A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot upon which it is situated.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A transportable, factory-built home designed to be used
as a year-round residential dwelling.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  A parcel or tract of land under the control of a
person upon which three or more manufactured homes are located on a continual
non-recreational basis, offered to the public for that purpose regardless of
whether a charge is made, together with any building, structure, enclosure,
street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use incident to the
occupancy of a manufactured home and which is not intended for use as a
temporary trailer park.
   MARIHUANA.  This term shall have the meaning given to it in the Michigan
Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.,
as is referred to in § 3(d) of the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Public Act
2008, being M.C.L.A. § 333.26423(d).
   MARIHUANA COLLECTIVE OR COOPERATIVE.  Any facility, structure, dwelling or
other location where medical marihuana is grown, cultivated, processed, stored,
transmitted, dispensed, consumed, used, given, delivered, provided, made
available to and/or distributed that is formed by a group or individuals in a
group acting together as a collective enterprise or by an organization owned
collectively by members who share in the benefits owned as a cooperative or in
any way structured like a collective or a cooperative.
   MARINA.  A private or commercial boat basin with facilities for berthing and
securing any type of recreational watercraft. MARINAS may also provide
supplies, provisions and service, or fueling facilities. Waterfront
establishments that offer watercraft for hire or rental shall be defined as
MARINAS.
   MASTER PLAN.  The Master Plan currently adopted by Silver Creek Township,
including graphic and written proposals, indicating the general location for
streets, parks, schools, public buildings, and all physical development of the
township, and includes any unit or part of such plan and any amendment to such
plan.
   MEDICAL USE OF MARIHUANA.  The acquisition, possession, cultivation,
manufacture, use, internal possession, delivery, transfer, or transportation of
marihuana or paraphernalia relating to the administration of marihuana to treat
or alleviate a registered qualifying patient’s debilitating medical condition
or symptoms associated with the debilitating medical condition, as defined
under the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Public Act 2008, being M.C.L.A. §
333.26423(d).
   MOORAGE.  The anchoring, tethering, or mooring of a watercraft directly to a
pier, structure, platform, pole, anchor, pier, or dock adjacent to a separate
frontage; and also means the placement of a watercraft in an off-shore boat
cradle or shore station, or the regular or overnight beaching of a watercraft
or anchoring or tethering to the bottomlands of a lake adjacent to a separate
frontage.
   MOORING.  A space for a single watercraft at or adjacent to a dock, in an
offshore boat cradle or shore station, anchoring, or beaching location.
   MOTEL/HOTEL.  A building or group of buildings on the same lot, whether
detached or in connected rows, containing sleeping or dwelling units which may
or may not be independently accessible from the outside with garage or parking
spaces located on the lot and designed for, or occupied by, travelers. The term
shall include any building or building groups designated as motor lodges,
transient cabins, or by any other title intended to identify them as providing
lodging, with or without meals, for compensation on a transient basis.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING.  A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and not conforming
to the provisions of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.  A legally recorded lot that conformed with all
zoning requirements at the time of recording of the lot, but which no longer
conforms to the zoning regulations and requirements for lot area, lot width, or
both.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use or activity which lawfully occupied a building or
land at the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and which
does not conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  The C and IND Districts.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT.  A facility providing parking spaces, along with
adequate drives, maneuvering areas, and aisles, for the parking of more than
three vehicles.
   OPEN AIR BUSINESS.  Retail sales establishments operated substantially in
the open air, including:
      (1)   Bicycle, utility truck or trailer, motor vehicle, boats, or home
equipment sales, repair or rental services;
      (2)   Outdoor display area and sale of garages, motor homes, recreation
vehicles, manufactured homes, snowmobiles, swimming pools, and similar
activities, but not including farm implements or commercial construction
equipment;
      (3)   Retail sales of trees, fruits, vegetables, shrubbery, plants,
seeds, topsoil, humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground
equipment, and other home garden supplies and equipment, but not including
lumberyards; and
      (4)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
miniature golf, golf driving range, children’s amusement parks, or similar
recreational uses (transient or permanent).
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK or SHORELINE.  The line between upland and
bottomland which persists through successive changes in water levels, below
which the presence and action of the water is so common or recurrent that the
character of the land is marked distinctly from the upland and is apparent in
the soil itself, the configuration of the surface of the soil, and the
vegetation. Where the water levels vary for purposes of water level management,
the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK shall be the higher of the levels generally
present.
   PARCEL.  A tract of land which can be legally described with certainty and
is capable of being located by survey.
   PARKING SPACE.  An area of definite length and width, said area shall be
exclusive of drives, aisles, or entrances giving access thereto, and fully
accessible for the parking of permitted vehicles.
   PERMANENT PIER (DOCK).  A structure so installed on the lake bottomland and
shoreline of such material and design that it is intended to withstand all
weather conditions year round and not to be removed, in any part or completely,
on any temporary basis.
   PERSON.  A human being, partnership, corporation, association (including a
condominium association), and any other entity to which the law provides or
imposes rights or responsibilities.
   PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT.  A commercial business conducting services
that are performed primarily on the premises.
   PERSONAL WATERCRAFT.  A vessel that meets all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Uses a motor-driven propeller or an internal combustion engine
powering a water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion;
      (2)   Is designed without an open load carrying area that would retain
water; and
      (3)   Is designed to be operated by one or more persons positioned on,
rather than within, the confines of the hull.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A development of land that is under unified
control and is planned and developed as a whole in a single development
operation or programmed series of development stages. The DEVELOPMENT may
include streets, circulation ways, utilities, buildings, open spaces, and other
site features and improvements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or COMMISSION.  The Silver Creek Township Planning
Commission.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER or CAREGIVER.  A person as defined under M.C.L.A. §
333.26423(h) of the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, and who has been issued and
possesses a registry identification card under the Act.
   PRIMARY ROAD.  A county primary roadway, as designated in the Silver Creek
Township Master Plan or by the Cass County Road Commission. For purposes of
this chapter only, a state trunk line shall also be considered as a county
primary.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary use to which the premises is devoted.
   PRIVATE ROAD.
      (1)   Any undedicated path, trail, or road which provides or is intended
to provide the primary means of ingress and egress to two or more parcels or
two or more main buildings, dwelling units, or structures, or combination
thereof, whether created by a private right-of-way agreement, license joint
ownership, easement, or prescription. Any and all extensions, additions, or
branches of or to a private road shall be considered part of the primary
private road which abuts the public road.
      (2)   A private road shall also include:
         (a)   An access serving one parcel if that parcel does not have the
requisite amount of frontage on a public road as required by this chapter;
         (b)   Where two or more parcels or dwellings share or utilize a common
access drive, even if each parcel has the required frontage on a public road;
and
         (c)   A private road shall also include a path, trail, or road which
is privately built or maintained and which is located on a public right-of-way
or easement.
   PROTECTIVE MEASURES FENCE. A fence erected for the express purpose of
protecting an enclosed area and the property therein, or a fence intended to
deny access to a dangerous property or location.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  A person, firm, corporation, municipal department, board,
or commission duly authorized to furnish to the public under federal, state, or
municipal regulations, gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal, communication,
telegraph, transportation, or water.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT or PATIENT.  A person as defined under the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. § 333.26423(i), and who has been issued
and possesses a registry identification card under the Act.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR EQUIPMENT.
      (1)   Vehicles or equipment used primarily for recreational purposes. For
the purpose of this chapter, recreational vehicle shall mean:
         (a)   A vehicle primarily designed and used as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel purposes, including a vehicle
having its own motor power or a vehicle mounted on or drawn by another vehicle,
such as a motor home or camper;
         (b)   Boats and trailers designed to transport boats;
         (c)   Snowmobiles and trailers designed to transport snowmobiles;
         (d)   Off-road vehicles and trailers designed to transport off-road
vehicles;
         (e)   Pop-up tent and camper trailers; and
         (f)   Other similar vehicles deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be
a recreational vehicle.
      (2)   This term shall not include motorcycles or motorbikes or other
similar means of transportation intended primarily for on-street use.
   REQUIRED YARD.  That set forth as the minimum yard requirement for each
District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-927.jpg]
 
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  The AR, WD, R-1, R-2, and MHP Districts, as described
in this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Public or private land, property, or interest therein,
devoted to transportation or utility purposes and/or providing access to
property.
   ROAD.  See STREET/ROAD.
   ROAD COMMISSION.  The Cass County Road Commission.
   SALVAGE YARD.  An open space where waste, surplus, discarded, or salvaged
materials are brought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment and automobile wrecking.
   SEPARATE FRONTAGE.  That portion of a lot or parcel of land lawfully
existing on documentation recorded with the Cass County Register of Deeds which
abuts or intersects with the ordinary high water mark of a lake, whether such
lot or parcel is owned by one or more persons, is commonly owned by several
persons or combinations of persons, or occupied by a multiple-unit residential
development.
   SETBACK.  The distance required to obtain minimum front, side, or rear yard
open space provisions of this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-929.jpg]
 
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult bookstore, video store, or novelty
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, or a commercial enterprise
that regularly features the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form of
consideration, of books, films, videos, DVDs, magazines, or other visual
representation of live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on
the exposure or display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   SHORE STATION.  A device for the purpose of mooring, anchoring, or holding a
watercraft in, on, or above the water.
   SIGN.  A lettered board or other notice advertising an individual, firm,
profession, business, or other thing and visible to the general public.
   SIGNIFICANT NATURAL FEATURE.  A natural area as designated by the Planning
Commission, Township Board, or the Michigan Department of Natural Resources
which exhibits unique cultural, topographic, ecological, hydrological,
cultural, or historical characteristics such as a wetland, floodplain, water
features, or other unique natural features.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, or anus; or female breast immediately below the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breast.
   STORAGE TANK.  A stationary device located above or below the ground’s
surface designed to contain liquid, which is constructed of non-earthen
materials, which provide structural support, with a capacity of 30 U.S. gallons
or more.
   STORY.  That part of a building included between the surface of any floor
above the average grade or ground at the foundation and the surface of the next
floor, or if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above.
   STORY, HALF.  An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof having an area
of at least 200 square feet with a clear height of seven feet. For the purpose
of this chapter, the usable floor area is only that area having at least five
feet clear height between floor and ceiling.
   STREET/ROAD.  Any publicly dedicated right-of-way which affords traffic
circulation and principal means of access to abutting property, other than an
alley. Also, a private access easement which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something on or in the ground.
   TOWNSHIP.  Silver Creek Township, Cass County.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD.  The Township Board of Silver Creek Township.
   TRUCK TERMINAL.  A building or area in which freight brought by truck is
assembled and/or stored for routing or reshipment, or in which semi-trailers,
including tractor and/or trailer units and other trucks, are parked or stored.
   TRUE CASH VALUE.  The value placed on a property by the Township Assessor on
the last tax day, being December 31 of each year, as kept in the records of the
township.
   VEGETATIVE STRIP.  A strip of land at least 25 feet bordering each bank of a
waterway as measured from the ordinary high water mark, whichever is furthest
inland. Where required, a VEGETATIVE STRIP shall be maintained in its natural
vegetative state, except for the clearing of dead or noxious plants.
   VEHICLE SALES.  An establishment engaged in retail or wholesale sales from
the premises of motorized vehicles, along with incidental maintenance
servicing. Typical uses include new and used automobiles or truck sales, boat
sales, or recreational vehicle sales.
   VEHICLE SERVICE STATION.  Building and premises where the primary use is the
supply and dispensing at retail of motor fuels, lubricants, batteries, tires,
and other similar motor vehicle accessories.
   WASTE DUMPSTER.  A container used for the temporary storage of rubbish and/
or materials to be recycled pending collection, having capacity of at least one
cubic yard.
   WATERCRAFT.  Every kind of boat, vessel, tug, tender, however propelled, and
any boat, pontoon boat, hydrofoil, hovercraft, jet ski, personal watercraft,
jet boat, or similar vessel having a propulsion system of more than six
horsepower, marine construction or maintenance equipment, barge, research
vessel, weed harvester or dredge, or sailboat over 12 feet in length, but does
not include canoes, kayaks, paddle boats, rowboats (without an engine) or other
human-powered craft or sailboards.
   WATERWAY.  Any natural or artificial lake, pond or impoundment, river,
stream, creek, or any other body of water which has definite banks, a bed, and
visible evidence of a continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
   WATER FRONTAGE.  A parcel of land’s measurement along the water’s edge at
the ordinary high water mark. If more than one high water mark has been set by
a state agency or court of jurisdiction for seasonal or other reasons, then the
higher elevation shall be used for determinations in this chapter. The
measurement shall be made only along a natural shoreline and shall not include
any human-made channel, lagoon, canal, or the like.
   YARDS.  The open spaces on the same lot with a main building that are
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, and as defined herein.
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the building line of the main building. On waterfront lots in the
Waterfront District, the front yard is upland from the ordinary high water
mark.
      (2)   REAR YARD.  An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the building line of the main building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD.  An open space between a main building and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is the
horizontal distance from the nearest point on the side lot line to the building
line of the main building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-931.jpg]
 
   ZONING ACT.  The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act. (Public Act 110 of 2006,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.).
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The person designated by the Township Board to
administer the provisions of this chapter.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.  The Zoning Board of Appeals of Silver Creek
Township.
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. 11-03, passed 5-11-2011; Ord. passed 7-30-
2015; amended 4- -2013; amended 8- -2015; Ord. 16-04, passed 11-9-2016; Ord.
17-04, passed 5-10-2017; Ord. 17-06, passed 9-13-2017; Ord. 18-02, passed 8-8-
2018; Ord. 20-26, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 155.007  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after the publication date of the
notice of adoption. The effective date shall be August 21, 2015.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
STRUCTURE REGULATIONS
§ 155.020  AREA, HEIGHT, AND USE CONDITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless otherwise indicated, the provisions of this chapter shall be
applicable to all districts and uses.
   (A)   Required area or space. A lot or lots owned by the same person, or a
yard, court, parking area, frontage, dimension, or other space shall not be
divided, altered, or reduced so as to make it nonconforming with the minimum
requirements of this chapter. If already less than the minimum requirements of
this chapter, a lot or lots in common ownership or a yard, court, parking area,
or other space shall not be further divided, altered, or reduced so as to
increase its noncompliance with such minimum requirements. Lots with land
submerged for more than six months in any 12-month period shall not be
permitted to include such lands in the calculation of required lot size.
   (B)   Dwellings on more than one lot. If a structure is to be located on two
or more lots under single ownership, or if adjacent lots are required to
maintain minimum lot area or yard requirements, the entire parcel shall be
considered a lot for purposes of this chapter and the lots shall be legally and
automatically combined into one individual lot.
   (C)   Division of lots. The division of a parcel of land into two or more
lots or parcels shall require the approval of the Township Board. The Township
Board shall not approve such division of land unless it shall determine that
the proposed division complies with the requirements of this chapter, the
Michigan Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, as amended), and all other applicable township ordinances.
   (D)   Height exceptions. The following buildings and structures shall be
exempt from height regulations in all districts: parapet walls not exceeding
four feet in height, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
grain elevators, silos, stacks, elevated water towers, stage towers, monuments,
cupolas, domes, spires, wind-powered electric generators, essential public
service towers and poles, and television and radio reception and transmission
antennas and towers which do not exceed 100 feet in height.
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.021  REQUIRED LOTS, YARDS, AND FRONTAGE.
   (A)   All lots, yards, parking areas, or other spaces created after the
effective date of this chapter shall comply with the minimum requirements of
the district in which they are located.
   (B)   All lots or parcels shall have frontage upon a public street or a
private street meeting the requirements of this chapter, equal to the minimum
lot width required by the district in which it is located, except as noted in §
155.024 for lots on a cul-de-sac.
   (C)   Lot areas shall not include land located within the street right-of-
way for the purposes of computing minimum lot size or densities. Lots with land
submerged for more than six months in any 12-month period shall not be
permitted to include such lands in the calculation of required lot size or
density.
   (D)   All lots within the WD District shall have separate frontage on the
body of water, measured along the shoreline at the ordinary high water mark,
equal to or greater than the minimum lot width required by the underlying
district in which it is located. In no event shall a canal or channel shall be
excavated for the purpose of creating or increasing the separate frontage
required by this chapter. All front yard requirements for accessory buildings,
parking, fences, dish antennas, and other applicable provisions shall be met.
   (E)   (1)   Lots created after the effective date of this chapter having a
lot area of less than ten acres shall have a lot width which is equal to, or
greater than, one-fourth the depth of the lot.
      (2)   The lot width to depth ratio does not apply to remainders of parent
parcels existing after permitted divisions; however, the remainder of the
parent parcel shall contain the minimum lot area and lot width required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-933.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.022  PRINCIPAL USES OR MAIN BUILDINGS ON A LOT.
   (A)   In all districts, no more than one principal use or main building
shall be placed on a lot, except for groups of related industrial or commercial
buildings or multiple-family dwellings contained within a single, integrated
complex, sharing parking and access, or as part of a planned unit development,
approved according to the standards of §
155.156.
   (B)   If any part of any building is lawfully used for residential purposes
and the remainder thereof is lawfully used for business, commercial, or other
non-residential use, the building shall comply with all applicable requirements
of the underlying district if in a residential district, or with the
requirements of the R-2 District if in a non-residential district.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.023  DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   The required setback on the street side yard of a corner lot shall be half
the distance of the front yard setback in the district in which the property
(ies) lies.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; Ord. 21-02, passed 1-13-2021)
§ 155.024  MINIMUM LOT WIDTH FOR CUL-DE-SAC LOTS.
   The minimum lot width for a lot on a cul-de-sac shall be measured at the
minimum building line and shall not be diminished throughout the rest of the
lot. These lots shall have a front lot line width of at least 40 feet and in no
case shall the lot width within the required front yard be less than 40 feet.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.025  PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   (A)   Certain architectural features, such as cornices, bay windows (or
windows without foundations), gutters, chimneys, pilasters, and similar
features, may not project into required front, rear, or side yard.
   (B)   An open, unenclosed, and uncovered porch, deck, balcony, or window
awning shall not project into a required front yard or required side yard. In
no case shall a porch, deck, balcony, or awning be placed closer than 30 feet
to any front line or closer than eight feet to a rear line.
   (C)   Canopy roofs.
      (1)   Canopy roofs, such as those for gas pump islands accessory to
automobile service stations and other uses, drive-in restaurants, banks, and
other similar uses shall be permitted to encroach into any required yard,
provided that a minimum setback of 12 feet is maintained from any property
line.
      (2)   The height of the canopy roof shall not exceed 16 feet and be open
on all sides.
      (3)   The colors and design of the canopy shall be compatible with the
main building.
      (4)   Lighting and signs on or within the canopy shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter. Lights, including lenses and other portions of
the lighting fixture, used for canopies shall be completely recessed in the
canopy structure and shall not extend below the underside surface of the
canopy, except that such fixtures may be surface mounted, provided that the
fixtures are designed and constructed to achieve the same effect as the flush
mounted fixture.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-935.jpg]
 
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.026  CLEAR VISION CORNERS.
   (A)   On any street corner or driveway intersection with a public or private
street, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a
manner as to materially impede vision between a height of 36 inches and eight
feet above the established abutting road grade.
   (B)   For public and private street intersections, the clear vision area
shall be that area within a triangle formed by the two street right-of-way
lines and a line connecting them to points 20 feet from the intersection of the
right-of-way lines.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015, amended 1- -2006)
§ 155.027  CONTROL OF HEAT, GLARE, FUMES, DUST, NOISE, VIBRATION, AND ODORS.
   (A)   Every use shall be conducted and operated such that it is not
obnoxious, does not create a public nuisance, and is not dangerous by reason of
heat, glare, dust, noise, vibration, or odors beyond the lot on which the use
is located.
   (B)   All complaints against agricultural activities will be handled
according to the Right to Farm Act (Public Act 93 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§
286.471 through 286.474).
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.028  TEMPORARY DWELLINGS, USES, OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary offices or storage yards.
      (1)   Upon application, the Zoning Administrator may issue a permit for a
temporary office building or yard for construction materials and/or equipment
which is both incidental and necessary to construction at the site where
located. Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than six calendar
months and may be renewed by the Zoning Administrator for additional successive
periods of six calendar months or less at the same location, and only if such
building or yard is still incidental and necessary to construction at the site
where it is located.
      (2)   Upon application, the Zoning Administrator may issue a permit for a
temporary sales office or model home which is both incidental and necessary for
the sale or rental of real property in a new subdivision or housing project.
Each permit shall specify the location of the office and shall be valid for a
period of not more than six calendar months. The permit may be renewed by the
Zoning Administrator for up to four additional successive periods of six
calendar months or less at the same location, if the Zoning Administrator
determines that such office is still incidental and necessary for the sale or
rental of real property in a new subdivision or housing project.
   (B)   Temporary dwellings.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may issue a permit to an individual to
park and/or occupy a temporary dwelling in any district, provided that the
following conditions are met.
         (a)   The temporary dwelling will be used only as a temporary use on
the same lot while the property owner is constructing a permanent residence.
         (b)   A building permit has been issued for the construction of a
permanent residence to the property owner applying for the temporary dwelling
permit.
         (c)   The temporary dwelling is connected to an approved well and
septic system or public sanitary sewer.
         (d)   The temporary dwelling is sufficiently secured to the ground to
prevent overturning through the actions of high winds or other natural
conditions.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the required size of the
temporary dwelling and placement on the lot. This determination shall be
consistent with the standards of division (C) below.
      (3)   Upon applying for a temporary dwelling approval, the applicant
shall pay a fee as determined by the Township Board. The permit fee shall be
remitted to the Township Treasurer. All original temporary dwelling permits
shall be limited to a period of six months. If the permanent residence is not
approximately 50% complete, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, within
the six month period, a six month extension or less may be permitted by the
Zoning Administrator only for the purpose of completing the residence. No more
extensions shall be permitted, except by action of the Zoning Administrator
after consideration of the standards of division (C) below.
      (4)   Upon the filing of an application for continuation of any temporary
dwelling permit, the applicant shall pay a fee, as determined by the Township
Board, which shall be remitted to the Township Treasurer. The fee shall be for
the consideration of such application, and no refund shall be made in the event
of denial.
   (C)   In considering authorization for any temporary uses or structures, the
Zoning Administrator shall consider the following standards:
      (1)   The use or structure does not have an unreasonable detrimental
effect upon adjacent properties;
      (2)   The use or structure is reasonably necessary for the convenience
and safety of the construction proposed;
      (3)   The use or structure does not impact the nature of the surrounding
neighborhood; and
      (4)   Access to the use area or structure does not create any nuisance or
detriment to the surrounding uses.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator may attach reasonable conditions to temporary
uses or structures to ensure that the standards of this section are met.
   (E)   All temporary dwellings, buildings, and uses shall be removed from the
premises following the expiration of the permit and any extensions, or upon
completion of the permanent building or structure.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.029  ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   In any district, accessory uses, incidental only to a permitted use or
special land use, are permitted when located on the same property; provided
that accessory uses shall not involve the conduct of any business, trade, or
industry. This provision shall not exclude home occupations as regulated by §
155.034, nor shall it exclude the operation of a garage or yard sale in any
residential district, provided that the sale is not operated for more than a
total of three days within any 60-day period.
   (B)   Gardening and the keeping of domestic or farm animals, as regulated by
§
155.054, shall be considered customary to and commonly associated with the
operation of any permitted or special land use; provided any structure housing
farm animals shall be located not less than 50 feet from every lot line.
   (C)   Solar energy systems (SES) classified as small or medium, according to
the definitions of SES in §
155.241, are permitted as accessory uses only and according to the following
and subject to §
155.240:
      (1)   A small SES is a permitted accessory use in all districts.
      (2)   A medium SES is a permitted accessory use in C-Commercial and IND-
Industrial Districts.
      (3)   Small and medium SES are subject to §
155.240.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; Ord. 19-01, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 155.030  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings or structures, generally.
      (1)   When erected as an integral part of the main building, the
accessory building shall comply in all respects with the requirements of this
chapter applicable to the main building. Accessory buildings or garages shall
be considered as attached to the main building when the distance between
structures is enclosed by a breezeway, portico, covered colonnade, or similar
architectural device.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall be erected in the required
front yard.
      (3)   No less than ten feet shall be maintained between detached
accessory buildings or garages and a main building.
      (4)   Overnight occupancy is permissible if all safety and building codes
are inspected and approved for use.
      (5)   Accessory building may have a sink and toilet and must be hooked up
to an approved sanitary system. No kitchen or cooking appliances are allowed. A
shower and or tub is permitted in Ag/Res District only.
      (6)   An accessory building in a residential district shall not be
constructed without a permit being issued for the primary residence. If the
primary residence is not constructed according to the permit, the accessory
building shall be considered a nuisance per se and removed, except if it is in
AR District and used for farming.
   (B)   Residential accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be
permitted within residential districts or with any residential use provided
that the following restrictions are met.
      (1)   No more than two detached accessory buildings shall be permitted on
any residential lot, except for those used in farming operations, which shall
not be counted toward this total.
      (2)   The proposed accessory building shall generally be compatible with
the architectural style and building form of the principal building, except for
accessory buildings that perform specific functions based on their form.
      (3)   The total area of all accessory buildings including garages
(attached or detached) on lots less than one acre shall not exceed 1,500 square
feet, on lots of one to two acres shall not exceed 1,800 square feet, on lots
over two acres to three acres shall not exceed 2,400 square feet, on lots over
three acres to five acres shall not exceed 3,000 square feet, and on lots over
five acres shall not exceed 4,000 square feet except for those used in farming
operations, which shall not be counted toward the total square footage.
      (4)   An accessory building located in the rear yard shall not occupy
more than 25% of the required rear yard area.
      (5)   Accessory buildings in excess of 200 square feet must be designed,
constructed, and finished such that the exterior appearance is compatible with
that of the main building, except for those used in farming operations.
      (6)   No detached accessory building shall be constructed closer than ten
feet to any side or rear lot line, or within the district’s minimum required
side yard, whichever is less.
      (7)   An accessory building may be built to match the existing roof pitch
of the primary residence.
      (8)   The sidewall height of any accessory building shall be as follows.
 
Acres             Square Feet Ground Floor Area Max Wall Height
Less than 1 acre  0 (min) - 1,500 square feet   10 feet
Over 1 to 2 acres 0 (min) - 1,800 square feet   10 feet
Over 2 to 3 acres 0 (min) - 2,400 square feet   14 feet
Over 3 to 5 acres 0 (min) - 3,000 square feet   16 feet
Over 5 acres      0 (min) - 4,000 square feet   16 feet
 
   (C)   Other district accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall be
permitted within a non-residential district, provided that the following
restrictions are met.
      (1)   No more than two detached accessory buildings shall be permitted on
any lot.
      (2)   The total area of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 25% of
the floor area of the main building(s).
      (3)   Detached accessory buildings shall meet all setback requirements
for the district in which it is located.
      (4)   No accessory building shall exceed the permitted height for main
buildings in the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 9- -2011)
§ 155.031  FENCES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Fences erected within the required front yard in any district shall
not exceed four feet high of unobstructed chain link fence or shall not exceed
three feet in height of a type which is not more than 66% solid, so as not to
obscure vision at the right-of-way or property line of the lot or parcel on
which it is placed.
      (2)   Fences shall not be erected or maintained in any district in such a
way as to obstruct the vision of vehicle drivers within the triangular area
formed by the intersection of the street right-of-way lines and a line
connecting two points located on those intersecting right-of-way lines 20 feet
from the point of intersection. Fences constructed within this area shall not
exceed 36 inches in height.
      (3)   Any fence shall be maintained in good, safe, and sturdy condition.
   (B)   Residential districts or uses.
      (1)   Fences in the residential districts or residential uses in other
districts shall not exceed six feet in height, measured from the surface to the
uppermost portion of the fence.
      (2)   Fences in the residential districts or fences enclosing residential
uses in other districts shall not contain barbed wire or be electrified.
   (C)   Non-residential districts or uses.
      (1)   Fences in the non-residential districts which enclose storage lots
or other areas requiring security may contain barbed wire, provided that the
barbed portion of the fence not be nearer than six feet from the surface of the
ground. The total height of fences in the non-residential districts shall not
exceed eight feet.
   (D)   Waterfront District.
      (1)   Fences in the Waterfront District erected between the main building
and the shoreline shall not exceed four feet high of unobstructed chain link
fence or shall not exceed three feet in height of a type which is not more than
66% solid, so as not to obscure vision at the property line of the lot or
parcel on which it is placed.
      (2)   Fences in the Waterfront District shall not be placed lakeward of
the ordinary high water mark.
      (3)   Fences in the Waterfront District shall not exceed six feet in
height, measured from the surface to the uppermost portion of the fence.
      (4)   Fences in the Waterfront District shall not contain barbed wire or
be electrified.
      (5)   Fences in the Waterfront District shall not be placed lakeward of
the ordinary high water mark.
(Ord. 09-11, passed 11-11-2009; Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended  1- -2006; Ord.
20-26, passed 12-9-2020)
§ 155.032  SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Pools used for swimming or bathing shall be in conformity with the
requirements of this section; provided, however, these regulations shall not be
applicable to any such pool less than 24 inches deep or having a surface area
less than 250 square feet, except where such pools are permanently equipped
with a water recirculation system or involve permanent structural materials.
   (B)   A swimming pool or appurtenances thereto shall not be constructed,
installed, enlarged, or altered until a permit has been obtained from the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The outside edge of the pool wall shall not be located closer than ten
feet from any rear or side property line.
   (D)   Each pool shall be enclosed by a fence or wall with a height of at
least four feet, sufficient to make such body of water inaccessible to small
children. Such enclosure, including gates therein, must be not less than four
feet above the underlying ground; all gates must be self-latching with latches
placed four feet above the underlying ground or otherwise made inaccessible
from the outside to small children.
   (E)   All swimming pool installations shall comply with the State
Construction Code and all standard codes referred to therein.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.033  HOME BASED BUSINESSES.
   Except as otherwise noted in the district, home based businesses shall be
permitted in all residential districts, with the exception of the WD and R-
1 Districts, upon a finding by the Zoning Administrator that all of the
following conditions are and will continue to be met.
   (A)   No person, other than the resident occupants and one employee who need
not be a resident, shall be engaged on the premises as part of the operation of
the home based business.
   (B)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home based business shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants. The home based business shall be operated in its entirety on the
same premises as the principal dwelling. Accessory buildings meeting the
requirements of the district in which it is located may be used in conjunction
with the operation of the home based business. The area of the main building
dedicated to the operation of the home based business shall not exceed a floor
area equal to 20% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit.
   (C)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building or
premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of the home based business
other than that permitted by this section. One sign shall be permitted, not
exceeding four square feet in area, non-illuminated, and having a minimum
setback of one-half of the setback required for the main building and be not
greater than four feet high.
   (D)   Any traffic generated by such home based business shall not be so
great or occur at such a time so as to cause serious adverse effects within or
upon the surrounding neighborhood.
   (E)   No equipment or process shall be used on the premises of such home
based business which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, creates
excessive noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference.
   (F)   Parking or storage of vehicles or other equipment related to the home
based business shall not be permitted in any required yard setback. In
addition, such parking or storage shall be set back a minimum of 40 feet from
any side yard. The permitted parking or storage area shall be screened from
adjoining premises and adjacent streets by landscaping or screening meeting the
requirements of this section. Any outside parking or storage shall occupy no
more than 10% of the total lot area, to a maximum of 2,500 square feet.
   (G)   Only those goods or products which are clearly incidental to the home
based business shall be sold on the premises.
   (H)   Home based businesses existing at the time of the adoption of this
section shall be permitted to continue, but shall be subject to the
requirements. Home based businesses existing at the time of the adoption of
this section may not be extended to occupy more land without receiving the
approval in compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.034  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   All home occupations shall be subject to the following restrictions and
regulations.
   (A)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the main
building or accessory building and only by a person or persons residing in the
structure.
   (B)   No equipment or process shall be used on the premises of such home
occupation which, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, creates excessive
noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference.
   (C)   There shall be no alteration in the residential character of the
premises in connection with such home occupation and no more than 20% of the
living area of the dwelling shall be devoted to the home occupation.
   (D)   No merchandise or articles for sale shall be displayed outside of a
building. A sign is allowed not exceeding four square feet and not illuminated.
   (E)   Articles or materials used in connection with such home occupation
shall be stored within an enclosed building.
   (F)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be
provided off the street and not within the required front yard.
   (G)   Only related persons living at the residence can work at the
occupation.
   (H)   No work shall occur in accessory buildings.
   (I)   No commodity shall be sold.
   (J)   The home occupation shall and show no external evidence of change in
the building or premises.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.035  DISH ANTENNA.
   (A)   A dish antenna may be mounted on the roof of a main or accessory
building, provided it shall not exceed a height of five feet above the roof
line of the building, including the mounting structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-937.jpg]
 
   (B)   Dish antennas are permitted in all districts upon approval of the
Building Inspector, provided the setback requirements of §
155.030 for detached accessory buildings are maintained and the following
conditions satisfied.
      (1)   The antenna shall be permanently anchored to a foundation.
      (2)   No portion of the antenna shall conduct or display any advertising,
message, or other graphic representative other than the manufacturer’s name.
      (3)   No dish antenna shall exceed a height of 14 feet, including its
mounting structure.
      (4)   No dish antenna shall be located in the required front yard or
within 30 feet of a shoreline.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may approve antennas not meeting the above
requirements of this section, provided that the applicant establishes to his or
her satisfaction that the receiving functions of the antenna would be
restricted or blocked if constructed or placed in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   If the antenna is to be located in the side yard, or in the rear yard
on the street side of a lot, the Zoning Administrator may require that a
landscape screen be installed around the antenna to obstruct the view of the
antenna from adjoining properties or from the street.
   (E)   These regulations shall not apply to dish antennas that are one meter
(39.37 inches) or less in diameter in residential districts or two meters
(78.74 inches) or less in diameter in non-residential districts.
   (F)   These regulations are formulated to ensure that adequate protection
measures are provided in this section for ensuring that sight distance is not
impaired, that such dish antennas are located and constructed in a manner which
will not afford the potential for injury, and to ensure that the intent and
purposes of this chapter are met.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.036  ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by public
utilities or governmental units, boards, or commissions of overhead or
underground gas, electrical, steam, or water distribution, transmission,
collection, communication, or supply systems; including mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, hydrants, towers, poles, electrical substations, gas regulator
stations, utility pump and metering stations, and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith which are reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utility or municipal department
or commission or for the public health, safety, or general welfare is permitted
in any district.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the exceptions contained above:
      (1)   Electrical substations, gas/oil well equipment, and/or gas
regulator stations shall be enclosed with a fence or wall six feet high and
adequate to obstruct passage of persons or materials, except through securable
gates;
      (2)   Public utility buildings in any residential district shall not
include maintenance shops, repair garages, or storage yards as a principal or
accessory use; and
      (3)   Public utility facilities in any district shall be constructed and
maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Buildings shall be landscaped and
conform with the general character of the architecture of the surrounding
neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.037  ILLEGAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of a building or
structure with drinking water and/or sanitary facilities and located on a lot
which is not served by both public water and sewer facilities if its water
supply and/or sewage disposal facilities, as the case may be, does not comply
with the applicable rules and regulations governing waste and sewage disposal
of the county. Residential outdoor restrooms/outhouses are not permitted.
   (B)   Any unfinished basement or finished basement without a direct outside
access shall not be considered as living area for the calculation of required
living area of a dwelling. Any dwelling without a full floor above grade shall
be considered a basement dwelling.
   (C)   No building, structure, or recreational equipment intended for human
use or habitation shall be constructed or occupied unless it meets the minimum
requirements of this chapter, the Cass County Health Department, and the
adopted Building Code of the township, except as otherwise permitted in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.038  RAZING OF BUILDING.
   No building shall be razed until a building permit has been obtained from
the Building Inspector, who shall be authorized to require a performance bond
in any amount not to exceed $1,000 for each 1,000 square feet, or fraction
thereof, of floor area of the building to be razed. The bond shall be
conditioned on the applicant completing the razing within such reasonable
period as shall be prescribed in the permit and complying with such regulations
as to health and safety as the Building Inspector may from time to time
prescribe, including filling of excavations, proper termination of utility
connections, and other applicable building codes.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.039  MOVING OF BUILDING.
   No existing building or structure of any type or kind shall be moved into
the township or moved from one lot in the township to another lot in the
township unless a zoning compliance permit is issued by the Zoning
Administrator. All such buildings shall meet the requirements of this chapter
and the Construction Code as adopted by the township, and obtain such permits
as may otherwise be required.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES, USES, AND LOTS
§ 155.050  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Continuance of nonconforming structures, buildings, or uses.
      (1)   Except where specifically provided to the contrary and subject to
the provisions of this chapter, the lawful use of any building or structure or
of any land or premises which is existing and lawful on the effective date of
this chapter, or in the case of an amendment of this chapter, then on the
effective date of such amendment, may be continued although such use does not
conform with the provisions of this chapter or any amendment thereto.
      (2)   In addition, except where specifically provided to the contrary and
subject to the provisions of this section, a building or structure which is
existing and lawful on the effective date of this chapter or, in the case of an
amendment of this chapter, then on the effective date of such amendment, may be
maintained and continued although such building or structure does not conform
with the provisions of this chapter or any amendment thereto.
      (3)   Any use of a building or structure which is nonconforming by reason
of parking and loading provisions and which is thereafter made conforming or
less nonconforming by the addition of parking and/or loading space shall not
thereafter be permitted to use such additionally acquired parking and/or
loading space to meet requirements for any extension, enlargement, or change of
use which requires greater areas for parking and/or loading space.
   (B)   Building or structure under construction on effective date of chapter.
Any building or structure shall be considered as an existing and lawful
nonconforming use, and for purposes of this section, to have been in use for
the purpose for which constructed if, on the effective date of this chapter, a
building permit has been obtained therefore, if a building permit was required,
and substantial construction has occurred, which may include such operations as
the pouring of foundations and other work as the Zoning Administrator may deem
to be substantial, and is thereafter pursued diligently to conclusion.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.051  NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Enlargements or extensions.
      (1)   No nonconforming use of any land or structure shall hereafter be
enlarged or extended beyond the area occupied when the use became
nonconforming.
      (2)   Where the nonconforming setback of a building or structure is equal
to or less than one-half of the distance required by this chapter, the
nonconforming setback of the building may be extended along the same horizontal
plane as the existing nonconforming setback, provided that in so doing the
setback distance does not become more nonconforming. This provision shall not
be construed to apply to proposed extensions of buildings that are
nonconforming by reason of height.
      (3)   Extensions of nonconforming buildings and structures shall be
limited to no greater than 50% of the original nonconforming portion of the
building or structure being extended.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-939.jpg]
 
   (B)   Reconstruction or movement.
      (1)   A nonconforming building may be rebuilt on its same nonconforming
footprint, provided it complies with as many requirements as possible of the
zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   Should a nonconforming building or structure be moved for any
reason and for any distance, it shall be moved to a location which complies
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Should the owner of a nonconforming building or structure take any
action that causes such building or structure to be removed, either partially
or fully, any reconstruction of such building or structure shall be in
compliance with the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
   (C)   Expansion of nonconforming buildings or structures. Buildings or
structures nonconforming by reason of height, setback, and/or parking and
loading space provisions only may be extended, enlarged, altered, remodeled, or
modernized when the Zoning Administrator finds that the following conditions
are met.
      (1)   The building or structure shall comply with all height, setback,
and/or parking and loading provisions with respect to such extension,
enlargement, alteration, remodeling, or modernization.
      (2)   Such alteration, remodeling, or modernization will not
substantially extend the life of any nonconforming building or structure.
   (D)   Restoration and repair.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this section, nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any part of
any building or structure which is unsafe.
      (2)   None of the provisions of this section are meant to preclude normal
repairs and maintenance on any nonconforming building or structure that would
strengthen or correct any unsafe condition of the building or structure.
      (3)   All repairs and maintenance work required to keep a nonconforming
building or structure in sound condition may be made, but it shall not be
structurally altered to permit the use of such building or structure beyond its
natural life, except for repairs necessary to maintain public safety.
   (E)   Where a lawful building or structure exists at the effective date of
this chapter, or an amendment thereto, that does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter because of restrictions, such as lot area,
coverage, width, height, or yards, such building or structure may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.052  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Enlargements or extensions. No nonconforming use of any land or
structure shall hereafter be enlarged or extended beyond the area occupied when
the use became nonconforming, except after the approval of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, approval of which shall be granted only upon considering of all of the
following facts:
      (1)   The enlargement or extension will not substantially extend the
probable duration of such nonconforming use and that all enlargements since the
use became nonconforming are upon and limited to the same parcel on which the
nonconforming use was located at the time of the adoption of the existing
Township Zoning Ordinance;
      (2)   The enlargement or extension will not become a precedent for other
variations in the vicinity;
      (3)   The enlargement or extension does not, in total, exceed 50% of the
area of the originally nonconforming area;
      (4)   The enlargement or extension will not interfere with the use of any
other properties in the vicinity for the uses for which they have been zoned,
nor with their compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (5)   The enlargement or extension will not interfere with the use of
other properties in the vicinity for the uses for which they have been zoned,
nor with their compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Change or abandonment.
      (1)   The nonconforming use of a building or structure or of any land or
premises shall not be:
         (a)   Changed to any other nonconforming use;
         (b)   Re-established after it has been changed to a conforming use; or
         (c)   Re-established if abandoned for any reason for a period of more
than 12 months. In such cases, any subsequent use shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be determined to be abandoned if one or
more of the following conditions exists, and which may be deemed by the Zoning
Administrator to constitute an intent on the part of the property owner to
abandon the nonconforming use, if after 12 months:
         (a)   Utilities, such as water, gas, and electricity to the property,
have been disconnected;
         (b)   The property, buildings, and grounds have fallen into disrepair;
         (c)   Signs or other external indications of the existence of the
nonconforming use have been removed;
         (d)   Removal of equipment or fixtures which are necessary for the
operation of the nonconforming use; or
         (e)   Other actions which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator,
constitute an intention of the part of the property owner or lessee to abandon
the nonconforming use.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator’s decision shall be subject to appeal to
the Zoning Board of Appeals and it shall determine if the use was abandoned.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 3- -2010)
§ 155.053  NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   A lot which is platted, or otherwise lawfully of record as of the
effective date of this chapter, may be used as specified in the district,
provided the lot can meet the requirements of the County Health Department.
   (B)   The main building shall be located on the lot to assure maximum
compliance with all yard and setback requirements for the district in which the
lot is located.
   (C)   Accessory buildings and structures shall meet the setback requirements
for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; Res. 19-22, passed 11-13-2019)
§ 155.054  KEEPING OF PETS AND RAISING AND KEEPING FOWL OR ANIMALS.
   (A)   No more than three adult dogs or cats in combination shall be kept or
housed per each dwelling unit in any residential district.
   (B)   Any other provision of this chapter notwithstanding, the keeping,
housing, raising, or use of fowl or animals, other than customary house pets of
an occupant of the premises, is prohibited in the residential districts.
   (C)   Where such activities are pursued or conducted in any other district
as it may be allowed, the following is permitted:
      (1)   On lots of one-half acre, but less than one acre: raising and
keeping fowl and/or rabbits and/or other small animals for pets, not to exceed
three per family;
      (2)   On lots of one acre, but less than two acres: raising and keeping
fowl and/or rabbits and/or other small animals commonly raised for human
consumption in numbers no greater than is required to satisfy the personal
needs of the human occupiers of the premises;
      (3)   On lots of two acres, but less than five acres: the uses permitted
by division (C)(2) above, plus one horse or one cow or one pig per acre,
provided that any pig pen or building or structure housing farm animals shall
be a minimum of 50 feet from any property line; and
      (4)   On lots of five acres or more: the uses permitted by divisions (C)
(2) and (C)(3) above, plus one additional head of horse, cow, pig, or other
large domestic animal for each additional one-half acre above the first five
acres; provided that any pig pen or building or structure housing farm animals
shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any property line.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.055  PRIVATE EASEMENT/PRIVATE ROAD.
   (A)   Generally. The township has hereby determined that as large tracts of
land are divided, sold, transferred, and developed; private access roads are
being created to provide access to the newly divided properties which are not
subject to regulation under the Michigan Subdivision Control Act of 1967 and
other state regulations.  The township determines it is in the best interest of
the public health, safety, and welfare to regulate the construction,
improvement. Extension, relocation, and use of private roads to assure:
      (1)   That private roads are designed with width, surface, and grade to
assure safe passage and    maneuverability of private vehicles, police, fire,
ambulance, and other safety vehicles.
      (2)   That private roads are constructed of suitable materials to ensure
minimal maintenance and safe passage.
      (3)   That private roads will be constructed so as to protect against or
minimize soil erosion and prevent damage to the lakes, streams, wetlands, and
natural environment of the Township.
   (B)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PRIVATE ROAD.  A road under private ownership which has been constructed
upon a private road easement for the purpose of providing access to five or
more parcels of land.
      PRIVATE ROAD EASEMENT.  A private road that provides access solely to
four parcels of land and does not require the private road to be constructed.
   (C)   Private road easement; minimum width. A private road easement which
only provides access to a maximum of four single-family lots or dwelling units
may have a minimum width of 40 feet. The center of the traveled portion of the
road shall be located in the center of the easement.
   (D)   General requirements to private road easement/private road.
      (1)   A private road shall not be constructed, except in accordance with
the standards and requirements of this section and must meet Cass County Road
Commission specifications.
      (2)   If an existing private road is proposed to be extended then the
existing portion shall be improved, along with the new portion, to meet the
standards and requirements of this section and must meet Cass County Road
Commission specifications.
      (3)   Private roads are permitted in all zoning districts.
      (4)   Private road easements/private road shall not interconnect with the
public street network in a manner that will preclude the extension of public
streets if necessary to further the logical, orderly and efficient development
of the overall public street network.
      (5)   Private roads that may be exempt from this section are those
private roads that would be subject to site plan review per this section, such
as but not limited to: planned unit development, manufactured housing park,
shopping centers.
   (E)   Minimum standards for private road.
      (1)   (a)   A private road shall be located within a private road
easement.  Such easement shall not be less than 66 feet in width.
         (b)   The center of the traveled portion of the road shall be located
in the center of the private road easement.
      (2)   At the dead end of such easement, the easement shall widen such
that there is space adequate to provide for a turnaround to accommodate
emergency and maintenance equipment.
      (3)   A parcel shall have frontage on the private road easement which is
at least equal to the minimum parcel width required for the zoning district in
which the parcel is located.
      (4)   A private road easement/private road shall intersect and connect to
a public road.  A private road easement/private road shall not be approved
which accesses a public road by another private road easement/private road.
      (5)   A private road shall be constructed or extended when a private road
easement serves five or more parcels.
      (6)   A private road shall be given a street name that is not the same or
similar to any other street name in the county, to be verified by Cass County
Road Commission.  A street sign meeting Cass County Road Commission standards
shall be erected and maintained by the applicant where such private road
intersects any public road.
      (7)   A dwelling unit on a private road shall display a house number,
minimum of three inches in height, in a manner so that the number is at all
times readily visible from the private road.
      (8)   In determining the location of a private road easement,
consideration shall be given to safety of traffic entering and exiting the
private road easement in relationship to the public road.
   (F)   Road maintenance agreement. The owner(s) and any other parties with
legal interest in the proposed private road shall provide to the township, a
road maintenance agreement, access easement agreement, list of parcel numbers,
and deed restrictions, all must be recorded with Cass County, which shall
provide for the perpetual private maintenance of such roads and/or easements to
a necessary and reasonable standard to serve the parties having an interest in
the private road.  These documents shall, at a minimum, contain the following
provisions:
      (1)   A method of initiating and financing of such road in order to keep
the road is a reasonably good and usable condition that will not constitute a
danger to the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the township
and are readily accessible to and usable by emergency vehicles in all types of
weather.
      (2)   A workable method of apportioning the costs of maintenance and
improvements, including the potential of future paving.
      (3)   A notice that no public funds of the township are to be used to
build, or maintain the private road.  All costs shall be the responsibility of
the property owners.
      (4)   Easements to the public for purposed use of utilities, emergency
and other public vehicles for whatever public services are necessary.
      (5)   A provision that the owners of any and all of the property using
the road shall refrain from prohibiting, restricting, limiting or in any manner
interfering with normal ingress and egress and use by any of the owners. 
Normal ingress and egress and use shall include use by family, guests,
invitees, tradesmen, and others bound to tor returning from any of the parcels
having a right to use the road.
      (6)   That any structures or parcels thereafter created or constructed on
the private road shall also be subject to the road maintenance and that said
agreement shall run with the land.
   (G)   Procedure for private road.  An application to establish or extend a
private road shall be filed with the township along with a fee as set by the
Township Board.  The application shall contain or be accompanied by the
following information:
      (1)   The name(s) of the owners and any other parties having any legal
interest in the private road and the parcels across which it is to be
constructed.
      (2)   Parcel numbers of the parcels over which the private road is to be
constructed.
      (3)   A scaled drawing showing the location, grade, elevation, route,
dimensions, specifications and design of the private road and any proposed
extensions of the road, existing or proposed curb cuts and the location and
distance to any public street which the private road is to intersect.
      (4)   A scaled drawing illustrating the proposed lot division.
      (5)   An approved driveway permit from the Cass County Road Commission.
      (6)   A statement from the Cass County Road Commission indicating there
is no known duplication of the proposed private road name.
      (7)   The permit application, drawings and other required information
shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for completion and then go before
the Planning Commission for a decision.
   (H)   Final compliance requirements.
      (1)   Upon completion of the private road, the following shall be on file
with the township:
         (a)   A letter from the Cass County Road Commission that the road has
been constructed in compliance with Cass County Road Commission specification;
         (b)   Documentation that the road maintenance agreement, access
easement and deed restrictions have been recorded with the Cass County Register
of Deeds office;
         (c)   A driveway permit for the private road from the Cass County Road
Commission or the State of Michigan Highway Department, whichever applies;
         (d)   A verification letter from the Cass County Road Commission that
the new street name is not the same or similar to any other street name in the
county; and
         (e)   Planning Commission minutes and/or signatures verifying
approval.
      (2)   Upon verification of all items required for final compliance, the
Township Supervisor shall issue a letter of final approval.
   (I)   Permits for dwellings on private road.  A building permit shall not be
issued for any principal dwelling which derives its primary access from a
private road unless a letter of final approval of the private road has been
issued.
   (J)   Township liability.  The owner(s) of the private road agree by
applying for and securing approval to construct the private road that they
shall indemnify and save and hold the township harmless from all claims for
personal injury and/or property damage arising out of the failure to properly
construct, maintain, repair and replace the private road.  Such wording shall
appear on the application for approval and be signed by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 11- -2007; Ord. 16-02, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 155.056  STORAGE AND REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The carrying out of repair, restoration, and maintenance procedures or
projects on vehicles in any residential district, when such work is not
conducted entirely within the interior of a building, shall be subject to the
following limitations.
      (1)   Procedures or projects exceeding 48 hours in duration or which
require the vehicle to be immobile or inoperative in excess of 48 hours shall
be carried out within a garage. Only one such period shall be permitted within
a single 30-day period.
      (2)   Inoperative or unlicensed vehicles and vehicle parts shall be
stored inside a building.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, tenant, or lessee of any lot in a
residential district to permit the open storage or parking outside of a
building of:
      (1)   Mobile homes not used as dwellings (except as may be permitted in §
155.028); and/or
      (2)   Semi-tractor trucks and/or semitrailers, bulldozers, earth
carriers, cranes, or any other similar equipment or machinery, unless parked
thereon while in use in construction being conducted on such lot.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.057  LIGHTING.
   (A)   All lighting upon any premises, regardless of the district, shall be
arranged so that such lighting does not produce any glare which is a nuisance
or annoyance to residents or occupants of other premises or to the traveling
public on public roadways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8d7b474fd9c9c7cb309946353d248e0e51bbb7b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-941.jpg]
 
   (B)   Light fixtures shall be no higher than 20 feet and shall be provided
with light cut-off fixtures that direct light downward. For parking lots
serving a single building or groups of related commercial, industrial, or
office buildings in excess of 100 spaces, the Planning Commission may permit a
higher light fixture in selected locations within the parking lot where
existing or planned residential areas will not be affected.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.058  MAINTENANCE OF LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERS.
   (A)   The owner of the land on which landscaping or buffers have been
required by this chapter or by action of the township, pursuant an approval
granted by this chapter or other township ordinances, shall initially plant or
cause to be planted the landscaping and/or buffer and shall, thereafter, make
and perform or cause to be made and performed all necessary maintenance and
replacement for the landscaping and/or buffer.
   (B)   All trees or other landscape material required or used as part of the
landscaping and/or buffer which is lost, dies, or is seriously damaged for any
reason shall be replaced not later than the following planting season with
equivalent landscape material.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.059  STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   Recreational equipment may be located outside of an enclosed building on any
lot within a residential district.
   (A)   If located on an interior lot, recreational equipment shall not be
located within the front yard. If located on a corner lot, recreational
equipment shall not be located in the side yard facing the street. If located
on a through lot, recreational equipment shall not be located in the front yard
or rear yard between a public street and rear yard setback.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, recreational equipment
may be parked within a yard, but not within the required yard setback, for
cleaning, loading, or unloading purposes for not more than 72 hours within a
seven-day period.
   (C)   Recreational equipment may be used for living or housekeeping purposes
for a period not exceeding 14 days in any calendar year, provided that running
water or indoor sewage facilities within such equipment is not utilized and
provided that the storage requirements of this section are met.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.060  FLOOR AREAS AND GRADE LEVEL.
   No building or structure intended for human use or habitation shall be
constructed on land which are subject to flooding or on land where a minimum of
one foot between finished grade level and flood level cannot be maintained.
Filling to bring to grade level is not permitted.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.061  MEDICAL MARIHUANA.
   (A)   A primary caregiver shall be allowed as a permitted home occupation in
the Residential, R-1 and R-2, Agricultural Residential AR, and WD Waterfront
Districts pursuant to compliance with the Administrative Rules of the Michigan
Department of Community Health, the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Public Act
208, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq. and the requirements of this section.
As a permitted home occupation, it is at all times subordinate and incidental
to the use of the dwelling as a residence.
   (B)   The requirements for a primary caregiver as a permitted home
occupation shall be as follows.
      (1)   The medical use of marihuana shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq. (“Act”), and the Administrative Rules of the Michigan
Department of Community Health, (“Administrative Rules”), as they may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   A primary caregiver must be located outside of a 1,000-foot radius
from any real property where children are regularly present, comprising
specifically of: a daycare facility; a church, synagogue, or other place of
religious worship; a recreational park, public community center, private youth
center, playground, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility; a public or
private preschool, elementary school, middle school, high school, community
college, vocational or secondary school, a public or private college, junior
college, or university; any and all other schools that have different name
references but serve students of the same age; or housing facilities owned by a
public housing authority.
      (3)   Not more than one primary caregiver within a single-family dwelling
shall be permitted to service qualifying patients who do not reside with the
primary caregiver.
      (4)   Not more than five qualifying patients shall be assisted with the
medical use of marihuana within any given calendar week.
      (5)   All medical marihuana shall be contained within the main
residential structure in an enclosed, locked facility inaccessible on all sides
and equipped with locks or other security devices that permit access only by
the primary caregiver or qualifying patient.
      (6)   All necessary building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical
permits shall be obtained for any portion of the residential structure in which
electrical wiring, lighting, and/or watering devices are located, installed, or
modified that support the cultivation, growing, or harvesting of marihuana.
      (7)   If a room with windows is utilized as a marihuana growing location,
any lighting methods that exceed usual residential use between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall employ shielding methods, without alteration to the
exterior of the residence, to prevent ambient light spillage that causes or
creates a distraction or nuisance to adjacent residential properties.
      (8)   Nothing in this section or in any companion regulatory provision
adopted in any other provision of this section is intended to grant, nor shall
they be construed as granting, immunity from criminal prosecution for growing,
sale, consumption, use, distribution, or possession of marihuana not in strict
compliance with the Act and the Administrative Rules and this section. To this
end, the sale, distribution, cultivation, manufacture, possession, delivery, or
transfer of marihuana to treat or alleviate a qualifying patient shall only be
conducted as a home occupation, and shall not be permitted in any other zoning
classification of this chapter. Also, since federal law is not affected by the
Act or the Administrative Rules, nothing in this section or in any companion
regulatory provision adopted in any other provision of this section is intended
to grant, nor shall they be construed as granting, immunity from criminal
prosecution under federal law. Neither this section nor the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq., protects users, caregivers
or the owners of properties on which the medical use of marihuana is occurring
from federal prosecution, or from having his or her property seized by federal
authorities under the Federal Controlled Substances Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 801
et seq.
      (9)   Patients may visit the site only during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. No more than five patients may visit the site in any single day, and
no more than two patients shall be on the premises at any one time.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 6- -2011; Ord. 17-04, passed 5-10-2017) 
Penalty, see §
155.999
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.075  DISTRICT.
   The township is hereby divided into the following zoning districts.
Letter District Name Chapter Section
Letter District Name                  Chapter Section
AR     Agricultural/Rural Residential §
                                      155.078
C      Commercial                     §
                                      155.083
IND    Industrial                     §
                                      155.084
MHP    Manufactured Home Park         §
                                      155.082
R-1    Single-Family Residential      §
                                      155.080
R-2    Residential                    §
                                      155.081
WD     Waterfront District            §
                                      155.079
 
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.076  ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The locations and boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby
established as shown on a map, as the same may be amended from time to time,
entitled the Silver Creek Township Zoning Map, which accompanies the Township
Zoning Ordinance and is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
section as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of zoning districts as
shown on the zoning map, the following rules of construction and interpretation
shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow those centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township boundaries
shall be construed as following township boundaries.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following shorelines or lake
or stream beds shall be construed as following the shorelines or lake or stream
beds, and in the event of change in the location of shorelines or lake or
stream beds, shall be construed as moving with the shoreline and lake or stream
bed.
      (5)   Lines parallel to streets without indication of the depth from the
street line shall be construed as having a depth of 200 feet from the front lot
line.
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following property lines,
section lines, or other lines of a government survey shall be construed as
following such property lines, section lines, or other lines of a government
survey as they exist as of the effective date of this chapter or applicable
amendment thereto.
   (C)   When there is any question as to the location of any boundary line
between zoning districts which cannot be resolved by the rules stated above,
upon a request for an interpretation of the zoning maps, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall establish the boundary based upon said maps and all available
information relating thereto and shall establish the boundaries to carry out
the intent and purposes of this chapter and the Master Plan.
   (D)   Whenever all or part of a street, alley, or other public way is
vacated, it shall automatically become a part of the district to which it
attaches. If a vacated area is bordered by two different districts, the area is
divided along a line half way between them according to the adjacent district,
unless the Township Board shall otherwise designate.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.077  AREAS NOT INCLUDED WITHIN A DISTRICT.
   In every case where land has not been included within a district on the
zoning map, it shall be in the AR Zoning District, or as determined by the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.078  AR AGRICULTURAL/RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This district is intended for large tracts
used for farming, or those which are idle, and single-family dwellings. It is
intended for agricultural uses, other uses generally associated with
agriculture, single-family residential development on larger lots, and related
non-residential uses. The overall purpose of this district is to preserve
larger tracts of land for agricultural use and to allow for residential
development at appropriate densities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the AR District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Farms for both general and specialized farming, together with farm
dwelling and buildings and other installations useful to such farms;
      (2)   Detached, single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Family day care;
      (4)   State licensed residential family care facilities;
      (5)   Home based business in accordance with the requirements of §
155.033 and home occupations in accordance with the requirements of §
155.034;
      (6)   Private schools, churches, libraries, parks, playgrounds, and
community center buildings;
      (7)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any permitted or special land use;
      (8)   Utility and public service buildings, without storage yards, but
not including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems;
      (9)   Open space developments in accordance with the provisions of §
155.179, except that the special land use approval procedures shall not be
required;
      (10)   Road side stands for sale of produce; and
      (11)   Farm markets and agricultural tourism business.
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the AR District may be
used for the following purposes, following approval by the Planning Commission
as a special land use as regulated by §
155.150:
      (1)   Country clubs, golf courses, riding stables, gun clubs, and
publicly-owned athletic grounds and parks, and other similar uses, including
related uses, such as snack bars, small retail shops selling goods directly
related to the primary use;
      (2)   Removal and processing of topsoil, stone, rock, sand, gravel, lime,
or other soil or mineral resources;
      (3)   Public or private campgrounds;
      (4)   Commercial kennels;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (6)   Intensive livestock operations;
      (7)   Planned unit developments;
      (8)   Recreational vehicle and boat storage;
      (9)   Private hunting facilities; and
      (10)   Rental halls.
   (D)   District regulations. No building or structure, nor the enlargement of
any building or structure, shall be hereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building,
structure, or enlargement.
Building height                   35 feet
Front yard                        50 feet
Lot coverage                      25%
Minimum dwelling first floor area 850 square feet
Minimum dwelling width            23 feet
Minimum lot area                  1 acre
Minimum lot width                 200 feet
Rear yard                         30 feet
Side yard                         30 feet (each side)
 
   (E)   Site plan review. See §§
155.095 through
155.101.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading/signs. See §§
155.115 through
155.118 and
Chapter 153.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 8- -2005; amended  2- -2012; amended 3- -2013;
Ord.19-20, passed 8-6-2019)
§ 155.079  WD WATERFRONT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose.
      (1)   The Waterfront District is characterized by uses which are strongly
oriented toward the residential and recreational experience and enjoyment of
the waterways and shorelines of the township.
      (2)   The purpose of these regulations is to recognize the unique
physical, economic, and social attributes of waterfront and shoreline
properties and to ensure that the structures and uses in this District are
compatible with and protect these unique attributes. Such physical, economic,
and social attributes will be protected by permitting and regulating
watercraft, private piers, docks, and hoists incidental to the structures
located on the waterfront and shoreline properties.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the WD District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Detached, single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Family day care;
      (3)   State licensed residential family care facilities;
      (4)   Home occupations in accordance with requirements of §
155.034;
      (5)   Schools, churches, libraries, parks, playgrounds, and community
center buildings;
      (6)   Private boat docks, accessory to residential uses, shall be used
only by persons and their guests residing on the premises, and shall not be
leased, rented, or otherwise made available for compensation, except in
conjunction with the lease or rental of the dwelling unit on the same lot,
unless approved as a marina, subject to requirements of this division (C);
      (7)   Docking, anchoring, and moorage of non-recreational watercraft
subject to
Chapter 90 of this code of ordinances;
      (8)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any permitted or special land use;
      (9)   Permanent pier; and
      (10)   Permanent boat hoist.
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the WD Waterfront District
may be used for the following purposes, following approval by the Planning
Commission as a special land use as regulated by §§
155.130 through
155.136:
      (1)   Public or private campgrounds;
      (2)   Public or private boat launches;
      (3)   Marinas;
      (4)   Private docks accessory to non-residential land uses;
      (5)   Planned unit developments; and
      (6)   Private dock on vacant residential parcel.
   (D)   District regulations.
      (1)   The regulations of this section apply to all parcels or lots having
frontage on a waterway and as indicated on the zoning map.
Front Yard (Waterfront) 30 Feet (See division (D)(3) below)
Front Yard (Waterfront)                      30 Feet (See division (D)(3)
                                             below)
Side yard Lots greater than 40 feet in width 7 feet
          Lots 40 feet and less in width     5 feet
Rear yard Lots 80 feet and greater in depth  20 feet
          Lots less than 80 feet in depth    8 feet
Building height                              35 feet maximum
Lot coverage                                 30% maximum
Minimum lot area                             6,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                            60 feet
Minimum dwelling first floor area            850 square feet total
Minimum dwelling width                       23 feet
 
      (2)   In no event shall a parcel of land abut a human-made canal or
channel, and no canal or channel shall be excavated for the purpose of
increasing the separate frontage required by this chapter.
      (3)   The front yard shall be measured from the edge of the road right-
of-way or easement closest to the dwelling if a road separates dwellings from
the lake.
      (4)   An open, unenclosed, and uncovered porch, or deck, exceeding more
than 18 inches off the ground, may not project into a required yard setback. A
balcony or window awning shall not project into any required yard setback.
      (5)   The permanent storage of gasoline, oil, diesel, or other fuel is
permitted in the WD District with the following conditions.
         (a)   Aboveground storage tanks (ASTs).
            1.   All ASTs with a capacity larger than 1,100 gallons or for
commercial use shall be subject to facility registration requirements of the
State of Michigan.
            2.   All ASTs greater than 660 gallons or facilities with a total
storage of greater than 1320 gallons shall comply with the State of Michigan’s
Part 5 Spillage of Oil and Polluting Materials administrative rules, as
applicable.
            3.   All ASTs with a capacity of less than 1,100 gallons and for
private use shall meet all the requirements of the Storage of Flammable and
Combustible Liquids Rules of the Michigan Fire Prevention Code, and:
               a.   Shall be located 50 feet from the nearest private well;
               b.   Shall be located 50 feet or more from any building;
               c.   Shall be maintained leak-free and structurally sound;
               d.   Fill and dispensing apparatus shall remain locked at all
times the tank is not actively being filled or the contents are not actively
being dispensed; and
               e.   Shall be located at least 50 feet from all surface water or
wetlands except where the following additional conditions are met:
                  i.   The tank’s capacity is less than 300 gallons;
                  ii.   The tank is of double wall construction with a method
of detection if the inner wall leaks;
                  iii.   Secondary containment reservoir of concrete or other
impervious material is provided and maintained in the amount of the capacity of
the tank(s) to contain leakage; and
                  iv.   A certificate of insurance is provided on an annual
basis and shall be site specific to the location, with liability limits of
$1,000,000 minimum, naming the township as co-insured protecting against
environmental contamination.
         (b)   Underground storage tanks (USTs). Are subject to the laws and
permitting requirements of the State of Michigan.
   (E)   Site plan review. See §§
155.095 through
155.101.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading/signs. See §§
155.115 through
155.118 and
Chapter 153.
   (G)   Watercraft and docking.
      (1)   Application to planned unit developments. The provisions of this
division (G) cannot be overridden in or by an approved planned unit development
under the Township Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Leasing or renting of dock space. Leasing or renting of dock space
or moorage is hereby prohibited except in conjunction with the lease or rental
of the dwelling unit on the same lot or as permitted in approved marinas.
      (3)   Number of docks. One pier or dock shall be allowed, used, or
installed for each platted lot or parcel meeting all legal minimum water
frontage, area, and width requirements imposed by the Township Zoning Ordinance
for the zoning district in which the lot or parcel is located. On a parcel with
more than 100 feet of contiguous frontage (measured at the ordinary high water
mark), a second pier or dock may be allowed.
      (4)   Common docks. Two adjoining lots or parcels which have frontage
directly on a lake may share one common dock being utilized in total for both
parcels if the dock is safe and consistent with free navigability, meets all
applicable requirements of this chapter, and the same is approved by the
township in writing. No other docks shall be allowed for the two lots or
parcels except the approved one common dock.
      (5)   Permanent pier (dock). Permanent pier (dock) shall be allowed as a
permitted use in the WF District, provided all the following conditions have
been met:
         (a)   Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) permit has
been obtained;
         (b)   All requirements of §§
155.270 through
155.278 have been met; and
         (c)   The permanent pier serves one single-family residential
property, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter.
      (6)   Permanent boat hoist. The construction of a permanent boat hoist
for single-family residential, recreational watercraft use shall be allowed as
a permitted use in the WF District provided the following conditions have been
me:
         (a)   Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) permit has
been obtained;
         (b)   All requirements of §§
155.270 through
155.278 have been met; and
         (c)   The structure shall not have permanent covers, sides, or roofs.
Temporary covers made of canvas or fabric can be included.
      (7)   Boat storage device design requirements. Each boat cradle, boat
lift, or shore station placed on any frontage shall meet all of the following
requirements, in addition to the other requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   It shall not have a rigid roof and/or walls other than the
support structure and vinyl covering kits provided by manufactures of cradles
and lifts;
         (b)   It shall not have tracks or appurtenances extending onto dry
land;
         (c)   All portions of the device shall be located lakeside of the
shoreline when in use during the boating season;
         (d)   It shall be designed so that watercraft are removed from the
water and are stored above the water; and
         (e)   It shall not be designed or used for more than one watercraft,
except those designed for personal watercraft which may hold no more than two
personal watercraft.
      (8)   Channels and canals. No watercraft shall be launched, moored, or
utilized in any human-made channel or canal which has no other lake frontage.
Furthermore, no dock or mooring shall be allowed, used, or installed in human-
made channel or canal or at any property abutting any human-made channel or
canal. This section shall not apply to any channel or canal which lawfully
existed prior to adoption of this chapter, nor to any properties which abutted
or fronted on any such channel or canal lawfully in existence prior to that
date.
      (9)   Continuation of lawful existing uses. The lawful moorage, docking,
or launching of watercraft or boats or usage of piers, docks, hoists, shore
stations, boat cradles, or rafts on or from a particular lot, parcel, or
separate frontage occurring prior to the date of adoption of this chapter shall
be permitted to continue without change; however, any change, alteration, or
expansion of such prior usage which occurs after the date this chapter becomes
effective shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter. For purposes
of this division (G)(10), normal maintenance and repair of docks due to normal
wear and tear shall not be deemed a change, alteration, or expansion of prior
usage. The burden of asserting a defense under this division (G)(10) is on the
property owner who asserts a lawful existing use.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 11- -2013; Ord. 16-01, passed 2-10-2016; Ord.
16-03, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 155.080  R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This District is intended for larger lots
used for single-family dwellings. The overall purpose of this District is to
allow the use of larger lots for residential development without sewer services
and certain related non-residential uses. Farming operations being conducted
within this District shall be allowed to continue.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the R-1 District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Family day care;
      (3)   State licensed residential family care facilities;
      (4)   Home occupations in accordance with the requirements of §
155.034; and
      (5)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any permitted or special land use.
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the R-1 District may be
used for the following purposes, following approval by the Planning Commission
as a special land use as regulated by §§
155.130 through
155.136:
      (1)   Country clubs, golf courses, and publicly owned athletic grounds
and parks, including related uses such as snack bars, small retail shops
selling goods directly related to the primary use;
      (2)   Roadside stands for sale of produce;
      (3)   Private schools, churches, libraries, parks, playgrounds, and
community center buildings;
      (4)   Planned unit developments;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (6)   Open space developments; and
      (7)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards, but not
including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems.
   (D)   District regulations. No building or structure, nor the enlargement of
any building of structure, shall be thereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building,
structure, or enlargement.
Building height                   35 feet
Front yard                        30 feet
Lot coverage                      25%
Minimum dwelling first floor area 850 square feet total
Minimum dwelling width            23 feet
Minimum lot area                  12,000 square feet with sewer
                                  21,500 square feet without sewer
Minimum lot width                 75 feet
Rear yard                         30 feet
Side yard                         10 feet minimum (each side)
 
   (E)   Site plan review. See §§
155.095 through
155.101.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading/signs. See §§
155.115 through
155.118 and
Chapter 153.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.081  R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This District is primarily intended for
residential uses at higher densities than otherwise allowed in the other
residential districts. Certain related non-residential uses are also provided.
As with the other residential districts, farming operations being conducted
within this District shall be allowed to continue.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the R-2 District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Family day care;
      (3)   State licensed residential family care facilities;
      (4)   Home occupations in accordance with the requirements of §
155.034;
      (5)   Home based businesses in accordance with the requirements of §
155.033; and
      (6)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any permitted or special land use.
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the R-2 District may be
used for the following purposes, following approval by the Planning Commission
as a special land use as regulated by §§
155.130 through
155.136:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (3)   State licensed residential group care facilities;
      (4)   Group and commercial day care homes and facilities;
      (5)   Private schools, churches, libraries, parks, playgrounds, and
community center buildings;
      (6)   Planned unit developments;
      (7)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (8)   Utility and public service buildings, without storage yards, but
not including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems; and
      (9)   Public and private campgrounds
   (D)   District regulations. No building or structure, nor the enlargement of
any building of structure, shall be thereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building,
structure, or enlargement.
Building height                     35 feet
Front yard                          30 feet
Lot coverage                        25%
                                    Single-family dwellings - 850 square feet
                                    total
                                    Two-family dwellings - 850 square feet
Minimum dwelling - first floor area total per unit
                                    Multiple-family dwellings - 850 square feet
                                    total (1 or 2 bedroom units); 100 square
                                    feet for each additional bedroom
Minimum dwelling width              23 feet
                                    Single-family dwellings area - 12,000
                                    square feet with sewer; area 21,500 square
                                    feet without sewer lot width-75 feet.
Minimum lot area and width          Two-family dwellings area - 18,000 square
                                    feet with sewer; area, 1 acre without
                                    sewer; lot width-100 feet
                                    Multiple-family area - 1 acre; lot width-
                                    150 feet
Rear yard                           50 feet
                                    Single- and two-family dwellings - 10 feet
Side yard                           minimum (each)
                                    Multiple-family dwellings - 30 feet (each)
                                    Non-residential buildings - 30 feet (each)
 
   (E)   Site plan review. See §§
155.095 through
155.101.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading/signs. See §§
155.115 through
155.118 and
Chapter 153.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.082  MHP MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. The Manufactured Home Park District is
intended to provide regulations for manufactured home residential developments
to provide for additional variety in housing opportunities and choices.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the MHP District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Manufactured homes located in a state-licensed manufactured home
park;
      (2)   Manufactured home parks in accordance with the requirements of
division (D) below;
      (3)   State licensed residential family care facilities; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental to
any permitted or special land use.
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the MHP District may be
used for the following purpose, following approval by the Planning Commission
as a special land use as regulated by §§
155.130 through
155.136: utility and public service buildings, without storage yards, but not
including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems.
   (D)   Regulations for licensed manufactured home parks.
      (1)   All manufactured home parks shall comply with the applicable
requirements of Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through
125.2350, as amended, provided further that these developments meet the
standards and conditions and all other provisions as herein established.
      (2)   The parking of more than one manufactured home on a single parcel
of land or on two or more adjoining parcels of land under common ownership
shall be illegal in the township, irrespective of the requirements of any other
ordinance of the township, unless such parcel or parcels of land shall have
been approved as a licensed manufactured home park under the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured home shall be occupied within the park area until
such time as a manufactured home occupancy permit shall be issued by the
Building Inspector. The permit shall be for a one-year duration. The permit
shall be issued by the Building Inspector on payment by the owner of the
manufactured home park of a fee, which shall be established from time to time
by the Township Board for each manufactured home park lot.
      (4)   The manufactured home park occupancy permit shall be issued by the
Building Inspector only after inspection of the premises, and after making a
finding that the conditions as set forth below have been fulfilled and complied
with by the developer. A permit may be issued if weather conditions or other
temporary obstructions make complete compliance impossible. In such case, the
Zoning Administrator may require the submission of a performance guarantee, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 19.09, covering the cost of the
necessary improvements, provided that such improvements are completed within
six months from the date of the request for the permit.
      (5)   All applications for manufactured home parks must be approved by
the Township Board, upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission, in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (6)   The Planning Commission and Township Board shall consider the
following standards when considering an application for a manufactured home
park:
         (a)   Whether the proposal is in accordance with the Master Plan;
         (b)   Whether the proposal meets all the design standards of this
chapter, other applicable local codes, regulations, and ordinances, and
applicable state and federal requirements;
         (c)   Whether the density of the proposed development could adversely
affect adjacent properties and land uses;
         (d)   Whether the proposed development can be reasonably expected to
constitute a health hazard or public nuisance to adjacent properties because of
inappropriate or inadequate sanitation and/or drainage facilities;
         (e)   Whether the proposed development produces excessive demands on
available fire and police protection or other community services; and
         (f)   Whether the traffic characteristics of the proposed development
may create a hazard or place an excessive burden on adjacent public roads or
pedestrian facilities.
      (7)   All manufactured home parks shall be designed and developed in
accordance with the requirements of the regulations of the State of Michigan,
and the following.
         (a)   Minimum site size for a manufactured home park shall be ten
acres.
         (b)   A minimum of 50 manufactured home sites shall be provided in the
manufactured home park.
         (c)   Each manufactured home park site shall have direct access to an
arterial or collector street, as defined by the County Road Commission or the
Master Plan.
         (d)   No access to the site shall be located closer than 200 feet from
the centerline of the intersection of any arterial street.
         (e)   Minimum street pavement widths within the manufactured home park
shall be in accordance with the following schedule.
 
Parking Permitted                      Direction Minimum Street Pavement Width
No on-street parking                   One-way   14 feet
                                       Two-way   20 feet
Parallel parking on one side of street One-way   20 feet
                                       Two-way   30 feet
Parallel parking on both sides of      One-way   26 feet
street                                 Two-way   36 feet
 
         (f)   All streets within the manufactured home park shall be of
bituminous aggregate or similar surface, meeting County Road Commission
construction specifications. Curbing shall also be provided. Lighting shall be
provided by proper posts or overhead lamps to provide adequate lighting for all
streets within the manufactured home park.
         (g)   Each lot shall front on sidewalks at least five feet in width,
located directly next to and parallel to the street.
         (h)   No more than one manufactured home shall be parked on any one
lot, and no manufactured home shall be occupied by more than one family.
         (i)   The front, rear, and side yards of every lot shall be landscaped
with grass and properly maintained thereafter. At least one shade tree shall be
provided for every two lots. Trees shall be located to provide shade for
manufactured home park sites.
         (j)   Setback/buffers.
            1.   The nearest building of the manufactured home park shall be
set back a minimum of 100 feet from the right-of-way of any adjacent public
street. This setback shall be properly landscaped with grass and maintained by
the owner and/or operator of the manufactured home park.
            2.   The manufactured home park shall provide a minimum of a 50-
foot buffer strip separating the manufactured home park from adjacent property.
This strip shall be landscaped with trees or shrubbery planted in such a manner
as to provide a screen at least five feet in height. No part of this strip
shall be used for any structure, right-of-way, drive, or parking space.
            3.   The setback area and buffer strip shall be maintained by the
owner and/or operator of the manufactured home park.
         (k)   The following requirements shall be met for each lot.
Manufactured Home Park Lot Requirements
Manufactured Home Park Lot Requirements
Minimum lot area        6,500 square feet
Minimum lot width       50 feet
Maximum building height 1 story or 25 feet, whichever is higher
Required parking spaces 2 spaces               Must be off-street and paved
        Front           20 feet, measured from
                        inside the sidewalk    Includes any part of any
        Side Entry      10 feet                manufactured home and/or
             Non-entry  5 feet                 structure permanently or
                                               temporarily attached thereto
Setback                                        (excluding hitch), or used in
                                               conjunction therewith,
        Rear            10 feet                including, but not limited
                                               to, storage sheds, cabanas,
                                               and porches
 
      (8)   The following utility standards shall apply to all manufactured
home parks.
         (a)   All utilities shall be underground.
         (b)   All lots shall be served by an approved water and sanitary sewer
service system, as determined by the County Health Department, and all
manufactured homes shall be connected thereto. All expense of installation and
connection shall be borne by the owner or operator of the manufactured home
park.
         (c)   The manufactured home park shall provide sufficient storm sewer
facilities, independent of sanitary sewers, to prevent flooding of either
streets or lots. On-site storm water detention or retention may be required
where deemed necessary by the Township Engineer. All storm drainage and surface
drainage facilities shall be approved by the County Drain Commission.
      (9)   Manufactured home standards.
         (a)   All manufactured homes within the manufactured home park shall
be set up in accordance with the State of Michigan Manufactured Home Commission
rules and regulations applicable to manufactured home pad design and set up.
         (b)   All manufactured homes shall have a minimum width of 14 feet
across any horizontal surface, exclusive of carports or overhangs.
      (10)   Recreation and shelter facilities. The manufactured home park
shall contain one or more recreation and common playground areas intended
primarily for the use of the residents of the manufactured home park residents.
A minimum of 250 square feet for every manufactured home park lot shall be
provided. Buffer strip areas shall not be counted toward this requirement.
      (11)   Inspection and permits.
         (a)   The Building Inspector or such other person designated by the
Township Board shall inspect the manufactured home park at least once each
year. The fee for such inspection shall be determined by the Township Board.
         (b)   In the event that the Building Inspector or such other
designated person find that the condition of the manufactured home park is such
that it does not comply with the safeguards and conditions as set out in this
section, he or she shall serve written notice upon the owner or operator of
such manufactured home park of such defects. The notice shall include a demand
that such defects or deficiencies be corrected within 30 days of receipt of the
notice.
         (c)   In the event that the owner or operator of the manufactured home
park does not correct the deficiencies within the 30-day period, either the
owner or operator of the manufactured home park or the Building Inspector may
request that the Township Board set a date for a public hearing on the defects
or deficiencies. The hearing shall be held by the Township Board, provided that
the notice is given to the owner and operator of the manufactured home park,
and that such notice is posted in three prominent places within the
manufactured home park at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (d)   At the date of the hearing, the Township Board may amend or
modify the terms of the original notice, or if the modifications thereof shall
not be corrected within the 30 days allowed for corrections to be made, or any
extension thereof, the township, in order to preserve the health and welfare of
the residents of the township and the value of the properties of the residents
within the manufactured home park, and to prevent the manufactured home park
from becoming a public nuisance, may enter upon the manufactured home park and
correct the defects and/or deficiencies or may revoke the approval for the
manufactured home park and order it closed.
      (12)   Manufactured home sales.
         (a)   No person desiring to rent a dwelling unit site shall be
required, as a condition of such rental, to purchase a manufactured home from
the owner or operator of the manufactured home park as long as the manufactured
home intended to be located on such site conforms in size, style, shape, price,
or other such requirements as may be required by any reasonable manufactured
home park rules and regulations.
         (b)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed as prohibiting
the sale of a manufactured home located on a manufactured home lot by the
individual owner or his or her agent, or those home occupants as permitted in
this chapter, provided that a manufactured home sales lot shall not be
permitted in conjunction with any manufactured home park.
      (13)   All persons, including but not limited to township officials or
police officers, whose entry upon the manufactured home park property is
necessary, proper, or advisable in the execution of their governmental duties,
or to the execution of work authorized by a governmental body, or for the
preservation of the peace, shall have the right to enter upon and inspect the
manufactured home park at all reasonable times. (See M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2307 and
125.2317)
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.083  C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This District is intended to accommodate uses
which can provide office, personal services, and commercial goods for visitors
to and residents of the township, including auto-related uses which would
ordinarily be incompatible with the character of residential districts. It is
intended to serve primarily traffic along major county roadways and to contain
uses which require access to and frontage on such roadways.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the C District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations: executive,
administrative, professional, accounting, drafting, and medical and dental
offices and clinics;
      (2)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, including
those with drive-through facilities;
      (3)   Personal service establishments conducting services on the
premises, including barber and dry-cleaning service outlets, beauty shops,
fitness centers, and travel agencies;
      (4)   Retail stores, providing goods within a completely enclosed
building;
      (5)   Drug stores and pharmacies;
      (6)   Restaurants, exclusive of drive-through facilities;
      (7)   Private clubs, fraternal organizations, and lodge halls;
      (8)   Dry-cleaning and laundry establishments performing cleaning
operations on the premises, including retail/service operations;
      (9)   Indoor recreational facilities;
      (10)   Commercial child care centers;
      (11)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards, but
not including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems;
      (12)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses customarily incidental
to any permitted or special land use; and
      (13)   Bulk fuel storage (propane).
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the C District may be used
for the following purposes following approval by the Planning Commission as a
special land use as regulated by §§
155.130 through
155.136:
      (1)   Commercial greenhouses and nurseries;
      (2)   Commercial kennels;
      (3)   Funeral homes and mortuary establishments;
      (4)   Hotels and motels;
      (5)   Theaters, or similar places of public assembly as determined by the
Zoning Administrator;
      (6)   Restaurants with drive-through facilities;
      (7)   Vehicle service stations, with or without mechanical repair;
      (8)   Open air businesses;
      (9)   Veterinary hospitals and animal clinics;
      (10)   Commercial storage warehouses;
      (11)   Churches;
      (12)   Planned unit developments;
      (13)   Marinas;
      (14)   Light industrial processing;
      (15)   Vehicle sales; and
      (16)   Body shops.
   (D)   District regulations. No building or structure, nor the enlargement of
any building or structure, shall be thereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building,
structure, or enlargement.
      (1)   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited in
the required front yard. Goods or materials stored in the side or rear yard
shall be screened from the view from the street or from abutting properties.
 
Building height   35 feet
Front yard        75 feet
Lot coverage      40%
Minimum lot area  1 acre
Minimum lot width 150 feet
Rear yard         30 feet
Side yard         30 feet on each side
 
      (2)   A maximum of one driveway per street shall be permitted per
principal use, or collective principal use, as defined in §
155.022.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may permit additional driveways, if
justified by a traffic study provided by the applicant or owner indicating the
need for such additional driveways.
      (4)   Parking lots and driveways providing access to corner lots shall be
required to gain sole access from the lesser traveled of the two intersecting
streets. For the purposes of this division (D)(4), LESSER TRAVELED shall mean
the street having the lowest daily traffic volume, or as may be determined by
the Planning Commission where traffic count information is not available or was
counted more than two years prior to the date of the application submission.
   (E)   Site plan review. See §§
155.095 through
155.101.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading/signs. See §§
155.115 through
155.118 and
Chapter 153.
(Ord. 03-02, passed 7-2-2003; Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 8- -2005; Ord. 19-
17, passed 6-12-2019)
§ 155.084  IND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Description and purpose. This District is intended to accommodate
wholesale, warehousing, light manufacturing, storage, and other industrial-
related uses which have minimum potential impact on surrounding property.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Land and/or buildings in the IND District may be used
for the following purposes as permitted uses:
      (1)   Research and development facilities, including production
activities;
      (2)   Wholesale establishments;
      (3)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, warehousing,
or treatment of such products as foodstuffs (excepting slaughterhouses or other
similar uses), cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, pottery or other ceramic products,
musical instruments, toys, furniture, molded rubber products, electrical
appliances, electronic instruments, signs, light sheet metal products,
hardware, tool, dye, gauge, and machine shops, excluding stamping operations;
      (4)   Laboratories (experimental, film, or testing);
      (5)   Dry-cleaning and laundry establishments performing cleaning
operations on the premises, excluding retail/service operations;
      (6)   Utility and public service buildings, including storage yards, but
not including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems;
      (7)   Contractor’s showrooms and storage yards;
      (8)   Body shops; and
      (9)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses.
   (C)   Special land uses. Land and/or buildings in the IND District shall be
used for the following purposes when approved by the Planning Commission in
accordance with the requirements of §§
155.130 through
155.136:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses;
      (2)   Lumber and planing mills;
      (3)   Metal plating, buffing, and polishing;
      (4)   Commercial storage warehouses;
      (5)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment
of products requiring stamping or punch press operations; and
      (6)   Junk yards, salvage, or impound yards.
   (D)   District regulations. No building or structure, nor the enlargement of
any building or structure, shall be thereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building,
structure, or enlargement.
      (1)   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be screened from
the view from the street or from abutting properties.
      (2)   All industrial activities shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building, except for loading and unloading operations and
on-site parking of vehicles.
Building height   40 feet
Front yard        100 feet
Lot coverage      50%
Minimum lot area  2 acres
Minimum lot width 200 feet
Rear yard         Abutting AR, R-1, R-2, or MHP lot - 100 feet
                  Abutting other districts - 50 feet
Side yard         Side abutting AR, R-1, R-2, or MHP lot - 75 feet
                  Side abutting other districts - 50 feet
 
   (E)   Site plan review. See §§
155.095 through
155.101.
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading/signs. See §§
155.115 through
155.118 and
Chapter 153.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 155.095  PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to provide for consultation and cooperation
between the applicant and the Township Planning Commission in order that the
objectives of the applicant may be accomplished in the utilization of the land
which is the subject of the site plan within the regulations of this chapter
and with minimum adverse effect on the use of adjacent streets and highways,
and on existing and future uses and environment in the immediate area and
vicinity.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.096  SITE PLANS REVIEWED.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning compliance permit
for any principal use until a site plan has been reviewed and approved by the
Planning Commission under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Site condominiums;
      (2)   Special land uses in any district; and
      (3)   Expansions, alterations, and additions to permitted uses and
special land uses allowed by this chapter, unless otherwise accepted in
division (A) above.
   (B)   As otherwise might be required in this chapter.
   (C)   All plans not reviewed by the Planning Commission shall be approved by
the Zoning Administrator, who shall ensure that the site plan is in conformance
with this chapter.
   (D)   Review of a site plan for open space developments, planned unit
developments, and private roads is also required in accordance with the
procedures noted in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.097  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An application for site plan review, plus either a preliminary or
final site plan (nine copies), shall be submitted at least 15 days prior to the
next Planning Commission meeting through the Zoning Administrator who will
review the application and plans for completeness, then transmit them to the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   An application for site plan review shall consist of the following:
      (1)   Nine copies of the preliminary or final site plan;
      (2)   A completed application form, as provided by the township;
      (3)   Payment of a fee in accordance with a fee schedule, as determined
by the Township Board from time to time;
      (4)   A legal description of the entire property which is the subject of
the site plan review; and
      (5)   Other materials as may be required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.098  PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   A preliminary site plan (nine copies) may be submitted for review by
the Planning Commission prior to final site plan submittal. The purpose of such
procedure is to allow discussion between the applicant and the Planning
Commission, to better inform the applicant of the acceptability of the proposed
plans prior to incurring extensive engineering and other costs which might be
necessary for final site plan approval.
   (B)   Preliminary site plans shall include the following, unless deemed
unnecessary by the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Small scale sketch of properties, streets, and use of land within
one-half mile of the area;
      (2)   A site plan at a scale of not more than one inch equals 100 feet
showing all existing or proposed arrangement of:
         (a)   Existing adjacent streets and proposed streets;
         (b)   Lots;
         (c)   Parking lots and access points;
         (d)   Proposed buffer strips or screening;
         (e)   Natural characteristics including, but not limited to, open
space, stands of trees, brooks, ponds, floodplains, hills, and similar natural
assets both on the subject property and within 100 feet of the property lines;
         (f)   Location of any signs not attached to the building;
         (g)   Existing and proposed buildings; and
         (h)   General topographical features including contour intervals no
greater than ten feet.
      (3)   A narrative describing:
         (a)   The overall objectives of the proposed development;
         (b)   Number of acres allocated to each proposed use and gross area in
building, structures, parking, public and/or private streets and drives, and
open space;
         (c)   Dwelling unit densities by type, if applicable;
         (d)   Proposed method of providing sewer and water service, as well as
other public and private utilities; and
         (e)   Proposed method of providing storm drainage.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary site plan and
make such recommendations to the applicant that will likely cause the plan to
be in conformance with the review standards required by §
155.100
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.099  FINAL SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall approve, deny, or approve with
conditions the final site plan based on the purposes, objectives, and
requirements of this chapter and specifically the considerations listed in §
155.100.
   (B)   The site plan shall include the following information, unless deemed
unnecessary by the Zoning Administrator, for Planning Commission review:
      (1)   Legal description of the property;
      (2)   Small scale sketch of properties, streets, and use of land within
one-half mile of the area;
      (3)   A narrative describing the items indicated in §
155.098(B)(3); and
      (4)   Nine copies of a site plan at a scale not to exceed one inch equals
100 feet. The following items shall be shown on the plan:
         (a)   Date of preparation/revision;
         (b)   Name and address of the preparer;
         (c)   The topography of the site at a minimum of five foot intervals
and its relationship to adjoining land;
         (d)   Existing human-made features;
         (e)   Dimensions of setbacks, locations, heights, and size of
buildings and structures;
         (f)   Street rights-of-way, indicating proposed access routes,
internal circulations, and relationship to existing rights-of-way. All
driveways or access points within 100 feet of the property lines of the subject
property shall also be shown;
         (g)   Proposed grading;
         (h)   Natural characteristics including, but not limited to, open
space, stands of trees, brooks, ponds, floodplains, hills, and similar natural
assets both on the subject property and within 100 feet of the property lines;
         (i)   Location and type of drainage, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
and other utilities;
         (j)   Location and type of fences, landscaping, buffer strips, and
screening;
         (k)   Location and type of signs and on-site lighting;
         (l)   Proposed parking areas and drives. Parking areas shall be
designated by lines showing individual spaces and shall conform with the
provisions of §§
155.117 and
155.118;
         (m)   Easements, if any; and
         (n)   Dimensions and number of proposed lots.
   (C)   The Planning Commission, prior to granting approval of a site plan,
may request from the applicant any additional graphics or written materials,
prepared by a qualified person or person(s) to assist in determining the
appropriateness of the site plan. Such material may include, but need not be
limited to, aerial photography, photographs; traffic impacts; impact on
significant natural features and drainage; soil tests; and other pertinent
information.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.100  SITE PLAN REVIEW STANDARDS.
   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary and final site plans
and approve, approve with conditions, or deny the site plan based on the
purposes, objectives, and requirements of this chapter, and specifically, the
following considerations when applicable:
   (A)   The uses proposed will not harm the public health, safety, or welfare.
All elements of the site plan shall be designed to take into account the site’s
topography, the size and type of plot, the character of adjoining property and
the type and size of buildings. The site shall be developed so as not to impede
the normal and orderly development or improvement of surrounding property for
uses permitted in this chapter;
   (B)   Safe, convenient, uncongested, and well-defined vehicular and
pedestrian circulation within and to the site shall be provided. Drives,
streets, and other elements shall be designed to promote safe and efficient
traffic operations within the site and at its access points;
   (C)   The arrangement of public or common ways for vehicular and pedestrian
circulation shall be connected to existing or planned streets in the area;
   (D)   The landscape shall be preserved in its natural state, insofar as
practical, by removing only those areas of vegetation or making those
alterations to the topography which are reasonably necessary to develop the
site in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The Planning
Commission may require that landscaping, buffers, and/or greenbelts be
preserved and/or provided to ensure that proposed uses will be adequately
buffered from one another and from surrounding public and private property;
   (E)   Appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure that removal of surface
waters will not adversely affect neighboring properties or nearby bodies of
water. Provisions shall be made to accommodate stormwater, prevent erosion and
the formation of dust. The use of detention/retention ponds may be required.
Surface water on all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so that it
will not obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or create
standing water;
   (F)   All buildings or groups of buildings shall be arranged so as to permit
necessary emergency vehicle access as required by the Fire Department and
Sheriff’s Department;
   (G)   All off-street parking, loading and unloading areas, and outside
storage areas, including refuse storage stations, shall be screened from the
view of the street and/or adjacent properties;
   (H)   Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is deflected away from
adjacent properties and so that it does not impede the vision of traffic along
adjacent streets. Flashing or intermittent lights shall not be permitted; and
   (I)   The general purposes and spirit of this chapter and the Master Plan of
the township.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.101  APPROVED SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Upon approval of the preliminary or final site plan, the Chairperson
or Secretary of the Planning Commission shall sign and date three copies
thereof. One signed copy shall be made a part of the Commission’s files; one
shall be forwarded to the Building Inspector for issuance of a building permit;
and one copy shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Time limits on site plans.
      (1)   Each development shall be substantially under construction within
one year after the date of approval of the final site plan by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may grant one six-month extension, provided
the applicant applies in writing for the extension prior to the date of the
expiration of the final site plan.
      (3)   The extension shall be approved if the applicant presents
reasonable evidence to the effect that the development has encountered
unforeseen difficulties beyond the control of the applicant, but is then ready
to proceed.
      (4)   Should neither of the aforementioned provisions be fulfilled or a
six-month extension has expired without construction underway, the final site
plan approval shall be null and void.
   (C)   Amendments to an approved site plan may occur only under the following
circumstances.
      (1)   The holder of a valid site plan shall notify the Zoning
Administrator of any proposed amendment to such approved site plan.
      (2)   Minor changes may be approved by the Zoning Administrator upon
certification in writing to the Planning Commission that the proposed revision
does not alter the basic design nor any specified conditions of the plan as
agreed upon by the Planning Commission. In considering this determination, the
Zoning Administrator shall permit the following to be a minor change:
         (a)   Reduction of the size of any building and/or sign;
         (b)   Movement of buildings and/or signs by no more than ten feet;
         (c)   Plantings approved in the site plan landscape plan may be
replaced by similar types of landscaping on a one-to-one or greater basis;
         (d)   Changes of building materials to a higher quality, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator;
         (e)   Changes in floor plans which do not alter the character of the
use;
         (f)   Internal rearrangement of a parking lot which does not affect
the number of parking spaces or alter access locations or design; and/or
         (g)   Changes required or requested by the township for safety reasons
shall be considered a minor change.
      (3)   Should the Zoning Administrator determine that the requested
modification to the approved site plan is not minor, resubmission to the
Planning Commission for an amendment shall be required and conducted in the
same manner as an original application.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
PARKING
§ 155.115  PARKING, GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, off-street parking
shall not be located within the required front yard.
   (B)   Off-street parking for all non-residential districts and uses shall be
either on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building or use it is intended
to serve, measured from the nearest public entrance of the building to the
nearest point of the off-street parking lot.
   (C)   The storage of merchandise or products, motor vehicles displayed for
sale, or the repair of vehicles is prohibited in any off-street parking lot.
   (D)   Residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of parking strip,
parking bay, driveway, garage, or combination thereof and shall be located on
the premises they are intended to serve. Parking spaces shall be constructed
with an asphalt or portland cement binder, graveled, or compacted earth so as
to provide a durable and dustless surface, and shall occupy no greater than 33%
of the required front yard.
   (E)   Minimum required off-street parking spaces shall not be replaced by
any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided elsewhere, in
compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter, or
amendment thereto, in connection with the operation of an existing building or
use, shall not be reduced to an amount less than required for a similar new
building or new use.
   (G)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking.
   (H)   The Planning Commission may defer construction of the required number
of parking spaces if the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Areas proposed for deferred parking shall be shown on the site plan
and shall be sufficient for construction of the required number of parking
spaces, in accordance with the standards of this chapter for parking area
design and other site development requirements.
      (2)   Alterations to the deferred parking area may be initiated by the
owner or required by the Zoning Administrator, and shall require the approval
by the Zoning Administrator of an amended site plan submitted by the applicant,
accompanied by evidence documenting the justification for the alteration.
   (I)   Overnight parking of semi-truck tractors and trailers and commercial
vehicles exceeding one and one-half tons shall be prohibited in any residential
district.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.116  PARKING LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum dimensions of parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall be
in accordance with the following requirements.
 
Parking Pattern    Two-Way Aisle One-Way Aisle Parking Space Parking Space
                   Width         Width         Width         Length
Parallel parking   18 feet       12 feet       9 feet        25 feet
30-75 degree angle 24 feet       12 feet       9 feet        21 feet
76-90 degree angle 26 feet       15 feet       9 feet        18 feet
 
   (B)   Minor adjustments of the dimensions prescribed in this section may be
authorized by the Zoning Administrator if consistent with generally recognized
design standards for off-street parking facilities.
   (C)   All parking lots shall be paved or provided with permeable, durable,
and dustless surface and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water.
   (D)   All parking lots shall be constructed so as to permit proper drainage
and prevent puddling or storage of water within the lot. Drainage shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the township and the County Drain
Commissioner.
   (E)   All parking lots shall be provided with adequate lighting. Parking lot
lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent light from spilling onto adjacent
residential districts or uses.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.117  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required off-street parking spaces are noted in the table below for
the uses listed. For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements
for off-street parking shall be in accord with a use which the Planning
Commission or Zoning Administrator considers similar in type.
   (B)   When units of measurement determining the number of required off-
street parking spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, that
fraction shall require one parking space.
   (C)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be determined in
accordance with the following table.
Use Parking Space per Unit of Measurement
Use                                     Parking Space per Unit of Measurement
Residential
Single-family dwellings                 2 for each dwelling unit
Residential
Two-family dwellings                    2 for each dwelling unit
Multiple-family dwellings               2 for each dwelling unit plus 1
                                        additional space for each 2 units
                                        1 space for each 2 dwelling units, plus
Housing for the elderly                 1 for each employee, plus 1 space for
                                        each 5 dwelling units to be marked as
                                        visitor spaces
Institutional
Group day care homes and group state    1 space for each 4 clients, plus 1
licensed care homes                     space for each employee
                                        1 space for each 4 seats or each 8 feet
                                        of pew length or 1 space for and each 3
Churches, theaters, assembly areas,     persons allowed within the maximum
auditoriums, gymnasiums                 occupancy load established by any
                                        applicable codes or ordinances,
                                        whichever is greater
                                        2 spaces for each 3 employees, plus
Private schools, elementary and middle  amount required for auditorium or
                                        gymnasium seating
                                        1 space for each 8 students, plus 1.5
Private schools, secondary and          spaces for each classroom, plus amount
institutions of higher learning         required for auditorium or gymnasium
                                        seating
Commercial
Vehicle wash (self service)             1 space for each 5 stalls
Vehicle wash (automatic)                1 space per each employee
Beauty/barber shop                      3 spaces for each chair
Bowling alleys                          4 spaces for each bowling lane plus
                                        required spaces for each accessory use
                                        1 space for each 3 persons allowed
Assembly halls without fixed seats      within the maximum occupancy load
                                        established by any applicable codes or
                                        ordinances
                                        1 space for each 100 square feet of UFA
Restaurants without drive-through       or 1 space for each 2 persons allowed
facilities                              within the maximum occupancy load
                                        established by any applicable codes or
                                        ordinances, whichever is greater
                                        1 space for each 100 square feet of UFA
Restaurants with drive-through          or 1 space for each VA persons allowed
facilities                              within the maximum occupancy load
                                        established by any applicable codes or
                                        ordinances, whichever is greater
Commercial
                                        1 space for each service stall, plus 1
                                        space for each pump island, plus 1
Vehicle service stations                space for each maximum number of
                                        employees on the premises at any one
                                        time
Personal service establishments         1 space for each 50 square feet of UFA
Retail furniture, appliance and         1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
household goods                         UFA
Funeral homes and mortuary              1 space for each 50 square feet of UFA
establishments
                                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
Open air businesses                     indoor UFA plus 1 space for each 1,000
                                        square feet of outdoor display area
Retail stores not otherwise specified   1 space for each 200 square feet of UFA
                                        50% of the total area devoted to the
                                        launch site shall be devoted to
Boat launch sites                       parking, in accordance with the
                                        requirements of section 13.02
                                         
                                        114 spaces per boat slip or rack
Marinas                                 storage bin, plus required spaces for
                                        any accessory uses
Hotels and motels                       1 space for each guest room, plus
                                        required spaces for any accessory uses
                                        1 space for each 100 square feet of UFA
Video rental stores                     plus 1 space for the maximum number of
                                        employees on the premises at any one
                                        time
Offices
Banks, credit unions, savings and loan  1 space for each 150 square feet of UFA
associations, and other similar uses    plus 3 spaces for each non-drive
                                        through automatic teller machine
Offices not otherwise specified         1 space for each 300 square feet of UFA
                                        1 space for each 75 square feet of
Medical and dental offices and clinics  waiting room area, plus 1 space for
                                        each examining room, dental chair, or
                                        similar use area
Industrial
                                        1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
Manufacturing, processing, and research gross floor area, plus those spaces
establishments                          required for offices located on the
                                        premises
Industrial
                                        1 space for each 2,000 square feet of
Warehouses and wholesale establishments gross floor area, plus those spaces
                                        required for offices located on the
                                        premises
 
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
Cross reference:
   Usable floor area, see §
155.006
§ 155.118  OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building or structure involving the
receipt or distribution of vehicles, materials, or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing, loading, and
unloading. This space shall be placed so as to avoid undue interference with
public use of dedicated rights-of-way and parking areas.
   (B)   All loading spaces shall be located in the rear yard in the ratio of
at least ten square feet per front foot of building and shall be computed
separately from off-street parking requirements.
   (C)   Loading spaces for non-residential uses in residential districts shall
be located in the rear yard in the ratio of at least five square feet per front
foot of building and shall be computed separately from off-street parking
requirements.
   (D)   IND District.
      (1)   In the IND District, at least one loading space shall be provided.
All loading spaces shall be at least ten feet by 50 feet, or a minimum of 500
square feet in area. A minimum 14-foot clearance height shall be provided.
      (2)   Loading spaces shall only be permitted off-street and in the rear
yard or interior side yard.
   (E)   All dedicated loading spaces shall be provided with a pavement having
an asphalt or portland cement binder so as to provide a permanent, durable, and
dustless service.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
SPECIAL LAND USES
§ 155.130  PURPOSE.
   Special land uses are those uses of land which are not essentially
incompatible with uses permitted in a district, but possess characteristics or
location qualities which require individual review and discretion in order to
avoid incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area, public
services and facilities, and adjacent uses of land. The purpose of this
subchapter is to establish equitable procedures and criteria which shall be
applied in the determination of requests to establish special land uses. The
criteria for decision and requirements provided for under the provisions of the
subchapter shall be in addition to those required elsewhere in this chapter
which are applicable to the special land use under consideration.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.131  APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application. An application for permission to establish a special land
use shall be submitted in accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Applications for a special land use shall be submitted at least 30
days prior to the next Planning Commission meeting through the Zoning
Administrator who will review the application for completeness, then transmit
it to the Planning Commission. Applications not meeting the requirements shall
be returned to the applicant for completion.
      (2)   An application for a special land use approval shall consist of the
following:
         (a)   Nine copies of a final site plan meeting the requirements of §
155.099(B);
         (b)   A completed application form, as provided by the township;
         (c)   Payment of a fee in accordance with a fee schedule, as
determined by the Township Board from time to time;
         (d)   A legal description of the entire property which is the subject
of the special land use;
         (e)   A statement with regard to compliance with the criteria required
for approval in §§
155.132 and
155.133, and other criteria imposed by this chapter affecting the special land
use under consideration; and
         (f)   Other materials as may be required by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a special land use, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing for the purpose of receiving comments
relative to the special land use application.
      (2)   Notice of the public hearing shall be as required by the township’s
Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
      (3)   Upon the approval or approval with conditions by the Planning
Commission, the applicant may apply for a building permit.
      (4)   If denied, the Planning Commission, in its minutes, shall state the
reasons for such denial and provide the applicant with a copy.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall videotape all of its public hearing
meetings and provide a copy of the tape to any person paying the fee for
copying. A transcription of the tape by certified court reporter shall be
required for any appeal to circuit court. A copy of said transcription shall be
provided to the township at no cost.
      (6)   If, during the course of a public hearing, expert testimony is
required for the Planning Commission to make a decision, and the applicant has
not provided expert evidence on the matter, the Planning Commission can require
the applicant to hire an expert, approved by the Commission, at a continued
public hearing before making its decision.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.132  BASIS OF DETERMINATION.
   Prior to approval of a special land use application, the Planning Commission
shall ensure that the standards specified in this section, as well as other
applicable standards of this chapter, are satisfied by the completion and
operation of the special land use under consideration.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the particular circumstances of
the application under consideration in terms of the following standards, and
shall approve a special land use only upon a finding of compliance with each of
the following standards.
      (1)   The special land use shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained in a manner harmonious with the character of adjacent property and
the surrounding area.
      (2)   The special land use shall not change the essential character of
the surrounding area.
      (3)   The special land use shall not be hazardous to adjacent property,
or involve uses, activities, materials, or equipment which will be detrimental
to the health, safety, or welfare of persons or property through the creation
of hazardous or potentially hazardous situations or the excessive production of
traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, or glare.
      (4)   The special land use shall not place demands on public services and
facilities in excess of current capacity.
   (B)   The Planning Commission and/or Township Board may require the
submission of a reasonable review fee which the township may use to pay for the
services of a qualified attorney, engineer, planner, inspector, or other
individual which the Planning Commission and/or Township Board deems necessary.
Said fees shall only be used for the review of any proposal covered under the
terms of this chapter. All such fees shall be held in escrow and any unused
fees shall be returned to the applicant.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may impose conditions with the approval of a
special land use which are necessary to ensure compliance with the standards
for approval stated in this section and any other applicable standards
contained in this chapter. Such conditions shall be considered an integral part
of the special land use application and shall be enforced by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   If, after the establishment of the special land use, the approved use
is found not to be in compliance with the approval granted by the Planning
Commission, said use shall have 60 days to correct any problems as determined
by the Planning Commission. If infractions are not corrected within the 60
days, the provisions of §
155.134 shall be initiated.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.133  APPROVAL TERM AND EXPIRATION.
   (A)   A special land use approval shall be valid for one year from the date
of approval, unless approval is revoked as provided in §
155.134, or the special land use has been initiated, or construction necessary
for such use has been initiated and is proceeding meaningfully toward
completion, in which case the approval shall remain valid indefinitely, unless
the use is abandoned or discontinued for six consecutive months.
   (B)   If, by the end of this one-year period, the special land use has not
been initiated or construction necessary for such use has not been initiated
or, if construction has been initiated but is not proceeding meaningfully
toward completion, then the special land use shall be deemed expired and no
longer valid.
   (C)   A special land use approval, including conditions imposed, is attached
to and shall run with the land for which the approval is granted, and shall be
binding upon subsequent owners and all occupants of the subject land.
   (D)   Application for approval of an expired special land use approval shall
be considered as a new application.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.134  REVOCATION OF SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL.
   The Planning Commission may revoke any special land use approval, or take
any other action allowed by law, if the applicant fails to comply with any of
the applicable requirements in this chapter, any conditions placed on the
approval by the Planning Commission, or any other applicable provisions of this
chapter. Prior to revoking a special land use approval, the Planning Commission
shall conduct a public hearing and give notice of such hearing in accordance
with the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.135  EXISTING SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Uses of land and/or development projects granted special exception status by
the township prior to the adoption of this chapter may continue this status
provided the rules, regulations, requirements, and conditions of the special
exception are met.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.136  RESUBMISSION.
   (A)   No special land use request, or substantially similar request, which
has been decided by the Planning Commission shall be submitted for
reconsideration within a one-year period from the date of the original
application.
   (B)   After the one-year period, the application will only be considered if
the applicant first demonstrated the following:
      (1)   The conditions involving all of the reasons for the original denial
have been significantly altered; or
      (2)   New conditions or circumstances exist which change the nature of
the original request.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
SPECIFIC SPECIAL LAND USE STANDARDS
§ 155.150  SPECIAL LAND USES.
   (A)   The following special land uses shall be subject to the requirements
of the district in which it is located, in addition to all the applicable
conditions, standards, and regulations as are cited in this section.
   (B)   The following uses have such conditions, standards, or regulations:
      (1)   Country clubs, golf courses, riding stables, gun clubs, and
publicly owned athletic grounds and parks including related uses, such as snack
bars, small retail shops selling goods directly related to the primary use, and
other similar uses integral to the main use;
      (2)   Removal and processing of topsoil, stone, rock, sand, gravel, lime,
or other soil or mineral resource;
      (3)   Public or private campgrounds;
      (4)   Two-family dwellings;
      (5)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (6)   Planned unit developments;
      (7)   Funeral homes and mortuary establishments;
      (8)   Group and commercial day care homes and facilities;
      (9)   Hotels and motels;
      (10)   Theaters, or similar places of public assembly, as determined by
the Zoning Administrator;
      (11)   Restaurants with drive-through facilities;
      (12)   Vehicle service stations, with or without mechanical repair;
      (13)   Vehicle wash establishments, either self-serve or automatic;
      (14)   Open air businesses and food truck park;
      (15)   Veterinary hospitals, animal clinics, and commercial kennels;
      (16)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards, but
not including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems;
      (17)   Body shops;
      (18)   Lumber and plane mills;
      (19)   Metal plating, buffing, and polishing;
      (20)   Commercial storage warehouses;
      (21)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment
of products requiring stamping or punch press operations;
      (22)   Junk yard, salvage yards and impound yards;
      (23)   Public or private boat launches;
      (24)   Marinas;
      (25)   Sexually oriented businesses;
      (26)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (27)   Private schools, churches, libraries, parks, playgrounds, and
community center buildings;
      (28)   Intensive livestock operations;
      (29)   Open space developments;
      (30)   Vehicle sales;
      (31)   Private hunting facilities;
      (32)   Private docks accessory to non-residential uses;
      (33)   Private dock on vacant residential parcel; and
      (34)   Rental halls.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 6- -2005; amended 3- -2013; Ord. 17-06, passed
9-13-2017; Ord. 19-20, passed 8-6-2019)
§ 155.151  RECREATION GROUNDS.
   Country clubs, golf courses, riding stables, and publicly owned athletic
grounds and parks including related uses, such as snack bars, small retail
shops selling goods directly related to the primary use, and other similar uses
integral to the main use.
   (A)   The use shall be located on property with direct access to a public
street.
   (B)   Any outdoor activity areas shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from
any residential district or use property line.
   (C)   Lighting for parking areas or outdoor activity areas shall be shielded
to prevent light from spilling onto any residential district or use property
line.
   (D)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.152  REMOVAL OF RESOURCES.
   The Planning Commission shall not approve such use until the following
information is provided and the Commission finds that the proposed use will not
adversely impact surrounding properties and the township in general, in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   The size of the property from which such topsoil, sand, gravel, or
other such materials are to be removed;
   (B)   The amount of topsoil, sand, gravel, or other materials which is to be
removed;
   (C)   The purpose of such removal;
   (D)   The effect of such removal on adjoining property; all removal
activities shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any adjoining
residential district;
   (E)   The effect of such removal in causing a safety hazard, creating
erosion problems, or altering the ground water table;
   (F)   The potential for such removal to cause the creation of sand blows,
stagnant water pools, or swampy areas;
   (G)   The effect of such removal on the environment and the natural
topography, and the potential destruction of any natural resources;
   (H)   Potential traffic congestion and problems because of trucks or other
vehicles or means utilized to haul and transport the material removed;
   (I)   Any change of the natural contour of the land, both during mining
operations and at the time of abandonment, shall be maintained in a safe
condition; all contours and elevations shall be restored when the operation is
abandoned or ceases;
   (J)   No business or industrial building or structure of a permanent nature
shall be erected, except where such building is a permitted use within the
district in which the extraction activity is located;
   (K)   No storage or truck parking shall be located within 200 feet of any
adjacent residence or within 50 feet of any other adjacent property;
   (L)   All of the operations shall be screened with an evergreen screen
planting on any side adjacent to a residential district or use of occupied
property;
   (M)   As the natural resources are being removed, the property shall be
restored by the placement of topsoil where feasible; and all excavations shall
be sloped to a gradient with not more than 30 degree slope and the contour be
caused to blend as nearly as possible with the natural surroundings;
   (N)   All truck operations shall be directed away from residential streets
and utilized county primary roads whenever possible;
   (O)   The Planning Commission may require such performance guarantee or
bond, as deemed necessary to ensure that requirements are fulfilled, in
accordance with the provisions of section 19.09, and may revoke permission to
operate at any time specific conditions are not maintained;
   (P)   Topsoil or sand may be removed from a lot for the purpose of erecting
or constructing a building or structure on the lot, provided a permit is first
obtained from the Zoning Administrator. If any removal from a parcel shall
exceed 500 cubic yards of material, then the applicant shall comply with the
provisions of this section. In addition, topsoil or sand may be moved from one
part of a lot to another part if such action will not cause, or be likely to
cause, sand blows, stagnant water pools, bogs, or possible future injury to
adjoining properties;
   (Q)   The applicant shall secure all necessary permits from the township,
county, and state authorities; and
   (R)   Any change in the operation or activity conducted on the premises
shall require reapplication for a special use permit.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.153  PUBLIC OR PRIVATE CAMPGROUNDS.
   (A)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
   (B)   The applicant shall secure all necessary permits from township,
county, and state authorities.
   (C)   Minimum lot area shall be five acres.
   (D)   Retail commercial uses may be permitted within the campground,
provided that the following requirements are met:
      (1)   All commercial uses allowed shall occupy no more than 5% of the lot
for building and parking areas; and
      (2)   No merchandise for display, sale, or lease shall be located in any
manner outside the main building.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.154  TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   All dwelling units in the building shall have a minimum of 750 square
feet per unit.
   (B)   Such uses shall be permitted only if they will not materially alter
the existing character of the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.155  MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Parking areas shall have a front yard setback of 20 feet and side and
rear yard setbacks of ten feet.
   (B)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
   (C)   Buildings shall not be constructed closer than a distance equal to one
and one-half times the height of the tallest building.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.156  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Description and purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of a planned unit development (PUD) is to permit
greater flexibility in development than is generally possible under standard
district regulations. It is further intended to promote more efficient use of
land while providing a harmonious variety of housing choices, the integration
of necessary commercial and community facilities, and the preservation of open
space.
      (2)   These PUD provisions are not intended as a device for ignoring the
other requirements of this chapter. These provisions are intended to result in
land development substantially consistent with the underlying zoning.
   (B)   Qualifying conditions.
      (1)   The tract of land for which a PUD application is received must be
either in one ownership or the subject of an application filed jointly by the
owners of all properties.
      (2)   The property which is the subject of a PUD application must be a
minimum of ten contiguous acres in total area.
      (3)   To be considered as a PUD, the proposed development must fulfill
one of the following conditions:
         (a)   The PUD contains two or more separate and distinct uses, for
example, single-family and multiple-family dwellings;
         (b)   The PUD site exhibits significant natural features which will be
preserved as a result of the PUD plan; or
         (c)   The PUD is designed to preserve at least 75% of the total area
of the site in active agriculture or open space.
   (C)   Review procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary sketch plan.
         (a)   To be considered as a PUD, the applicant shall be required to
first receive approval of a sketch plan in accordance with the requirements of
this section.
         (b)   Applications for sketch plan approval for PUDs shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days prior to the date of
first consideration by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   The application materials shall include all the following
information, unless the Zoning Administrator determines that some of the
required information is not reasonably necessary:
            1.   Current proof of ownership of the land to be utilized or
evidence of a contractual ability to acquire such land, such as an option or
purchase agreement;
            2.   Written documentation that the proposal meets the standards of
section 14.08, F, 3;
            3.   If a phased development is proposed, identification of the
areas included in each phase. For residential uses, identify the number, type,
and density of proposed housing units within each phase; and
            4.   A completed application form, supplied by the Zoning
Administrator, and an application fee.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall either deny, approve, or approve
with conditions, the sketch plan.
         (e)   Changes in the sketch plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission pursuant to the above procedures applicable to the original
application.
      (2)   Final site plan approval.
         (a)   After receiving approval of a sketch plan from the Planning
Commission, the applicant shall within one year submit a final site plan to the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   The final site plan may be for either the entire project or for
one or more phases. Site plan approval shall be conducted in accordance with
the requirements of §
155.099.
         (c)   Failure to submit a final site plan for approval within the one-
year period shall void the previous sketch plan approval and a new application
shall be required to be submitted and approved in accordance with these
provisions.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall either deny, approve, or approve
with conditions, the final site plan.
         (e)   Changes in the final site plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission pursuant to the above procedures applicable to the original
application.
   (D)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in accordance
with the applicable PUD requirements:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (4)   Permitted uses in the C District, subject to the standards noted
for non-residential uses in the PUD; and
      (5)   Site condominiums.
   (E)   Site development requirements.
      (1)   Residential uses. The minimum lot area, width, setbacks, and yard
requirements for any lot designated for residential use may be established by
the Planning Commission, subject to the following considerations:
         (a)   Character of the neighborhood in which the development is
proposed;
         (b)   The proximity of other residential districts or uses; and
         (c)   Unique site conditions, such as the presence of drainage ways,
significant natural features, soil conditions, and the like.
      (2)   Non-residential uses.
         (a)   All non-residential uses allowed in the PUD shall occupy no more
than 10% of the PUD project’s developable area.
         (b)   All such uses shall be integrated into the design of the project
with similar architectural and site development elements, such as signs,
landscaping, and the like.
         (c)   Such uses shall be permitted only if they will not materially
alter the existing character of the neighborhood and/or the PUD.
         (d)   All merchandise for display, sale, or lease shall be entirely
within an enclosed building.
         (e)   Buildings designed for non-residential uses shall be constructed
according to the following requirements:
            1.   If the entire PUD contains fewer than 20 dwelling units, 75%
of these units must be constructed prior to construction of any non-residential
use; and
            2.   If the PUD contains more than 20 dwelling units, 50% of these
units shall be constructed prior to the construction of any non-residential
use.
      (3)   Open space. The amount of open space set aside for common use of
the PUD shall be determined by the Planning Commission, subject to the
following considerations and requirements:
         (a)   Open space areas shall be large enough and of proper dimensions
so as to constitute a useable area, with adequate access such that all
properties within the entire PUD may utilize the available open space;
         (b)   Evidence shall be given that satisfactory arrangements will be
made for the maintenance of such designated land to relieve the township of the
future maintenance thereof; and
         (c)   Open space will be provided where natural features may be
preserved and/or be used for passive or active recreation.
      (4)   Wires. All electric and telephone transmission wires shall be
placed underground.
      (5)   Parking. Parking is required in accordance with §§
155.115 through
155.118.
      (6)   Signs. Signs are permitted in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 153. The least intensive district in which the use is permitted shall
be used in determining sign requirements.
   (F)   Approval standards. The Planning Commission shall consider and find
that the standards noted below have each been satisfied before granting
approval of any PUD:
      (1)   The standards of §
155.100; and
      (2)   The standards of §
155.132(A)(1) through (A)(4).
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.157  FUNERAL HOMES AND MORTUARY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre and minimum lot width shall be 150
feet.
   (B)   An off-street vehicle assembly area shall be provided to be used in
support of funeral processions and activities. This area shall be in addition
to the required off-street parking and its related maneuvering area.
   (C)   No waiting lines of vehicles shall extend off-site or onto any public
street.
   (D)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 25 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.158  GROUP AND COMMERCIAL DAY CARE HOMES AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   A drop-off/pick-up area shall be provided for motorists off the public
street, which permits vehicles to exit the property without backing into the
street.
   (B)   Fencing no less than four feet nor more than six feet in height shall
be provided around all outdoor areas accessible to children.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.159  HOTELS AND MOTELS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be four acres and minimum lot width shall be
200 feet.
   (B)   Parking areas shall have a front yard setback of 20 feet and side and
rear yard setbacks of ten feet.
   (C)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.160  THEATERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Main buildings shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from any
residential property line.
   (B)   For uses exceeding a seating capacity of 250 persons, a traffic impact
study shall be required to be submitted by the applicant which describes
internal circulation and projected impacts on traffic operations, capacity, and
access on adjacent and nearby streets which are likely to provide access to the
site.
   (C)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.161  RESTAURANTS WITH DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.
   (A)   Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through portion of the
operation shall be provided to ensure that traffic does not extend into the
public right-of-way. A minimum of ten stacking spaces for the service ordering
station shall be provided. Stacking spaces shall be located so as not to
interfere with vehicular circulation and egress from the property by vehicles
not using the drive-through portion of the facility.
   (B)   In addition to parking space requirements, at least three parking
spaces shall be provided, in close proximity to the exit of the drive-through
portion of the operation, to allow for customers waiting for delivery of
orders.
   (C)   Parking areas shall have a front yard setback of 20 feet and side and
rear yard setbacks of ten feet.
   (D)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 25 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.162  VEHICLE SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre and minimum lot width shall be 250
feet.
   (B)   Pump islands shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any public right-of-
way or lot line.
   (C)   All equipment and activities associated with vehicle repair
operations, except those in incidental use, such as air hoses, shall be kept
within an enclosed building. Storage of vehicle components and parts, trash,
supplies, or equipment outside of a building is prohibited.
   (D)   If retail sales of convenience goods are conducted on the premises,
parking for such uses shall be computed and provided separately for that use.
   (E)   Canopy roofs shall be permitted to encroach into any required yard,
provided that a minimum setback of 15 feet is maintained and further provided
that the fascia of the canopy is a minimum of 15 feet above the average grade.
   (F)   Access driveways shall be located at least 25 feet from the centerline
of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
   (G)   Where adjoining a residential district, a solid wall or fence, six
feet in height, shall be erected along any common lot line. Such fence or wall
shall be continuously maintained in good condition.
   (H)   Adequate parking for vehicles awaiting repair shall be provided in
additional to any other required parking.
   (I)   Inoperative vehicles left on the site shall, within 48 hours, be
stored within an enclosed building, or in an area screened by an opaque fence
not less than six feet in height. Such fence shall be continuously maintained
in good condition.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.163  VEHICLE WASH ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through portion of the
operation shall be provided to ensure that traffic does not extend into the
public right-of-way. A minimum of 15 stacking spaces for an automatic wash
facility shall be provided. For self-service establishments, each stall shall
have at least two stacking spaces at the entrance and one space at the exit.
   (B)   Vacuuming activities, if outdoors, shall be at least 100 feet from any
residential district. Wash bays shall be located at least 50 feet from any
residential district.
   (C)   Should wash bays be located with openings parallel to an adjacent
street, they shall be screened by a solid wall or fence, six feet in height,
erected along any common lot line. The fence or wall shall be continuously
maintained in good condition.
   (D)   Only one access driveway shall be permitted on any single street. All
access driveways shall be located at least 25 feet from the centerline of the
intersection of any street or driveway.
   (E)   Where adjoining a residential district, a solid wall or fence, six
feet in height, shall be erected along any common lot line. The fence shall be
continuously maintained in good condition.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.164  OPEN AIR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A five-foot fence or wall shall be constructed along the rear and
sides of the lot, capable of keeping trash, paper, and other debris from
blowing off the premises.
   (B)   The lot area used for parking, display, or storage shall be provided
with a permanent, durable and dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained
so as to dispose of all surface water.
   (C)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or driveway.
   (D)   Any display materials or equipment stored or displayed outside of an
enclosed building shall not extend into any required yard or occupy any
required parking or maneuvering areas for vehicles.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.165  VETERINARY HOSPITALS, ANIMAL CLINICS, AND COMMERCIAL KENNELS.
   Buildings, dog runs and/or exercise areas, or any other area where animals
are kept shall be set back 100 feet from any property line.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.166  UTILITY AND PUBLIC SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards, but not
including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems.
   (A)   Any buildings shall be generally compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (B)   Any building shall comply with the yard setback requirements of the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.167  BODY SHOPS.
   (A)   The main and accessory buildings and structures shall not be located
within 100 feet of any residential district.
   (B)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre and minimum lot width shall be 150
feet.
   (C)   All equipment and activities associated with vehicle repair
operations, except those in incidental use, such as air hoses, shall be kept
within an enclosed building.
   (D)   Inoperative vehicles left on the site shall, within 48 hours, be
stored within an enclosed building, or in an area screened by an opaque fence
not less than six feet in height. The fence shall be continuously maintained in
good condition.
   (E)   Storage of vehicle components and parts, trash, supplies, or equipment
outside of a building is prohibited.
   (F)   Access driveways shall be located at least 25 feet from the centerline
of the intersection of any street or driveway.
   (G)   Where adjoining a residential district or use property, a solid wall
or fence, six feet in height, shall be erected along any common lot line. The
fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in good condition.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.168  LUMBER AND PLANING MILLS.
   The main and accessory buildings and structures shall not be located within
200 feet of any residential district.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.169  METAL PLATING, BUFFING, AND POLISHING.
   The main and accessory buildings and structures shall not be located within
200 feet of any residential district or use property line.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.170  COMMERCIAL STORAGE WAREHOUSES.
   (A)   Lot area. Minimum lot area shall be two acres.
   (B)   Residence. A residence may be permitted on the premises for security
personnel or on-site operator. The residence shall conform to the minimum
requirements for a single-family dwelling in the R-2 District.
   (C)   Parking and circulation.
      (1)   One parking space shall be provided for each ten storage cubicles,
equally distributed throughout the storage area. The parking requirement may be
met with the parking lanes required for the storage area.
      (2)   Two parking spaces shall also be required for the residence of
security personnel or on-site operator employed on the premises.
      (3)   One parking space shall also be required for every 20 storage
cubicles, up to a maximum of ten spaces, to be located adjacent the rental
office for the use of customers.
      (4)   The following parking lanes and access aisles shall be required.
The parking lanes may be eliminated when the access aisle does not serve
storage cubicles.
 
             Aisle/Lane Width (Ft)         Number of Lanes/Aisles Required
Lane/Aisle   One-Way Two-Way (Each Lane or One-Way Two-Way
                     Aisle)
Access aisle 15      12                    1       2
Parking lane 10      10                    1       1
 
      (5)   All driveways, parking, loading, storage, and vehicular circulation
areas shall be paved.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.171  STAMPING OR PUNCH PRESS OPERATIONS.
   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment of
products requiring stamping or punch press operations. The main and accessory
buildings and structures shall not be located within 200 feet of any
residential district.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.172  JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Requests for a special land use approval for establishment of a
salvage, junk, or impound yard shall also require submission of a detailed
proposal identifying the predominant type of salvage or junk to be received,
the methods of separation and/or recycling, and ultimate destination of waste
materials. The applicant shall be required to submit written materials
outlining measures taken to comply with all necessary state, county, and local
laws.
   (B)   The site shall be provided with suitable access to a collector or
arterial road to ensure safe, direct transport of salvage to and from the site.
All portions of the storage area shall be accessible to emergency vehicles.
   (C)   No portion of the storage area shall be located within 500 feet of any
residential district or use, nor shall it be located within 1,000 feet of any
body of water.
   (D)   Any outdoor storage area shall be completely enclosed by a fence or
wall at least eight feet in height constructed of a sturdy, durable material
and sufficiently opaque to ensure that salvage is not visible from outside the
storage area. The fence or wall shall have a minimum of two non-transparent
gates not exceeding 48 feet in width providing access to the storage area for
vehicles, but shall not allow direct view of the storage area from adjacent
properties or streets. The fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in
good condition and shall contain only approved signs.
   (E)   Stored materials shall not be stacked higher than eight feet and shall
be stored in a manner so as not to be visible from adjoining properties or
rights-of-way. In no case shall salvage or junk be stored at a height exceeding
the height of the storage area fence or wall. The fence or wall enclosing the
storage area shall meet the applicable building setback requirements, provided
that all fences shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from any residential
district.
   (F)   A management office shall be provided on site. A residence may be
permitted for security personnel or on-site operator.
   (G)   Vehicles or vehicle bodies shall be stored in rows with a minimum of
20-foot continuous loop drives separating each row of vehicles.
   (H)   Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize the
hazards of fire and other threats to health and safety. All batteries shall be
removed from any vehicle, and all radiator and fuel tanks shall be drained
prior to the vehicle being placed in the storage yard. Salvaged batteries, oil,
and other such substances shall be removed by a licensed disposal company or be
stored in a manner which prevents leakage of fluid. No fluids removed from
vehicles shall be applied as a dust control method.
   (I)   Vehicle parts shall not be stored, loaded, unloaded, or dismantled
outside the fence enclosing the salvage yard. The area used for any dismantling
or any other activity associated with removing body parts or components shall
be paved with an asphalt or portland cement binder, and equipped with a
drainage system that will allow the capture of any fluids or other materials.
Any captured fluids shall be disposed of in a safe and sanitary manner.
   (J)   The property shall include at least six acres.
   (K)   In order to protect surrounding areas, the crushing of vehicles or any
part thereof shall be limited to daylight hours.
   (L)   The Planning Commission may impose other conditions which have a
reasonable relationship to the health, safety, and general welfare of the
township. These conditions can include a provision for an annual inspection by
the Zoning Administrator to ensure continuing compliance with the above
standards.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.173  BOAT LAUNCHES.
   (A)   No building, structure, dock, or parking area which is part of a boat
launch site shall be located nearer than 35 feet to any lot in a residential
district.
   (B)   Required parking facilities shall not be used for storage of boats or
trailers for periods exceeding 72 hours, from May 1 to September 15.
   (C)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or driveway.
   (D)   The lot area used for parking or other activity using motor vehicles
shall be provided with a permanent, durable and dustless surface, and shall be
graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface water in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the township and the County Drain Commission.
   (E)   Public boat launches and access sites shall be served by a public
road.
   (F)   All piers and docks associated with any proposed boat launch shall
meet the standards of all township ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.174  MARINAS.
   (A)   No building, structure, dock, or parking area which is part of a
marina shall be located nearer than 35 feet to any lot in a residential or
Waterfront District.
   (B)   Required parking facilities shall not be used for storage of boats or
trailers for periods exceeding 72 hours, from May 1 to September 15.
   (C)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or driveway.
   (D)   The lot area used for parking or other activity using motor vehicles
shall be provided with a permanent, durable, and dustless surface, and shall be
graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface water in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the township and the County Drain Commission.
   (E)   A five-foot fence or wall shall be constructed along the rear and
sides of the lot, capable of keeping trash, paper, and other debris from
blowing off the premises.
   (F)   All proposed marina construction, expansion, and reconfiguration
projects shall be subject to permit by the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality or its successor.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.175  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose and intent of these provisions is to regulate sexually
oriented businesses and related activities to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of patrons and employees of such businesses, and to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the township.
      (2)   In the development and execution of this section, it is recognized
that there are some uses which, because of their nature, have serious
objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when several of them
are concentrated under certain circumstances or when one or more of them is
located in proximity to a residential zone, thereby having a deleterious effect
upon the adjacent areas. These controls are for the purpose of preventing
deterioration or blighting of a surrounding residential neighborhood.
      (3)   These provisions are not intended, nor shall they have the effect
of, imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials including, but not limited to, sexually oriented materials that are
protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or by Art.
I, § 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
      (4)   Additionally, it is not the intent of the provisions of this
section, nor shall it have the effect of, restricting or denying access by
adults to sexually oriented materials that are protected by said federal and
state constitutions.
      (5)   Further, it is not the intent of these provisions, nor shall they
have the effect of, denying access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their target market.
      (6)   These regulations shall not be interpreted as intending to
legitimize any activities which are prohibited by federal or state law, or by
any other ordinance of the township.
   (B)   Use requirements.
      (1)   The use is located within a zoning district in which sexually
oriented businesses are specifically permitted as a special land use.
      (2)   The use is not located within a 1,000-foot radius of any other such
use, measured in a straight line from the nearest lot line to the nearest lot
line, except that such restrictions may be waived by the Township Board, if the
following findings are made.
         (a)   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest or
injurious to nearby properties, and that the spirit and intent of this section
will be observed.
         (b)   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a blighted or deteriorating area in its immediate surroundings.
         (c)   The establishment of a regulated use, or an additional regulated
use, in the area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood
conservation.
         (d)   All applicable state laws and local ordinances will be observed.
         (e)   Prior to the granting of any waiver as herein provided, the
Township Board may impose any such conditions or limitations upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance, or operation of the
regulated use as may, in its judgment, be necessary for the protection of the
public interest. Any evidence and any guarantee may be required as proof that
the conditions stipulated in connection therewith will be fulfilled.
      (3)   Parking spaces shall be provided at the ratio of one space per
person permitted by the maximum occupancy load established by local, county,
state, fire, health, or building codes.
      (4)   No adult use shall remain open at any time between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. and no such use shall be open on Sundays.
      (5)   No alcohol shall be served at any adult use.
      (6)   No adult use shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to
enter the premises. Signs shall be conspicuously posted noting that such minors
are not allowed.
      (7)   All parking areas and the building shall be well lighted to ensure
the safety and security of patrons. These areas shall remain lighted for one
hour after closing each night.
      (8)   The use shall be located more than 500 feet from any residential
district boundary, measured to the nearest lot line of the proposed use.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.176  BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The establishment shall be serviced by adequate water and sanitary
sewer services, as approved by the County Health Department.
   (B)   The establishment shall be located on property with direct access to a
public street.
   (C)   No such use shall be permitted on any property where there exists more
than one other bed and breakfast establishment within 750 feet, measured
between the closest property lines.
   (D)   Parking shall be located to minimize negative impacts on adjacent
properties.
   (E)   The number of guest rooms in the establishment shall not exceed seven.
   (F)   Exterior refuse storage facilities beyond what might normally be
expected for a single-family dwelling shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Signs for bed and breakfast establishments shall be limited to one
ground sign or one wall sign. A ground sign shall not exceed ten square feet in
size, and must be set back at least five feet from all property lines. A wall
sign shall not exceed 5% of the wall area to which it is attached.
   (H)   The establishment shall contain the principal residence of the
operator.
   (I)   Accessory retail or service uses to a bed and breakfast establishment
shall be prohibited, including, but not limited to, gift shops, antique shops,
restaurants, bakeries, and so forth. Meals shall be served only to the
operator’s family, employees, and overnight guests.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.177  PRIVATE SCHOOLS, CHURCHES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Such uses shall require a minimum lot size of two acres, except for
parks and playgrounds, which shall meet the lot requirement of the district in
which it is located.
   (B)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or driveway.
   (C)   The main and accessory buildings and structures shall not be located
within 50 feet of any residential district.
   (D)   Lighting for parking or outdoor activity areas shall be shielded to
prevent light from spilling onto any residential district.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.178  INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Any intensive livestock operation (ILO) shall be located at least one
mile from any other ILO, as measured from the nearest lot lines of each use.
   (B)   All buildings, structures, enclosed areas, or storage areas for
wastes, feed, or other associated materials, associated with an ILO shall be
located at least 200 feet from any lot line.
   (C)   ILOs shall be established on a lot or lots totaling at least 20
contiguous acres.
   (D)   All buildings, structures, enclosed areas, or storage areas for
wastes, feed, or other associated materials, associated with an ILO shall be
located at least 500 feet from any water body or floodplain.
   (E)   The ILO shall comply at all times with any applicable federal or state
regulation.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.179  OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to promote the goals of the Township
Master Plan to permit the development of single-family dwellings in patterns
that will:
      (1)   Protect rural character and productive agricultural lands;
      (2)   Minimize demand for public service;
      (3)   Encourage a more creative approach to single-family residential
development than conventional land division and allow greater flexibility in
the placement of units;
      (4)   Provide a more desirable living environment through the
preservation and conservation of natural features such as topography, wetlands,
woodlands, water bodies, and other natural assets;
      (5)   Reduce the number of driveways accessing county primary and local
roads; and
      (6)   Encourage the provision of open space.
   (B)   The open space preservation developments shall be located on a minimum
of ten contiguous acres.
   (C)   In the review of a proposed development under this section, the
Planning Commission shall make the following findings.
      (1)   The intent of the open space preservation option, as set forth in
this section, is met.
      (2)   The parcel contains natural assets that would be preserved through
the use of open space development. These assets may include natural stands of
large trees; land which serves as a natural habitat for wildlife; wetlands;
bodies of water (i.e., streams, rivers, and lakes); unusual topographic
features; major topographic conditions which make development under normal
zoning impractical; or other natural assets that would be preserved; or the
parcel contains productive agricultural lands which would be preserved through
the use of an open space development.
      (3)   Due to the size and shape of the parcel, utilization of the open
space preservation option would result in the more creative and efficient use
of the property and would not create a negative effect upon surrounding
properties.
   (D)   All open space developments shall conform to the following site design
requirements.
      (1)   When completed, the development shall have a minimum of 50% of area
devoted to open space for the use and enjoyment of residents of the development
or the public, as applicable, subject to the following standards:
         (a)   Designated open space shall remain either in its natural state
and/or used for specifically designed recreational purposes;
         (b)   Designated open space may include area within the development
setback as required by division (D)(2) below;
         (c)   Designated open space shall not include: rights-of-way or
easements designated for road purposes, areas within lots, or land which is
underwater (lakes, streams, water courses, and other similar bodies of water);
         (d)   The reservation of open space areas under this section shall be
conditioned upon the recording of appropriate conservation easements or other
instruments for the purpose of providing for long-term maintenance and
preservation of common areas, open space areas, wooded areas, and/or other
areas with natural resources or features to be preserved on the property. Any
easement and/or other instrumentation shall be in a form and contain the
content approved by the Township Attorney;
         (e)   Open space areas shall be large enough and of proper dimensions
so as to constitute a useable area, with adequate access, through easements or
other similar arrangements, such that all properties within the entire
development may utilize the available open space; and
         (f)   Open space may be provided where significant natural features
may be preserved and/or be used for passive or active recreation. Open space is
encouraged to be located between neighborhood clusters of housing units.
      (2)   Development setback.
         (a)   Any BUILDING AREA, which, for the purposes of this section,
shall mean the area within any lot lines on a lot on which a principal use is
located, shall be located at least 200 feet from any public street right-of-way
not constructed as part of the development.
         (b)   No native or natural vegetation shall be removed from the 200-
foot setback, nor any grading or changes in topography occur, except that
necessary for entrance roads, required utilities, or drainage improvements.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may modify this requirement provided the
applicant demonstrates that the clearing of existing vegetation would
contribute significantly to the intent of the open space development.
         (d)   The Planning Commission may reduce this setback if existing
landscaping provides a natural screen, or the proposed development provides
such a landscape screen. In any case, the setback shall be not less than 100
feet. The landscape screen shall meet all of the following minimum
requirements:
            1.   Occupy at least 70% of the lineal distance of the property
line abutting any public street right-of-way;
            2.   Have a depth of unoccupied land of at least 50 feet;
            3.   Have at least 50% opacity from the roadside view at the time
of planting; and
            4.   Consist of existing vegetation, land forms, or landscaped
areas using native or natural materials, or a combination thereof.
         (e)   Sites abutting more than one public street shall be permitted to
reduce the setback on the shortest side of the abutting streets to 100 feet
without a natural screen. No native or natural vegetation shall be removed from
the 100-foot setback, nor any grading or changes in topography occur, except
that as may be necessary for entrance roads or utilities.
      (3)   To provide an orderly transition of density when an open space
development abuts a residential district of equal or lower density, the
township may require open space along the common boundaries, screening in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and/or an area or row of lots
generally equal or nearly equal in size and character with neighboring
residential lots.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.180  VEHICLE SALES.
   (A)   Location requirements.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be one acre and minimum lot width shall
be 150 feet.
      (2)   The proposed site shall front on a paved primary road. All ingress
and egress shall be either from the road or from an approved shared access
drive to that road.
      (3)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or driveway.
      (4)   The main building shall be at least 30 feet from any property line.
   (B)   Buffering requirements.
      (1)   Any portion of the site immediately adjacent to a residential
district shall be screened with a minimum five-foot fence or wall.
      (2)   A landscaped, planted open space of a minimum of ten feet in depth
shall be provided along the full street frontage of the site.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may require a five-foot fence or wall to be
constructed along the rear and sides of the lot, capable of keeping trash,
paper, and other debris from blowing off the premises.
   (C)   Performance standards.
      (1)   The site shall be kept in a neat and orderly fashion.
      (2)   The lot area used for parking shall be hard surfaced. All parking,
display, or storage area shall be provided with a permanent, durable, and
dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water on site.
      (3)   Any vehicle stored or displayed outside of an enclosed building
shall not be located within the required front yard, within 20 feet of any side
or rear lot line, or occupy any required parking or maneuvering areas for
vehicles. No vehicle which is inoperative shall be stored on the premises for
more than one week. Inoperative vehicles must be screened from view from public
streets or residential districts by a minimum six-foot obscuring fence.
      (4)   All repair, assembly, disassembly, or maintenance of vehicles shall
occur within a closed building, except for minor maintenance, including tire
replacement, adding oil, and wiper replacement.
      (5)   The facility shall meet all pertinent licensing requirements of the
state, the county, and the township.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.181  PRIVATE HUNTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The use of this facility is limited to use by the property owner and
guests only during State of Michigan DNR scheduled hunting season.
   (B)   No rental, leasing, retail, or commercial uses are allowed.
   (C)   The applicant shall obtain all required permits from the township,
county, and state.
   (D)   Any bathroom or kitchen must be connected to an approved sanitary
system.
   (E)   Overnight occupancy is permitted, provided all safety and building
codes are inspected and approved for use.
   (F)   Setback requirements must be met.
   (G)   Lot size is 15 acres or larger.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.182  PRIVATE DOCKS ACCESSORY TO NON-RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   One dock or pier shall be permitted for each parcel.
   (B)   Docks or piers shall be used only by patrons of the premises and their
guests, and shall not be leased, rented, or otherwise made available for
compensation.
   (C)   No waterfront sales of gasoline, fuel oil, or other flammable liquids
or gases shall be allowed.
   (D)   All piers and docks allowed under this section shall meet all
standards of the Township Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.183  PRIVATE DOCK ON VACANT RESIDENTIAL PARCEL.
   (A)   One dock shall be permitted for each parcel.
   (B)   Dock and pier shall be used only by property owner and their guests.
   (C)   Dock and pier shall not be leased, rented, or otherwise made available
for compensation.
   (D)   All docks and piers allowed under this section shall meet all
standards of the Township Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Parcel considered for special use shall be under single ownership.
   (F)   This section is meant to avoid key holing or avoiding the need for a
license for a marina.
   (G)   Multiple ownership lot: primary owner (i.e., first name on deed) shall
be considered single owner and user of dock.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.184  RENTAL HALLS.
   (A)   The use shall be located on property with direct access to a public
street.
   (B)   Any outdoor activity areas shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from
any residential district or use property line.
   (C)   Lighting for parking areas or outdoor activity shall be shielded to
prevent light from spilling onto any residential or use property line.
   (D)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 50 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
   (E)   Applicant shall secure all necessary permits from township, county,
and state authorities. Applications to the township shall include:
      (1)   The expected number of events per year;
      (2)   The maximum number of attendees per event (to be determined based
on the size of the size of the venue);
      (3)   The number of employees (owner representatives to be present during
events);
      (4)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation shall not exceed 12:00
a.m. including cleanup. Music shall end at 11:00 p.m.;
      (5)   Restroom provisions, including ADA compliant based on the maximum
number of attendees;
      (6)   Proposed lighting for the structure and parking area shall be
sufficient to provide safety without infringing on neighboring property;
      (7)   Sound amplification to be used only within the structure;
      (8)   Use of temporary structures or tents in conjunction with events;
      (9)   Proposed signage - shall comply with the township sign chapter (see
Chapter 153);
      (10)   Security to be provided;
      (11)   Location of trash receptacles;
      (12)   Traffic management and parking plans; and
      (13)   Other documentation as required by township, county, and state
officials, including a stamped copy of the state and township approved plans
for the venue.
(Ord. 19-20, passed 8-6-2019)
CONDITIONAL REZONING
§ 155.195  INTENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that they are certain instances where it would be in
the best interest of the township, as well as advantageous to property owners
seeking a change in zoning boundaries, if certain conditions could be proposed
by property owners as part of a request for a rezoning.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to provide a process consistent with
the provisions of § 16.01 of the Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A.§§ 125.3101
et seq., by which an owner seeking a rezoning may voluntarily propose
conditions regarding the use and or development of land as part of the rezoning
request.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.196  APPLICATION AND OFFER OF INTENT.
   (A)   An owner of land may voluntarily offer, in writing, conditions
relating to the use and or development of land for which a rezoning is filed or
may be made at a later time during the rezoning process.
   (B)   The required application and process for considering a rezoning
request with conditions shall be the same as that for considering rezoning
requests made without any offer of conditions, except as modified by the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   The owner’s offer of conditions may not purport to authorize uses of
developments not permitted in the requested zoning district.
   (D)   The owner’s offer of conditions shall bear a reasonable and rational
relationship to the property for which rezoning is requested.
   (E)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
would require a special land use permit under the terms of this subchapter may
only be commenced if a special land use permit for such development is
ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   Any use of development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
would require a variance under the terms of this subchapter may only be
commenced if a variance for such use or development is ultimately granted by
the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with provisions of this subchapter.
   (G)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
would require site plan approval under terms of this subchapter may only be
commenced if site plan approval for such use or development is ultimately
granted according with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (H)   The offer of conditions may be amended during the process of rezoning
consideration, provided that any amended or additional conditions are entered
voluntarily by the owner. An owner may withdraw all or part of its offer of
conditions any time prior to final rezoning action of the Township Board,
provided that, if such withdrawal occurs subsequent to the Planning
Commission’s public hearing on the original rezoning request, then the rezoning
application shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a new public
hearing with appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.197  PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   The Planning Commission, after public hearing and consideration of the
factors for rezoning set forth in §
155.196, may recommend approval, approval with recommended changes, or denial
of the rezoning; provided, however, that any recommended changes to the offer
of conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.198  TOWNSHIP BOARD REVIEW.
   After receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Township
Board shall deliberate upon the requested rezoning and may approve or deny the
conditional rezoning request. The Township Board’s deliberation shall include,
but not be limited to, a consideration of the factors for rezoning set forth in
§
155.196. Should the Township Board consider amendments to the proposed
conditional rezoning advisable and if such contemplated amendments to the offer
of conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner, then the
Township Board shall, in accordance with Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq., refer such amendments to the Planning Commission for a report
thereon within a time specified by the Township Board and proceed thereafter in
accordance with said statute to deny or approve the conditional rezoning with
or without amendments.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.199  APPROVAL.
   (A)   If the Township Board finds the rezoning request and offer of
conditions acceptable, the offered conditions shall be incorporated into a
formal written statement of conditions acceptable to the owner and conforming
in form to the provisions of this section. The statement of conditions shall be
incorporated by attachment or otherwise as an inseparable part of the ordinance
adopted by the Township Board to accomplish the requested rezoning.
   (B)   The statement of conditions shall:
      (1)   Be in a form recordable with the Register of Deeds of the county,
or in the alternative, be accompanied by a recordable affidavit or memorandum
prepared and signed by the owner giving notice of the statement of conditions
in a manner acceptable to the Township Board;
      (2)   Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains;
      (3)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of conditions
runs with the land and is binding upon successor owners of the land;
      (4)   Incorporate by attachment or reference and diagram, plans or other
documents submitted or approved by the owner that are necessary to illustrate
the implementation of the statement of conditions. If any such documents are
incorporated by reference, the reference shall specify where the documents may
be examined;
      (5)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of conditions
or an affidavit or memorandum giving notice thereof may be recorded by the
township with the Register of Deeds of the county; and
      (6)   Contain the notarized signatures of all of the owners of the
subject land preceded by a statement attesting to the fact that they
voluntarily offer and consent to the provisions contained within the statement
of conditions.
   (C)   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the zoning map shall be amended to
reflect the new zoning classification along with a designation that the land
was rezoned with a statement of conditions. The Township Clerk shall maintain a
listing of all lands rezoned with a statement of conditions.
   (D)   The approved statement of conditions or an affidavit or memorandum
giving notice thereof shall be filed by the township with the Register of Deeds
of the county. The Township Board shall have authority to waive this
requirement if it determines that, given the nature of the conditions and for
the time frame within which the conditions are to be satisfied, the recording
of such a document would be of no material benefit to the township or to any
subsequent owner of the land.
   (E)   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the use of the land so rezoned shall
conform thereafter to all of the requirements regulating use and development
within the new zoning district as modified by any more restrictive provisions
contained in the statement of conditions.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.200  COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any person who establishes a development or commences a use upon land
that has been rezoned with conditions shall continuously operate and maintain
the development or use in compliance with all of the conditions set forth in
the statement of conditions. Any failure to comply with a condition contained
within the statement of conditions shall constitute a violation of this section
and be punishable accordingly. Additionally, any such violation shall be deemed
a nuisance per se and subject to judicial abatement as provided by law.
   (B)   No permit or approval shall be granted under this subchapter for any
use or development that is contrary to an applicable statement of conditions.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)  Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.201  TIME PERIOD FOR ESTABLISHING DEVELOPMENT OR USE.
   (A)   Unless another time period is specified in this subchapter rezoning
the subject land, the approved development and/or use of the land pursuant to
building and other required permits must be commenced upon the land within 18
months after the rezoning took effect and thereafter proceed diligently to
completion.
   (B)   The time limitation may, upon written request, be extended by the
Township Board if:
      (1)   It is demonstrated to the Township Board’s reasonable satisfaction
that there is strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence
within the period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion;
and
      (2)   The Township Board finds that there has not been a change in
circumstances that would render the current zoning with statement of conditions
incompatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding area or otherwise
inconsistent with sound zoning policy.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.202  REVERSION OF ZONING.
   If approved development and/or use of the rezoned land does not occur within
the time frame specified under §
155.201, then the land shall revert to its former zoning classification as set
forth in Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. The reversion
process shall be initiated by the Township Board requesting that the Planning
Commission proceed with consideration of rezoning of the land to its former
rezoning classification. The procedure for considering and making this
reversionary rezoning shall thereafter be the same as applies to all other
rezoning requests.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.203  SUBSEQUENT REZONING OF LAND.
   When land that is rezoned with a statement of conditions is thereafter
rezoned to a different zoning classification or to the same zoning
classification but with a different or no statement of conditions, whether as a
result of a reversion of zoning pursuant to §
155.196(H) or otherwise, the statement of conditions imposed under the former
zoning classification shall cease to be in effect. Upon the owner’s written
request, the Township Clerk shall record with the Register of Deeds of the
county a notice that the statement of conditions is no longer in effect.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.204  AMENDMENTS OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   During the time period for commencement of an approved development or
use specified pursuant to §
155.196(H), or during any extension thereof granted by the Township Board, the
township shall not add to or alter the conditions in the statement of
conditions.
   (B)   The statement of conditions may be amended thereafter in the same
manner as was prescribed for the original rezoning statement of conditions.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.205  TOWNSHIP RIGHT TO REZONE.
   Nothing in the statement of conditions, nor in the provisions of any section
of this subchapter, shall be deemed to prohibit the township from rezoning all
or any portion of land that is subject to a statement of conditions to another
zoning classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in compliance with this
chapter and the Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.206  FAILURE TO OFFER CONDITIONS.
   The township shall not require an owner to offer conditions as a requirement
for rezoning. The lack of an offer of conditions shall not affect an owner’s
rights under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
WIND GENERATED POWER
§ 155.220  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the township by regulating the use of wind generated
power stations.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.221  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT.  The sound pressure level exceeded 90% of the time or L90.
   ANSI.  American National Standards Institute.
   COMMERCIAL GRADE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.  A commercial grade wind energy system
shall be greater than 25 kw and shall be intended to primarily serve the needs
of the customer.
   DB(A).  The sound pressure level in decibels. Refers to the “a” weighted
scale defined by ANSI. A method for weighing the frequency spectrum to mimic
the human ear.
   DECIBEL.  The unit of measure used to express the magnitude of sound
pressure and sound intensity.
   IEC.  International Electrotechnical Commission. The IEC is the leading
global organization that prepares and publishes international standards for all
electrical, electronic, and related technologies.
   ISO.  International Organization for Standardization. ISO is a network of
the national standards institutes of 156 countries.
   ON SITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.  An on site use wind energy system is
intended to primarily serve the needs of the consumer and shall be less than 25
kw.
   ROTOR.  An element of a commercial grade wind energy system that acts as a
multi-bladed airfoil assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic
energy directly from wind.
   SCADA TOWER.  A freestanding tower containing instruments such as
anemometers that is designed to provide present moment wind data for use by the
supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system.
   SHADOW FLICKER.  Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blades of a wind energy system casting shadows on the ground and stationary
objects, such as a window at a dwelling.
   SOUND PRESSURE.  Average rate at which sound energy is transmitted through a
unit area in a specified direction. The pressure of the sound measured at a
receiver.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.  The sound pressure mapped to a logarithmic scale and
reported in decibels (Db).
   UTILITY GRADE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.  A utility grade wind energy system is
designed and built to provide electricity to the electric utility grid.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.  A wind energy conversion system which converts wind
energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and
includes the turbine, blades, and tower as well as related electrical
equipment. This does not include wiring to connect the wind energy system to
the grid.
   WIND SITE ASSESSMENT.  An assessment to determine the wind speeds at a
specific site and the feasibility of using that site for construction of a wind
energy system.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.222  ON-SITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   An on-site use wind energy system is intended to primarily serve the
needs of the consumer. An on-site use wind energy system with a tower higher
than 60 feet shall be considered a special land use.
   (B)   On site use wind energy systems with no towers, or towers 60 feet or
less, shall be a permitted use in all zoning classifications where structures
of any sort are allowed, subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Anemometer towers more than 60 feet in height used to conduct a
wind site assessment for possible installation of an on-site use wind energy
system shall also be a special land use.
      (2)   Prior to the installation of an on-site use wind energy system with
a tower higher than an overall height of 75 feet, an application for a special
land use permit shall be filed with the township, which will include:
         (a)   Applicant identification;
         (b)   A site plan;
         (c)   Documentation that sound pressure level, construction code,
tower, interconnection (if applicable), and safety requirements have been met;
and
         (d)   Proof of the applicant’s public liability insurance.
   (C)   Prior to the installation of an anemometer tower more than an overall
height of 75 feet, an application for a special land use permit shall be filed
with the township that will include:
      (1)   Application identification;
      (2)   A site plan;
      (3)   A copy of that portion of the applicant’s lease with the land owner
granting authority to install the MET tower and requiring the applicant to
remove all equipment and restore the site after completion of the wind
assessment; and
      (4)   Proof of the applicant’s public liability insurance.
   (D)   The distance between an on-site use wind energy system and the owner’s
property lines shall be at least one time the height of the wind energy system
tower including the top of the blade in its vertical position. The distance
between an anemometer tower and the owner’s property lines shall be at least
one time the height of the tower. No part of the wind energy system structure,
including guy wire anchors, may extend closer than seven feet to the owner’s
property lines.
   (E)   On site use wind energy systems shall not exceed 55 Db(A) at the
property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound pressure level may
be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 Db(A), the standard
shall be ambient Db(A) plus five Db(A).
   (F)   On-site use wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with
all applicable state construction and electrical codes and local building
permit requirements. On-site use wind energy systems including towers shall
comply with Federal Aviation Administration requirements, the Michigan Airport
Zoning Act (Public Act 23 of 1950, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq.), the
Michigan Tall Structures Act (Public Act 259 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481
et seq.), and local jurisdiction airport overlay zone regulations. An
interconnected on-site use wind energy system shall comply with Michigan Public
Service Commission and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission standards. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
   (G)   An on-site use wind energy system shall have automatic braking,
governing, or a feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation or over
speeding. All wind towers shall have lightning protection. If a tower is
supported by guy wires, the wires shall be clearly visible to a height of at
least six feet above the guy wire anchors. The minimum vertical blade tip
clearance from grade shall be 20 feet for a wind energy system employing a
horizontal axis rotor.
   (H)   An on-site wind energy system shall be no larger than 25 kw.
   (I)   No part of the blade shall be closer to the ground than 20 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.223  COMMERCIAL GRADE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Commercial grade wind energy system shall be permitted in Agricultural
Residential Districts, Commercial Districts, and Industrial Districts by
special land use permit.
   (B)   (1)   A commercial grade wind energy system shall be contained in the
setbacks of the district in which it is located and all anchoring devices shall
be located so as not to infringe on the setback requirements of the district.
      (2)   The distance between a commercial grade wind energy system and the
property lines of adjacent non-leased properties, including public rights-of-
way, shall be at least the height of the wind energy system tower, including
the top of the blade in its vertical position. Where property is leased on both
sides of public right-of-way, a wind energy system may be placed no closer than
one rotor radius from the closest edge of the right-of-way. Leased property can
include more than one piece of property and the requirement shall apply to the
combined properties.
      (3)   SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) or meteorological
(MET) towers shall also comply with the property setback requirement. The
setback shall be at least the height of the SCADA or MET tower. An operations
and maintenance office building, a substation, or ancillary equipment shall
comply with any property setback requirement that may be applicable to that
type of building or equipment. Overhead transmission lines and power poles
shall comply with the setback requirements applicable to public utilities.
   (C)   The maximum height of any commercial grade wind energy systems shall
be 300 feet from the tip of the blade at its highest point.
   (D)   The tip of the blade for a commercial wind energy system shall come no
closer to the ground than 35 feet.
   (E)   On site use wind energy systems shall not exceed 55 Db(A) at the
property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound pressure level may
be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 Db(A), the standard
shall be ambient Db(A) plus five Db(A).
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.224  WIND SITE ASSESSMENT FOR UTILITY GRADE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of a utility grade wind energy system, a
wind site assessment is conducted to determine the wind speeds and the
feasibility of using the site. Installation of anemometer towers also known as
meteorological or “MET” towers shall be considered a special land use. Prior to
the installation of the tower, an application for a special land use permit
shall be filed with the township that will include:
      (1)   Applicant identification;
      (2)   A site plan;
      (3)   A copy of that portion of the applicant’s lease with the land owner
granting authority to install the MET tower and requiring the applicant to
remove all equipment and restore the site after completion of the wind site
assessment; and
      (4)   Proof of the applicant’s public liability insurance. The distance
from the center of a MET tower and the property lines between the leased
property and the non-leased property shall be at least the height of the MET
tower.
   (B)   Leased property can include more than one piece of property and the
requirement shall apply to the combined properties.
   (C)   A utility grade wind energy system is designed and built to provide
electricity to the electric utility grid. Utility grade wind energy systems
shall be considered a special land use. Prior to the installation of a utility
grade wind energy system, an application for a special land use permit shall be
filed with the township and shall include the following:
      (1)   Applicant identification. Applicant name, address, and contact
information;
      (2)   Project description. A general description of the proposed project
including a legal description of the property or properties on which the
project would be located and an anticipated construction schedule;
      (3)   Site plan. The site plan shall include maps showing the physical
features and land uses of the project area, both before and after construction
of the proposed project. The site plan shall include:
         (a)   The project area boundaries;
         (b)   The location, height, and dimensions of all existing and
proposed structures and fencing;
         (c)   The location, grades, and dimensions of all temporary and
permanent on-site and access roads from the nearest county or state maintained
road;
         (d)   Existing topography;
         (e)   Water bodies, waterways, wetlands, and drainage channels; and
         (f)   All new above-ground infrastructure related to the project.
      (4)   Insurance. Proof of the applicant’s public liability insurance;
      (5)   Sound pressure level. Copy of the modeling and analysis report;
      (6)   Certifications. Certification that applicant has complied or will
comply with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. Copies of
all such permits and approvals that have been obtained or applied for at time
of the application;
      (7)   Visual impact. Visual simulations of how the completed project will
look from four viewable angles;
      (8)   Environment impact. Copy of the environment impact analysis;
      (9)   Avian and wildlife impact. Copy of the avian and wildlife impact
analysis;
      (10)   Shadow flicker. Copy of the shadow flicker analysis;
      (11)   Manufacturer’s material safety data sheet(s). Documentation shall
include the type and quantity of all materials used in the operation of all
equipment including, but not limited to, all lubricants and coolants;
      (12)   Decommissioning. Copy of the decommissioning plan; and
      (13)   Complaint resolution. Description of the complaint resolution
process.
   (D)   A utility grade wind energy system will be allowed in an AR,
Commercial, and Industrial District by special land use permit.
   (E)   A utility grade wind energy system shall not be located closer than 75
feet from any structure.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.225  APPLICATION.
   An applicant shall remit an application fee in the amount specified in the
fee schedule adopted by the township. This schedule shall be based on the cost
of the application review and may be adjusted from time to time.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.226  UTILITY GRADE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The utility grade wind energy system project shall meet the following
standards and requirements in §§
155.226 through
155.237.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.227  PROPERTY SETBACK.
   (A)   The distance between a utility grade wind energy system and the
property lines of adjacent non-leased properties, including public rights-of-
way, shall be at least the height of the wind energy system tower including the
top of the blade in its vertical position.
   (B)   Where property is leased on both sides of a public right-of-way, a
wind energy system may be placed no closer than one rotor radius from the
closest edge of the right-of-way. Leased property can include more than one
piece of property and the requirement shall apply to the combined properties.
   (C)   SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition) or meteorological
(MET) towers shall also comply with the property setback requirement. The
setback shall be at least the height of the SCADA or MET tower.
   (D)   An operations and maintenance office building, a substation, or
ancillary equipment shall comply with any property setback requirement that may
be applicable to that type of building or equipment.
   (E)   Overhead transmission lines and power poles shall comply with the
setback requirements applicable to public utilities.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.228  SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.
   (A)   The sound pressure level generated by a utility grid wind energy
system shall not exceed 55 Db(A) measured at the property lines between leased
and non-leased property. This sound pressure level shall not be exceeded for
more than three minutes in any hour of the day. If the ambient sound pressure
level exceeds 55 Db(A), the standard shall be ambient Db(A) plus five Db(A).
   (B)   As part of the application and prior to installation, the applicant
shall provide modeling and analysis that will confirm that the utility grade
wind energy system will not exceed the maximum permitted sound pressure levels.
Modeling and analysis shall conform to IEC 61400 and ISO 9613.
   (C)   After installation of the utility grade wind energy system, sound
pressure level measurements shall be done by a third party, qualified
professional according to the procedures in the most current version of ANSI
S12.18. All sound pressure levels shall be measured with a sound meter that
meets or exceeds the most current version of ANSI S1.4 specification for a Type
II sound meter. Documentation of the sound pressure level measurements shall be
provided to the local government within 60 days of the commercial operation of
the project.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.229  CONSTRUCTION CODES, TOWERS, AND INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Utility grade wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with
all applicable state construction and electrical codes and local building
permit requirements.
   (B)   Utility grade wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with
Federal Aviation Administration requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act
(Public Act 23 of 1950, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq.), the Michigan Tall
Structures Act (Public Act 259 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq.), and
local jurisdiction airport overlay zone regulations. The minimum FAA lighting
standards shall not be exceeded. All tower lighting required by the FAA shall
be shielded to the extent possible to reduce glare and visibility from the
ground. The tower shaft shall not be illuminated unless required by FAA.
   (C)   Utility grade wind energy systems shall comply with applicable
utility, Michigan Public Service Commission, and Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission interconnection standards. The tip of the blade shall come no closer
to the ground than 35 feet.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.230  SAFETY.
   (A)   All utility grade wind energy systems shall be designed to prevent
unauthorized access to electrical and mechanical components and shall have
access doors that are kept securely locked at all times when service personnel
are not present.
   (B)   All spent lubricants and cooling fluids shall be properly and safely
removed in a timely manner from the site of the wind energy system.
   (C)   A sign shall be posted near the tower or operations and maintenance
office building that will contain emergency contact information. Signage placed
at the road access shall be used to warn visitors about the potential danger of
falling ice and an emergency contact telephone number.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.231  VISUAL IMPACT.
   (A)   Utility grade wind energy system projects shall use tubular towers and
all utility grade wind energy systems in a project shall be finished in a
single, non-reflective matte finished color. A project shall be constructed
using wind energy systems of similar design, size, operation, and appearance
throughout the project.
   (B)   No lettering, company insignia, advertising, or graphics shall be on
any part of the tower, hub, or blades. Nacelles may have lettering that
exhibits the manufacturer’s and/or owner’s identification.
   (C)   The applicant shall avoid state or federal scenic areas and
significant visual resources listed in the local unit of government’s
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.232  ENVIRONMENT IMPACT.
   (A)   The applicant shall have a third party, qualified professional conduct
an analysis to identify and assess any potential impacts on the natural
environment including, but not limited to, wetlands and other fragile
ecosystems, historical and cultural sites, and antiquities.
   (B)   The applicant shall take appropriate measures to minimize, eliminate,
or mitigate adverse impacts identified in the analysis.
   (C)   The applicant shall identify and evaluate the significance of any net
effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation efforts.
   (D)   The applicant shall comply with applicable parts of the Michigan
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (Public Act 451 of 1994,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.) including, but not limited to, Part 31 -
Water Resources Protection (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq.), Part 91 - Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.9101 et seq.), Part 301 -
Inland Lakes and Streams (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30101 et seq.), Part 303 - Wetlands
(M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30301 et seq.), Part 323 - Shoreland Protection and Management
(M.C.L.A. §§ 324.32301 et seq.), Part 325 - Great Lakes Submerged Lands
(M.C.L.A. §§ 324.32501 et seq.), and Part 353 - Sand Dunes Protection and
Management (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.35301 et seq.).
   (E)   The applicant shall be responsible for making repairs to any public
roads damaged by the construction of the utility grade wind energy system.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.233  AVIAN AND WILDLIFE IMPACT.
   (A)   The applicant shall have a third party, qualified professional conduct
an analysis to identify and assess any potential impacts of wildlife and
endangered species. The applicant shall take appropriate measures to minimize,
eliminate, or mitigate adverse impacts identified in the analysis. The
applicant shall identify and evaluate the significance of any net effects or
concerns that will remain after mitigation efforts.
   (B)   Sites requiring special scrutiny include wildlife refuges, other areas
where birds are highly concentrated, bat hibernacula, wooded ridge tops that
attract wildlife, sites that are frequented by federally and/or state listed
endangered species of birds and bats, significant bird migration pathways, and
areas that have landscape features known to attract large numbers of raptors.
   (C)   At a minimum, the analysis shall include a thorough review of existing
information regarding species and potential habitats in the vicinity of the
project area. Where appropriate, surveys for bat, raptors, and general avian
use should be conducted. The analysis shall include the potential effects on
species listed under the federal Endangered Species Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§
1531 et seq., and Michigan’s Endangered Species Protection Law, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 324.36501 et seq. The analysis shall indicate whether a post construction
wildlife mortality study will be conducted and, if not, the reasons why such a
study does not need to be conducted.
   (D)   Power lines should be placed underground, when feasible, to prevent
avian collisions and electrocutions. All above-ground lines, transformers, or
conductors should comply with the Avian Power Line Interaction Committee
(APLIC, http://www.apltc.org/) published standards to prevent avian mortality.
Applicants must comply with applicable sections of the federal Endangered
Species Act and Michigan’s Endangered Species Protection Law. The applicant
should be aware that taking of these species is prohibited by state and/or
federal law unless the proper permits or exemptions are acquired. Early
coordination with state and federal agencies is recommended.
   (E)   The applicant or the applicant’s impact analyst should contact the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife’s East Lansing Field Office regarding federally-listed
species and the Michigan Department of Natural Resources for state-listed
species.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.234  ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   No utility grade wind energy system shall be installed in any location
where its proximity to existing fixed broadcast, retransmission, or reception
antennas for radio, television, or wireless phone or other personal
communication systems would produce electromagnetic interference with signal
transmission or reception unless the applicant provides a replacement signal to
the affected party that will restore reception to at least the level present
before operation of the wind energy system.
   (B)   No utility grade wind energy system shall be installed in any location
within the line of sight of an existing microwave communications list where
operation of the wind energy system is likely to produce electromagnetic
interference in the link’s operation, unless the interference is insignificant.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.235  SHADOW FLICKER.
   (A)   The applicant shall conduct an analysis on potential shadow flicker at
occupied structures. The analysis shall identify the locations of shadow
flicker that may be caused by the project and the expected duration of the
flicker at these locations from sunrise to sunset over the course of a year.
   (B)   The analysis shall identify problem areas where shadow flicker may
affect the occupants of the structures and describe measures that shall be
taken to eliminate or mitigate the problems.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.236  DECOMMISSIONING.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan.
   (B)   The plan shall include:
      (1)   The anticipated life of the project;
      (2)   The estimated decommissioning costs, net of salvage value in
current dollars;
      (3)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration; and
      (4)   The anticipated manner in which the project will be decommissioned
and the site restored.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
§ 155.237  COMPLAINT RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The applicant shall develop a process to resolve complaints from
nearby residents concerning the construction or operation of the project. The
process may use an independent mediator or arbitrator and shall include a time
limit for acting on a complaint. The process shall not preclude the local
government from acting on a complaint.
   (B)   During construction, the applicant shall maintain and make available
to nearby residents a telephone number where a project representative can be
reached during normal business hours.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2009)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 155.240  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to promote the public health, safety, and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the township by regulating the use of solar
generated power systems.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 155.241  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES).  A system consisting of a device or combination
of devices, structures or parts thereof, that collect, transfer or transform
solar radiant energy into thermal, chemical or electrical energy, excluding
systems that substantially rely on mirrors or similar technologies to focus
solar radiant energy onto a considerably smaller area, and sometimes referred
to as “concentrated solar power” systems or “CSP” systems.
      (1)   SMALL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SMALL SES). A solar energy system that
relies on roof mounted and/or ground mounted collection systems that have a
total cumulative surface area of no more than 2,000 sq. ft. A SMALL SES
typically serves a single residence unit, agricultural operation, business or
other singular facility, located on the same lot as the SMALL SES.
      (2)   MEDIUM SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (MEDIUM SES).  A solar energy system
that relies on roof mounted and/or ground mounted collection systems that have
a total cumulative surface area of more than 2,000 sq. ft. but not more than
10,000 sq. ft. A MEDIUM SES commonly serves multiple dwellings, businesses and/
or other facilities, all on a single lot on which the system is located and may
serve users on other lots.
      (3)   LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (LARGE SES).  A solar energy system that
relies on roof mounted and/or ground mounted collection systems that have a
total cumulative surface area of more than 10,000 sq. ft. and/or is used
principally to provide service to customers not located on the same lot as the
LARGE SES, irrespective of the cumulative area of the panels. A LARGE SES
commonly serves multiple dwellings, businesses and/or other facilities, all on
a single lot on which the system is located and may serve users on other lots
including in association with energy utility providers.
      (4)   SELF-CONTAINED ENERGY SYSTEMS.  Solar energy systems that do not
exceed four square feet in total solar collector panel area and intended to
provide energy to operate a device to which such panel is attached such as in
the case of a panel powering an exterior light or an attic fan.
      (5)   SOLAR COLLECTION PANELS.  Panels and/or tiles comprised of
semiconductor devices and typically referred to as photovoltaic cells, which
collect and convert solar energy directly into electricity. Ground mounted
solar collection panels are panels attached to the ground by a pole, metal
frame or other similar support structure.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 9-11-2019)
§ 155.242 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES).
   (A)   Compliance with district regulations. A solar energy system (SES)
shall comply with the regulations of the district in which it is located as
provided otherwise by this section.
   (B)   Small solar energy systems (small SES).
      (1)   Small SES authorization, review and approval procedures. A small
SES is a permitted accessory use/structure in all districts. Small SES shall be
subject to Zoning Administrator approval. An application for a small SES shall
include all information required by this chapter, including the delineation of
all SES structures and facilities, and all structures on adjacent properties
within 50 feet of a shared lot line.
      (2)   Small SES general provisions. Small SES collection panels shall be
placed such that concentrated solar radiation or solar glare shall not be
directed onto nearby properties and public roads.  The applicant shall submit
documentation to verify compliance with this requirement.  When deemed
necessary, the Zoning Administrator may require a report from a qualified
person with documented training, certification and/or licensing in the
generation of glare associated with SES, including training in the use of
computer software designed to assess glare potential, attesting to the glare
impact on nearby properties and public roads.
      (3)   Small SES roof-mounted systems. No system part of a small SES roof-
mounted system shall exceed the height restriction in the defined zoning
district. In addition, the SES measured to the ground below shall not exceed
the building height restriction of the district in which it is located.
      (4)   Small SES ground-mounted systems.
         (a)   Small SES ground-mounted collection panel systems and associated
equipment are prohibited in a front yard and shall be set back a minimum of 15
feet from all side and rear lot lines.
         (b)   Small SES ground-mounted collection panel systems and associated
equipment shall not exceed 15 feet in height as measured from the ground below.
         (c)   If a ground mounted small SES ceases to operate or is abandoned
for six months, or is deemed by the Building Inspector to be unsafe or not
consistent with the building code, the applicant shall repair and restore the
system to good working order within 30 days of notification by the Zoning
Administrator, or otherwise remove the system in its entirety including posts,
equipment, panels, foundations and other features and restore the ground to its
preconstruction state. The Zoning Administrator may permit a repair period
greater than 30 days if the Zoning Administrator determines a longer period is
necessary due to conditions not within the control of the applicant.
   (C)   Medium solar energy systems (medium SES).
      (1)   Medium SES authorization, review and approval procedures. A medium
SES is permitted as an accessory use only, and only in the C-Commercial, IND-
Industrial and AR-Agricultural Districts. A medium SES shall be subject to the
site plan approval according to §§
155.095 through
155.101 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Medium SES general provisions.
         (a)   Medium SES collection panels shall be placed such that
concentrated solar radiation or solar glare shall not be directed onto nearby
properties and public roads. The applicant shall submit a report to the
Planning Commission, prepared by a qualified person with documented training,
certification and/or licensing in glare associated with SES including training
in the use of computer software designed to assess glare potential, attesting
to the glare and radiation impact on nearby properties and public roads and
verifying compliance with this section.
      (3)   Medium SES roof-mounted systems. No part of a medium SES roof-
mounted system shall extend more than six feet above the roof surface directly
below such system part but in no case shall the total height of the SES,
measured to the ground below, exceed the building height restriction of the
district in which it is located.
      (4)   Medium SES ground-mounted systems.
         (a)   Yard and setback restrictions.
            1.   Within the C-Commercial and IND-Industrial Districts, ground-
mounted collection systems and associated equipment are prohibited in a front
yard and shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from all side and rear lot
lines. The setback shall be increased to 40 feet along those segments of a
shared lot line where the adjacent lot is in an Agricultural or Residential
District.
            2.   Within the AR-Agricultural and IND-Industrial Districts,
ground mounted collection panels  and associated equipment are permitted in
front, side and/or rear yards provided such systems and equipment shall be back
a minimum of 15 feet from side and rear lot lines and 100 feet from a front lot
line. The side and rear yard setback shall be increased to 40 feet along those
segments of a shared lot line where the adjacent lot is in an Agricultural or
Residential District.
         (b)   Ground-mounted solar collection panels shall not exceed 18 feet
in height.
         (c)   In the case of ground mounted solar panels located on a lot that
is adjacent to a lot in an Agricultural or Residential District, including on
the opposite side of a public road, screening shall be provided along such
shared lot lines. The screening shall consist of evergreen trees of a minimum
of six feet in height at the time of planting and with a projected growth rate
of a minimum of six inches per year and to a minimum projected height of 20
feet and spaced no greater that 12 feet apart measured on-center. The site plan
shall specify the proposed plant material according to common name, botanical
name, and minimum plant size. All plant material shall be maintained in a
healthy condition to provide the intended screening, shall be permitted to grow
according to its natural habit, and shall be replaced upon death or disease.
            1.   In the case where a dwelling is present within 75 feet of a
shared lot line, a second row of tree plantings shall be provided and placed no
greater than 12 feet from the first row as measured on-center, with the second
row of trees positioned in a staggered formation to the first row to have trees
spaced at no greater than six feet on-center as viewed from the shared lot
lines.
            2.   Required screening need not be in the immediate area of the
panels that the plantings are intended to screen if the planting locations
provided for the intended screening effect.  No tree shall be located within
five feet of the lot line.
            3.   The Planning Commission may decrease the number of required
plantings, required plant spacing and/or planting height requirements by a
maximum 50% where specific conditions warrant such modifications, such as, by
example, the adjacent property is vacant and not likely to be developed within
the next three years based on nearby development trends during the preceding
three years, where natural features are present that serve to assist in the
screening of the panels such as topographic or vegetative conditions, or where
existing structures will assist in the screening  of the panels.  In no case
shall required screening along a public road right-of-way be reduced.
         (d)   Ground-mounted medium SES shall comply with the small SES
requirements regarding cessation of operations, abandonment and/or disrepair.
         (e)   Fencing that may be installed as part of a ground-mounted medium
SES shall be exempt from the fence height restrictions of this subchapter,
including § 4.10, subject to site plan review, but in no case shall such
fencing exceed seven feet in height. Where fencing is to be erected in excess
of five feet in height, a minimum of 50% of the required tree plantings shall
be on the exterior side of the fencing. Where fencing is to restrict the free
flow of air by more than 10% opacity of the fence, the Planning Commission may
require additional vegetative screening measures to minimize the visual impact
of such fencing. If fencing is proposed, fencing details shall be submitted as
part of the required site plan.
         (f)   Decommissioning of a system after useful life.
            1.   Plans for medium SES shall include a decommissioning and final
land reclamation plan after anticipated useful life or abandonment or
termination of the project, including evidence of an agreement with the
property owner that ensures proper final removal of power equipment within six
to 12 months of decommissioning.
            2.   A performance bond in an amount sufficient to cover the cost
of decommissioning of the system and restoration of the construction site shall
be posted by the applicant prior to commencement of any construction activity.
   (D)   Large solar energy systems (large SES).
      (1)   Large SES authorization, review and approval procedures. Large SES
are permitted as a special land use only, and only in Agricultural Residential
Districts, Commercial Districts, and Industrial Districts by special land use
permit. Large SES shall comply with special land use application, review and
approval provisions of §§
155.130 through
155.136 of the Code of Ordinances, including site plan review.
      (2)   Large SES general provisions. Large SES shall comply with site
development standards of subsection (C) for medium SES.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide a performance guarantee subject to
review and approval of the Township Attorney. The performance guarantee shall
be posted prior to the building permit being issued.
   (E)   Self-contained SES. Self-contained SES are permitted in all districts
and may be erected without the issuance of a zoning permit, subject to the
restriction of this section.
      (1)   Heights. Self-contained solar energy systems shall not exceed the
height restriction in the defined zoning district, in addition the SES measured
to the ground below, shall not exceed the building height restriction of the
district in which it is located. In the case of roof-mounted self-contained
SES, no system part of the SES shall extend more than four feet above the roof
surface directly below such system part, but in no case shall the total height
of the SES measured to the ground below exceed the building height restriction
of the district in which it is located.
   (F)   Exempt SES. The following is exempt from the regulations of this
section: roof-mounted SES that function as shingles or otherwise shingle-like
in general character.
   (G)   Decommissioning of a system after useful life.
      (1)   Plans for large SES shall include a decommissioning and final land
reclamation plan after anticipated useful life or abandonment or termination of
the project, including evidence of an agreement with the property owner that
ensures proper final removal of power equipment within six to 12 months of
decommissioning.
      (2)   A performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit, cash, etc. in an
amount sufficient to cover the cost of decommissioning of the system and
restoration of the construction site shall be posted by the applicant prior to
commencement of any construction activity.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 9-11-2019)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 155.250  CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created a Zoning Board of Appeals, which
shall perform its duties and exercise its powers and jurisdiction, as provided
in the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., and by certain
provisions of this subchapter; to the end that the objectives of this
subchapter are observed, public safety, morals, and general welfare secured,
and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of five members appointed
in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq. The term of each member shall be three years and until a
successor has been appointed and qualified, which successor must be appointed
not more than one month after the expiration of the preceding term.
      (2)   One member of the Board shall be a member of the Planning
Commission. One member of the Township Board may also be a member of the Board.
Members from the Township Board and from the Planning Commission shall have
terms limited to their respective other official terms or to such lesser period
determined by resolution of the Township Board at the time of appointment.
      (3)   No employee of the township shall be a member of the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
      (4)   Vacancies of the Board for unexpired terms shall be filled for the
remainder of the term.
      (5)   Members of the Board may be removed by the Township Board for
misconduct in office upon written charges and after public hearing.
   (C)   Alternate members.
      (1)   The Township Board may appoint not more than two alternate members
to the Zoning Board of Appeals for the same term as regular members. If two
alternate members have been appointed, they may be called on a rotating basis,
as they are available to sit as regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
in the absence of a regular member.
      (2)   An alternate member may also be called to serve in the place of a
regular member when such member has abstained for reasons of conflict of
interest or in the case of an absence of 30 days or more, or absence from two
or more consecutive meetings. The alternate member having been appointed shall
serve in the case until a final decision has been made.
      (3)   The alternate member shall have the same voting rights as a regular
member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. An alternate member shall only serve to
discuss or vote upon a case in the absence of or upon the declaration of a
conflict of interest of a regular member.
   (D)   Procedures. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix rules and
regulations to govern its procedures.
   (E)   Quorum. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not conduct business unless
a majority of the membership of the Zoning Board of Appeals is present,
including alternates when sitting as a regular member.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.251  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to hear and decide,
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, applications for
interpretations of this chapter, and may make decisions on any other questions
on which the Board is authorized by this chapter or the Zoning Act being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to pass. In exercising all of its powers, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall apply the standards  of §
155.253.
   (B)   When there is any question as to the location of any boundary line
between districts, upon a request for an interpretation of the zoning maps, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall establish the boundary based upon said maps and
all available information relating thereto, and shall establish such boundaries
in such ways as to carry out the intent and purposes of this chapter and the
Master Plan.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by any
administrative official or body charged with the enforcement of any provisions
of this chapter.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act upon all questions as may arise
in the administration of this chapter, including the interpretation of the
language of this chapter.
   (E)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be permitted to hear appeals
from special land use decisions.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.252  APPLICATION AND HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be submitted in
accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who
will review the application for validity, then transmit it to the Zoning Board
of Appeals. Applications not meeting the requirements shall be returned to the
applicant for completion.
      (2)   A valid application for to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
consist of the following:
         (a)   Five copies of a site plan drawn to scale which is sufficient to
describe the nature of the request, if applicable;
         (b)   A completed application form, as provided by the township;
         (c)   Payment of a fee in accordance with a fee schedule, as
determined by the Township Board from time to time; and
         (d)   A legal description of the entire property which is the subject
of the request.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall give written notice of the hearing
to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the
property to be affected by an application for a variance at least five days
prior to the hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall maintain satisfactory
evidence that notices have been mailed.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.253  STANDARDS OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Granting of non-use variances. A non-use variance may be allowed by
the Zoning Board of Appeals only in cases where there is reasonable evidence of
practical difficulty in the official record of the hearing and that all of the
following conditions are addressed.
      (1)   The variance will not be significantly detrimental to adjacent
property and the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   The variance will not impair the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
      (3)   The immediate practical difficulty causing the need for the
variance request was not created by any action of the applicant or predecessor.
      (4)   The variance requested is the variance necessary to meet the
purpose and intent of the chapter and to meet the other standards of review in
this section.
      (5)   Would a lesser relaxation than applied for give substantial relief
to the owner of the property involved and be more consistent with justice to
other property owners, and whether relief can be granted in such fashion that
the spirit of the chapter will be observed and public safety and welfare
secured.
   (B)   Granting of use variances. A use variance may be allowed by the Zoning
Board of Appeals only in cases where there is reasonable evidence of
unnecessary hardship in the official record of the hearing that all of the
following conditions are addressed.
      (1)   The proposed use will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
      (2)   The variance will not be significantly detrimental to adjacent
property and the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   The variance will not impair the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
      (4)   The unnecessary hardship causing the need for the variance request
was not created by any action of the applicant or predecessor.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 6- -2011)
§ 155.254  DECISIONS OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The concurring vote of at least a majority of the total number of
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of any administrative official or body or to decide
in favor of the appellant on any matter.
   (B)   All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall become final after
the date of the meeting at which the decision is made and the record of the
meeting shall be the written record of said meeting.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; Ord. 18-01, passed 8-8-2018)
§ 155.255  RESUBMISSION.
   (A)   No variance request, or substantially similar request, which has been
decided by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be submitted for reconsideration
within a one-year period from the date of the original application.
   (B)   After the one-year period, the application will only be considered if
the applicant first demonstrates the following:
      (1)   The conditions involving all of the reasons for the original denial
have been significantly altered; or
      (2)   New conditions or circumstances exist which change the nature of
the original request.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.270  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Zoning Administrator, or such other township official as may be designated by
the Township Board by resolution, who shall be appointed by the Township Board.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.271  DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning Administrator, Building
Inspector, or such other township official as may be designated by the Township
Board by resolution, who shall in no case issue any building permit, nor grant
any occupancy permit where the proposed structure, alteration, or use would be
in violation of any provisions of this chapter, except under written order of
the Board of Appeals or a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall investigate any alleged violation of
this chapter as may be discovered. If a violation is found to exist, the Zoning
Administrator shall serve written notice upon the owner to cease said violation
as provided by law. If said owner fails to act diligently to correct said
violation and does not correct such violation within 30 days or any extension
of time required by the Zoning Administrator, the township shall serve notice
upon the owner and the township shall determine what method of enforcement is
warranted.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall inspect all new construction or
alterations at the time footings are placed, when framing is underway, and at
the completion of the construction or alterations authorized. The Building
Inspector shall make such additional inspections deemed necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall
make periodic inspections of the township to ascertain that all the
requirements of this chapter are being complied with.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector shall keep records of
all inspections, applications, and permits issued, with a notation of all
special conditions involved. They shall file with the township and safely keep
copies of all plans, other than for single-family dwellings, and records of all
fees submitted with applications. The same shall form a part of the records of
the township and shall be available to the Township Board and all other
officials of the township.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.272  ZONING COMPLIANCE AND BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No structure or part thereof shall be constructed, reconstructed,
erected, moved, enlarged, or altered, nor shall any use on any property be
commenced or changed to another use, until a zoning compliance permit has been
granted by the Zoning Administrator. Application for a zoning compliance permit
shall be filed by the owner or an agent of the owner and it shall state the
intended use of the structure and of the land. The application shall be
accompanied by building plans and specifications, a plot plan, a site plan
where required, and such other information as may be necessary to provide for
the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn to scale and shall show dimensions in figures.
Plans shall be signed by the person preparing them and by the owner of the
property or building involved. A fee as established by the Township Board from
time to time to defray the costs of administration and inspections shall
accompany any plans or applications for a zoning compliance or building permit.
   (C)   A zoning compliance permit shall only be issued if the plans and
intended use conform in all respects to the provisions of this chapter and all
other applicable township ordinances. All zoning compliance permits shall
expire one year from their date of issuance.
   (D)   A zoning compliance permit shall be issued prior to the issuance of
any required building permit. A copy of all approved building permits shall be
sent to the Assessor.
   (E)   A zoning compliance permit shall not be issued until the owner
provides sufficient documentation that the lot involved has been created in
conformance with this chapter and/or state and township subdivision regulations
and all other applicable township ordinances.
   (F)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for any dwelling unit,
construction plans, including a plot plan, adequate to illustrate compliance
with the requirements of this chapter shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. If the dwelling unit is a manufactured home, there shall also be
submitted adequate evidence to assure that the dwelling complies with the
standards applicable to manufactured homes set forth in this section.
   (G)   All manufactured homes shall meet the standards for manufactured home
construction contained in the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development Regulations entitled “Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards” effective June 15, 1976, as amended. All other dwellings shall meet
the requirements of the construction code adopted by the township and the
Michigan Construction Code for snow loading.
   (H)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all plans and specifications
within a reasonable period of time, prior to taking appropriate action thereon.
   (I)   The zoning compliance permit and building permit shall be displayed at
all times so as to be visible from a public street at the site where authorized
action is being undertaken.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 5- -2010)
§ 155.273  PROPERTY SURVEYS.
   If the Zoning Administrator, in the performance of his or her duties under
this chapter (or the Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, and Township
Board pursuant to their zoning review and approval powers under this chapter),
shall deem it necessary that a survey be done by a professional surveyor or
engineer for property at issue (including a written drawing and stakes set on
the property boundaries or corners) in order to ensure that all requirements of
this chapter will be met, such survey and related information may be required
by the township and shall be paid for and provided by the property owner or
applicant and no building permit or other township permit(s) shall be issued or
approved until and unless such survey and related information has been provided
to the township.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.274  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No land shall be used and no building hereafter erected or altered shall be
occupied or used for any purpose until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the Building Inspector stating that the premises or building
complies with the provisions of approved plans and all ordinances of the
township. Where any special land use or site plan review conditions are
applicable, said conditions shall be stated on the certificate of occupancy. A
record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the township.
A fee as established by the Township Board from time to time shall be charged
for each occupancy permit. A copy shall be sent to the Township Clerk and
Assessor.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.275  ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Initiation.
      (1)   An amendment to the zoning map, which is adopted as part of this
code of ordinances, may be initiated by the Township Board or Planning
Commission on a motion by either body, or by a verified application of one or
more of the owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be
changed, or by a person authorized in writing by the property owner to submit
such application.
      (2)   An amendment to the text of the Zoning Ordinance may be initiated
by the Township Board or Planning Commission on a motion by either body or by a
verified application of any person affected by the provision requested to be
changed.
      (3)   Any proposed use not addressed by this chapter shall be subject to
the provisions of this section as an amendment to the chapter. The Township
Board, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall determine the
appropriate district and whether the use shall be a permitted use or special
land use.
   (B)   Procedure for changes.
      (1)   Applications for zoning ordinance map or text amendments shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission upon forms supplied by the township, along
with the following:
         (a)   A legal description of the property to be affected by a proposed
change to the zoning map or a typewritten copy of the proposed text amendment,
including specific references to the portions of the existing ordinance section
and language;
         (b)   A drawing or map showing, at a suitable scale, the property to
be changed by an amendment to the zoning map and the location of properties
within 500 feet of the property affected by the amendment;
         (c)   Payment of a fee in accordance with a fee schedule, as
determined by the Township Board from time to time; and
         (d)   Any other information which may be required by the township.
      (2)   Before submitting its recommendation to the Township Board, the
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing, notice to be given
in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall transmit a summary of comments
received at the public hearing, along with the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, to the Township Board. The Township Board may hold additional
hearings if it considers it necessary, in accordance with the requirements of
the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
      (4)   In considering a recommendation for an amendment to the zoning map,
the Planning Commission shall consider:
         (a)   All possible uses within the area requested to be re-zoned and
not just those that the property owner requests;
         (b)   The purposes for which property in the immediate vicinity is
zoned;
         (c)   The Master Plan;
         (d)   The character of the zoning district, its particular suitability
for particular uses, and the general trend and character of building and
population development; and
         (e)   The public services available and the public services needed for
the zoned use and the proposed use.
   (C)   Resubmission.
      (1)   Whenever a proposed zoning map or text change has been denied by
the Township Board, the Planning Commission shall not reconsider a map or text
change for at least one year following the date of the original application
unless the Planning Commission finds that at least one of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   The conditions involving all of the reasons for the original
denial have been significantly altered; or
         (b)   New conditions or circumstances exist which change the nature of
the original request.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission has conducted a public hearing on the
same application, the Planning Commission shall not process an application or
conduct a hearing unless it finds that the requirements of division (C)(1)(a)
or (C)(1)(b) above are satisfied.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015; amended 4- -2010)
§ 155.276  SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   No action shall be taken on any application for any variance,
ordinance amendment, site plan review, special land use, or any other review
required by this chapter by the Township Board, Planning Commission, or Board
of Appeals, unless or until fees connected with such application, as determined
from time to time by the Township Board, have been paid.
   (B)   Where structures have begun construction or are occupied before any
required approval is granted, the fees for such application approval shall be
doubled. Payment of such fees shall not relieve any person from fully complying
with the requirements of this chapter, nor shall it prohibit the township from
pursuing the enforcement procedures and remedies provided by this chapter.
   (C)   The Planning Commission and/or Township Board may require the
submission of a reasonable review fee which the township may use to pay for the
services of a qualified attorney, engineer, planner, inspector, or other
individual which the Planning Commission and/or Township Board deem necessary.
Said fees shall only be used for the review of any proposal covered under the
terms of this chapter. All such fees shall be held in escrow and any unused
fees shall be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.277  PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, and Township Board
are empowered to require a performance bond, letter of credit or cashier’s
check, or other suitable negotiable security, in an amount equal to the
estimated cost of improvements associated with the project.
   (B)   A performance guarantee shall be deposited with the Township Clerk at
the time of the issuance of the permit authorizing the activity or project to
ensure faithful completion of the improvements indicated with the approved site
plan; if the improvement(s) is not completed, or is partially completed, the
performance bond or cashier’s check shall be forfeited in the amount necessary
to complete the improvement.
   (C)   The township shall rebate a proportional share of cash deposits only
when requested by the depositor, based on the percent of improvements
completed, as attested to by the depositor and verified by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   In cases where the improvements indicated with the approved site plan
have not been completed in accordance with the approval granted, the amount of
the aforementioned performance guarantee may be used by the township to
complete the required improvements. The balance, if any, shall be returned to
the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.278  RECORDING OF MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals may video tape or
otherwise record its public hearings or other meetings. A copy of the tape or
recording shall be provided to any person requesting a copy. The fee for the
copying shall be paid by the person requesting it. For any appeal taken of a
township action by an applicant or other person, a transcription of the tape,
if provided, by a certified court reporter shall be required and provided to
the township at no cost by the appellant.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
§ 155.279  COMPLAINTS ABOUT PHYSICAL CHANGES.
   The Zoning Administrator/Building Official shall undertake the following
actions with respect to complaints about physical changes made to properties
within the township made by a person other than the owner.
   (A)   Observe the property in question;
   (B)   Determine whether the complaining party knows when the physical
changes were made;
   (C)   Determine whether the complaining party has photographs or other
documentary evidence as to the property prior to and after the alleged physical
change;
   (D)   Research in the files of the Zoning and Building code office for
permits;
   (E)   If the complaint respects an entirely new building or an addition to a
building, notify the township’s Assessing Officer of the change so as to permit
him or her to determine whether to adjust the assessment of the property; and
   (F)   Undertake an evaluation with the Township Attorney as he or she may
deem necessary as to whether the complaint can be established in Cass County
District Court by a preponderance of the evidence with the following
considerations:
      (1)   Whether there is photographic and/or documentary evidence;
      (2)   Whether the lack of documentary evidence can establish a violation
(as in the case of no permit);
      (3)   If it appears that the physical change occurred more than 18 months
prior to the complaint, and there has been no intervening complaint, the case
is likely to be dismissed for “laches”;
      (4)   Whether testimony as to the type and time of construction is
available;
      (5)   If the Zoning Administrator/Building Official did not personally
observe the construction, the Zoning Administrator is required by Michigan
statute to request permission of the Township Attorney to issue a citation;
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator and Township Attorney may consult in terms
of whether a Municipal Civil Infraction Violations Bureau or a court citation
should be issued; and
      (7)   The potential for obtaining a court order establishing that the
zoning violation is a nuisance per se, subject to abatement.
   (G)   If the complaining party requests a determination as to disposition of
the complaint, the Zoning Administrator may provide such information so long as
it is a public record and is not covered by the attorney-client privilege.
(Res. 19-06, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any building or structure which is erected, moved, placed,
reconstructed, razed, extended, enlarged, altered, maintained, or used; or any
use of a lot or land which is begun, maintained, or changed in violation of any
term or provision of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of this chapter constitutes a municipal civil
infraction. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to
comply with any provision of this chapter, or any permit or approval issued
hereunder, or any amendment thereof, or any person who knowingly or
intentionally aids or abets another person in violation of this chapter, shall
be in violation of this chapter and shall be responsible for a civil
infraction.
      (2)   The civil fine for a municipal civil infraction shall be not less
than $50 nor more than $100 for the first offense and not less than $200 for
subsequent offenses, in the discretion of the court, in addition to all other
costs, damages, expenses, and remedies provided by law.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation
of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months
of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter or similar
provision of this chapter for which the person admitted responsibility or was
adjudged to be responsible.
      (4)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   The duly authorized attorney for the township is empowered to
prosecute violations.
   (D)   (1)   Upon notice from the Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector,
or other such person as designated by resolution of the Township Board, that
any use is being conducted or that any work on any building or structure is
being prosecuted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or in an unsafe and
dangerous manner, that work or use shall be immediately stopped. The stop work
order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property
involved or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work; and shall
state the conditions, if any, under which the work or use will be permitted to
resume.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue to work in or about the structure or
building or use after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (E)   The Township Board and/or Township Supervisor may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate action or proceedings
to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any violation of this chapter. The rights
and remedies provided herein are cumulative and in addition to all other
remedies provided by law.
   (F)   Fines, penalties, or cost of enforcement, including reasonable
attorney fees, are collectable as a judgment or may be levied against the
property and collected as a property tax.
(Ord. passed 7-30-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
2    8-10-  Rezoning of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
     1977   36, Silver Creek Township.
3    8-10-  Rezoning of Lot 56 of Midway Subdivision, Section 4, Silver Creek
     1977   Township.
4    8-10-  Rezoning of Lot 1 of Wilson’s Subdivision, Section 36, Silver Creek
     1977   Township.
5    12-13- Rezoning at the southwest corner of the south one-half of the
     1978   southeast quarter of Section 32.
8    11-12- Rezoning of the north 100 feet of Lot 56 of Midway Subdivision,
     1980   Section 4, Silver Creek Township.
12-  8-8-   Conditional rezoning of 31606 Evergreen Street, Dowagiac, Michigan.
04   2012
14-  11-12- Rezoning properties located in Sections 25 and 36 in the township.
03   2014
21-  6-27-  Rezoning of 31115 Curran Beach Road, Dowagiac, Michigan.
03   2021
           
 
TABLE II:  AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
97-4          8-27-1997   Granting a franchise to Fruit Belt Electric
                          Cooperative.
Res. -        3-8-2000    Resolution concerning the financing of a future
                          project.
09-05         3-11-2009   Granting a franchise to Indiana Michigan Power
                          Company.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites      Code Section
15.231 et seq.      31.08
15.261 et seq.      31.08
24.201 et seq.      70.02,
                    50.135
41.721              91.20
41.722(2)(1)(f)     91.20
54.211              151.05
123.161—123.167   50.093
123.731—123.786   50.007
125.266L            155.202
125.271 et seq.     31.11,
                    155.205
125.281             155.198
125.286i            155.195
                    31.01,
125.321 et seq.     31.02,
                    31.10,
                    31.11
125.1361 et seq.    150.28
125.1501—125.1531 152.37
125.1508b(6)        152.37
                    150.02,
125.2301 et seq.    150.03,
                    150.04
125.2301—125.2350 155.082
125.2304            150.03
125.2305            150.02
125.2307            151.05,
                    155.082
125.2317            150.05,
                    155.082
                    31.01,
                    31.11,
                    155.004,
                    155.006,
                    155.007,
                    155.131,
                    155.134,
125.3101 et seq.    155.195,
                    155.198,
                    155.202,
                    155.205,
                    155.232,
                    155.250,
                    155.251,
                    155.275
                    31.01,
125.3801 et seq.    31.02,
                    31.10
141.101 et seq.     51.10
141.101—141.138   51.01
141.103             51.02
141.121             51.04
247.321—247.329   151.03
257.1 et seq.       70.03
257.1—257.82      70.03
257.223             70.03
257.225             70.03
257.228             70.03
257.243             70.03
257.244             70.03
257.255             70.03
257.256             70.03
257.3l0e            70.03
257.311             70.03
257.312             70.03
257.312a            70.03
257.324             70.03
257.325             70.03
257.326             70.03
257.328             70.03
257.601—257.601b  70.03
257.602—257.606   70.03
257.611—257.616   70.03
257.617a—257.622  70.03
257.624a—257.624b 70.03
257.625             70.03
257.625a            70.03
257.625m            70.03
257.904—257.904a  70.03
257.904e            70.03
257.905             70.03
259.431 et seq.     155.222,
                    155.229
259.481 et seq.     155.222,
                    155.229
286.471—286.474   155.006,
                    155.027
324.3101 et seq.    155.232
324.9101 et seq.    155.232
324.11501 et seq.   155.232
324.30101 et seq.   155.232
324.30301           155.232
324.32301 et seq.   155.232
324.32501 et seq.   155.232
324.35301 et seq.   155.232
324.36501 et seq.   155.233
324.80101—324.801090.25
324.81101—324.811470.04
324.82101—324.821570.04
333.1101 et seq.    155.006
333.26421 et seq.   155.061
333.26423(d)        155.006
333.26423(h)        155.006
333.26423(i)        155.006
333.7104(2)         33.18
436.1703            70.04
500.3102            70.04
560.101 et seq.     31.13
559.101—559.272   155.006
560.101—560.293   155.020
600.8396            30.02
600.8701 et seq.    32.18
600.8701—600.8735 10.02
764.9a—764.9e     10.10
764.9c              32.18
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        3-8-2000    TSO Table II
03-01    5-14-2003   50.175
13-01    1-9-2013    152.36
19-06    3-13-2019   155.279
19-22    11-13-2019  155.053
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2        8-10-1977   TSO Table I
3        8-10-1977   TSO Table I
4        8-10-1977   TSO Table I
5        12-13-1978  TSO Table I
                     152.01—
10       5-23-1979   152.19,
                     152.99
8        11-12-1980  TSO Table I
                     90.25,
84-1     6-13-1984   90.26,
                     90.99
                     150.01—
                     150.03,
                     150.05,
85-1     5-8-1985    150.06,
                     150.20—
                     150.37,
                     150.99
                     51.01—
89-1     9-13-1989   51.11,
                     51.14
90-2     8-8-1990    51.04
-        11-13-1991  51.11
                     151.01—
97-3     5-28-1997   151.08,
                     151.99
97-4     8-27-1997   TSO Table II
99-1     4-7-1999    51.04
                     152.30—
01-02    6-13-2001   152.34,
                     152.99
                     50.001—
                     50.007,
                     50.020—
                     50.030,
                     50.045—
                     50.048,
                     50.060—
                     50.072,
                     50.085—
01-03    8-8-2001    50.100,
                     50.115,
                     50.116,
                     50.130—
                     50.135,
                     50.150—
                     50.155,
                     50.170—
                     50.176,
                     50.999
                     50.007,
01-04    12-12-2001  50.022—
                     50.024
03-01    5-14-2003   50.175
03-02    7-2-2003    155.083
04-08    9-8-2004    32.01—
                     32.03
07-01    5-9-2007    91.20
07-03    8-8-2007    152.37
0901     1-14-2009   152.35,
                     152.99
0903     1-14-2009   50.068
09-05    3-11-2009   TSO Table II
                     51.04,
09-06    8-12-2009   51.12,
                     51.99
                     70.01-
09-08    8-12-2009   70.04,
                     70.99
09-07    9-9-2009    50.007,
                     50.999
09-09    9-9-2009    51.04,
                     51.13
                     155.004,
                     155.006,
                     155.020,
09-11    11-11-2009  155.025,
                     155.027,
                     155.030,
                     155.031
11-01    3-16-2011   32.15—
                     32.18
11-02    3-16-2011   30.01—
                     30.08
11-03    5-11-2011   155.006
11-04    5-11-2011   31.01—
                     31.13
12-01    2-8-2012    51.04
12-04    8-8-2012    TSO Table I
                     91.01—
12-05    8-8-2012    91.05,
                     91.99
14-02    7-9-2014    151.07
14-03    11-12-2014  TSO Table I
                     153.01—
                     153.08,
                     154.01—
                     154.08,
                     155.001—
                     155.007,
                     155.020—
                     155.039,
                     155.050—
                     155.061,
                     155.075—
                     155.084,
                     155.095—
                     155.101,
-        7-30-2015   155.115—
                     155.118,
                     155.130—
                     155.136,
                     155.150—
                     155.183,
                     155.195—
                     155.206,
                     155.220—
                     155.237,
                     155.250—
                     155.255,
                     155.270—
                     155.278,
                     155.999
                     90.01—
97-01    8-22-2015   90.11,
                     90.99
16-01    2-10-2016   155.079
16-02    11-9-2016   155.055
16-03    11-9-2016   155.079
16-04    11-9-2016   155.006,
                     155.082
17-01    5-10-2017   33.01—
                     33.06
17-02    5-10-2017   33.15—
                     33.23
17-03    5-10-2017   51.04
17-04    5-10-2017   155.006,
                     155.061
17-05    5-10-2017   Adopting Ordinance
17-06    9-13-2017   155.006,
                     155.150
18-01    8-8-2018    155.254
18-02    8-8-2018    155.006
                     110.01—
18-03    12-12-2018  110.03,
                     110.99
19-02    2-13-2019   91.30—
                     91.33
19-17    6-12-2019   155.083
                     155.078,
19-20    8-6-2019    155.150,
                     155.184
                     155.029,
19-01    9-11-2019   155.240—
                     155.242
20-26    12-9-2020   155.006,
                     155.031
21-02    1-13-2021   155.023
21-03    6-27-2021   TSO Table I
21-04    7-14-2021   91.50—
                     91.55
21-05    7-14-2021   91.40—
                     91.43
                     33.04,
021-06   10-13-2021  33.19,
                     152.35
                     151.01—
021-07   11-10-2021  151.08,
                     151.99
                    
 
 
