SPARTA TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-7, passed 10-10-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as “The Sparta Township Code”,
for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”, “this code”
or “code” may be substituted.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. A police officer, building inspector or
other designated official or employee of the township authorized by this code
to issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction
violation notices.
      BOARD. The Sparta Township Board of Trustees.
      CODE. The Sparta Township Code, as designated in §
10.01 of this chapter.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last; except that, if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall
be excluded; and, when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Kent, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Township of
Sparta, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the
township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the township and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE, THE STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Sparta, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township, any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the township;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board of
Trustees;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the
township;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any township
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the township offices.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section        of the Sparta Township
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...”. The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Sparta Township Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered               , which section reads
as follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the township’s Board
of Trustees. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§          through          ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction.
      (1)   Generally. For purposes of this section, the words MUNICIPAL CIVIL
INFRACTION shall mean an act or omission that is prohibited by an ordinance of
the township, but which is not a crime under the particular ordinance involved,
and for which civil sanctions, including, without limitation, fines, damages,
expenses and costs, may be ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236, Ch. 87, of
1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq. as amended, and Public Acts 12 through
26 of 1994, as amended. A municipal civil infraction is not a lesser included
offense of a violation of a township ordinance that is a criminal offense.
(Prior Code, § 40.001)
      (2)   General penalties and sanctions for violations of township
ordinances; continuing violations; injunctive relief.
         (a)   Unless a violation of an ordinance of the township is
specifically designated in the ordinance as a municipal civil infraction, the
violation shall be deemed to be a criminal misdemeanor.
         (b)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not
exceeding $500 (plus costs of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90
days, or both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the
violation by the ordinance involved.
         (c)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil
infraction shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by the ordinances
involved, plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized
under Public Act 236, Ch. 87, of 1961, as amended, Public Acts 12 through 26 of
1994, as amended, and other applicable laws.
            1.   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular
municipal civil infraction violation by an ordinance, the civil fine for a
municipal civil infraction violation shall be not less than $50, plus costs and
other sanctions, for each infraction.
            2.   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations
by a person of any requirement or provision of an ordinance. As used in this
section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or ordinance:
               a.   Committed by a person within any 24-month period (unless
some other period is specifically provided by an ordinance); and
               b.   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined
to be responsible.
            3.   Unless otherwise specifically provided by an ordinance for a
particular municipal civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a
repeat offense shall be as follows.
               a.   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense
shall be not less than $500, plus costs.
               b.   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense
or any subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $750, plus costs.
         (d)   A VIOLATION includes any act which is prohibited or made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense by an ordinance, and any omission or
failure to act where the act is required by an ordinance.
         (e)   Each day on which any violation of an ordinance continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
         (f)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the township may
bring an action for an injunction or other process against a person to
restrain, prevent or abate any violation of any township ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 40.002)
   (B)   Municipal civil infraction citation authorization.
      (1)   Title. This division (B) shall be known as “Municipal Civil
Infraction Citation Authorization”.
(Prior Code, § 40.051)
      (2)   Authorized persons. Unless prohibited by state law or unless
otherwise provided by specific provisions of a particular township ordinance to
the contrary, the following officials are hereby designated as the authorized
township officials to issue and serve municipal civil infraction citations for
violations of township ordinances which provide for a municipal civil
infraction for a violation thereof:
         (a)   The Chief of the township’s Fire Department;
         (b)   The township’s Building Inspector;
         (c)   The County Sheriff and all other Deputy County Sheriffs of said
county;
         (d)   The Township Supervisor;
         (e)   The Township Attorney; and
         (f)   The township’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 40.052)
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended.
         AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. A township official, police officer or
other personnel or agent of the township authorized by this code or any
ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction citations.
         MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the
defendant is alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
         MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice
prepared by an authorized township official, directing a person to appear in
court regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction
violation by the person cited.
         TOWNSHIP. Sparta Township.
(Prior Code, § 40.053)
      (4)   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement. A municipal civil
infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an authorized township
official of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court.
(Prior Code, § 40.054)
      (5)   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service.
Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by authorized
township officials as follows.
         (a)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within
a reasonable time after the citation is issued.
         (b)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the
District Court which has jurisdiction over the township.
         (c)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a
form approved by the state’s Court Administrator. The original citation shall
be filed with the District Court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by
the township and issued to the alleged violator as provided by § 8705 of the
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
         (d)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an
authorized township official shall be treated as made under oath if the
violation alleged in the citation occurred in the presence of the official
signing the complaint and if the citation contains the following statement
immediately above the date and signature to the official: “I declare under the
penalties of perjury that the statements above are true to the best of my
information, knowledge and belief”.
         (e)   An authorized township official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
         (f)   An authorized township official may issue a citation to a person
if:
            1.   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
            2.   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who
allegedly witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the
official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an
infraction and if the Township Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the
citation.
         (g)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an
authorized township official as follows.
            1.   Except as otherwise provided below, an authorized township
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
            2.   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting a copy
on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a
copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner of the
land, building or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Prior Code, § 40.055)
      (6)   Municipal civil infraction citations; contents.
         (a)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
         (b)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he
or she may do one of the following:
            1.   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by
mail, in person or by representation, at or by the time specified for
appearance;
            2.   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance, in person or by
representation; or
            3.   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by
doing either of the following:
               a.   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge
or District Court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by
an attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the
township; and
               b.   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge,
with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
         (c)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of
the following.
            1.   If the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
            2.   If the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is specified on
the citation.
            3.   A hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the township.
            4.   At an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or District Court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
            5.   At a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
         (d)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on
the municipal civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 40.056) (Ord. 96-5, passed 8-1-1996)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   EMPLOYEES
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
30.01   Confirmation of creation; powers and duties
   
30.02   Establishment
   
30.03   Membership, appointment and terms
   
30.04   Removal from office
   
30.05   Conflict of interest
   
30.06   Annual written report of activities
   
30.07   Preparation of capital improvements program
   
30.08   Compensation
   
30.09   By-laws
   
30.10   Assistance
   
30.11   Approval, ratification and reconfirmation
   
30.12   Authority
Historical Commission
   
30.25   Establishment
   
30.26   Proposed function
   
30.27   Appointment
   
30.28   Removal of members
   
30.29   Officers and Commissioners; duties
   
30.30   Subcommittees
   
30.31   Meetings
   
30.32   Finances and budgets
   
30.33   Annual report
   
30.34   Rules of procedure
Cross-reference:
   Construction Board of Appeals, see §§
150.01 through
150.06
   Zoning Board of Appeals, see §§
154.440 through
154.449
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 30.01 CONFIRMATION OF CREATION; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The township hereby confirms the establishment, creation and existence of
the Township Planning Commission, previously established by the Township Board,
with all the powers and duties as provided in the state’s Zoning Enabling Act
(Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended) and
the state’s Planning Enabling Act (Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Township Board hereby confirms the establishment, creation and
existence under the state’s Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of the Township Planning Commission as formerly
established under prior law.
   (B)   Members of the Planning Commission as of the effective date of this
subchapter shall, except for the member whose remaining term on the Planning
Commission shall be limited to his or her term on the Township Board, continue
to serve for the remainder of their existing terms so long as they continue to
meet all of the eligibility requirements for Planning Commission membership set
forth within the state’s Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.03 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members, who shall be
selected in accordance with the state’s Planning Enabling Act. One member of
the Township Board shall be a member of the Planning Commission. One Planning
Commission member shall be a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
membership of the Planning Commission shall be representative of important
segments and geography of the township to the extent practicable.
   (B)   One member of the Township Board shall be appointed to the Planning
Commission. The term of such member of the Township Board shall expire with his
or her term on the Township Board (unless appointed by the Township Board for a
shorter tenure).
   (C)   The Township Supervisor shall appoint members of the Planning
Commission, subject to approval by a majority vote of the members elected and
serving on the Township Board.
   (D)   The term of each Planning Commission member shall be for three years,
except for members serving because of their membership on the Township Board,
whose term shall be limited to the time they are members of the Township Board
and/or the period stated in the resolution or motion appointing them.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The Township Board may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance or non-feasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Failure of a member to disclose a known potential
conflict of interest as required herein constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (B)   Members of the Planning Commission who are absent without an approved
excuse from three consecutive Planning Commission meetings or four meetings
held within a calendar year may be subject to removal from the Planning
Commission by action of the Township Board.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A member of the Planning Commission should abstain from voting on a
matter if he or she has a bona fide conflict of interest, which conflict shall
be disclosed to the Planning Commission before the member casts a vote on the
matter.
   (B)   A conflict of interest shall include:
      (1)   The Planning Commission member or an immediate family member is
involved in a request for which the Planning Commission is asked to make a
decision. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER is defined as the Planning Commission
member’s spouse, the member’s or the member’s spouse’s children (including
adopted) and their spouses, grandchildren and their spouses, parents and step-
parents, brothers and sisters and their spouses, grandparents, parents in-law,
grandparents in-law or any person residing in the Planning Commission member’s
household;
      (2)   The Planning Commission member has a business or financial interest
in the property which is the subject of the request or has a business or
financial interest in the applicant’s company, agency or association;
      (3)   The Planning Commission member owns or has a financial interest in
any property immediately adjoining the property involved in the request; and
      (4)   There is a reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest, as
determined by the Planning Commission member declaring such conflict or by the
remaining members of the Planning Commission as provided below.
   (C)   In the event of a conflict of interest, the Planning Commission member
should individually decide to abstain from any discussion or votes relative to
the matter that is the subject of the conflict. Alternatively, the member
declaring a conflict may ask the remaining Planning Commission members to
decide if the Commissioner should abstain. Abstention is required if a majority
of the remaining Planning Commissioners agree that the Commission member may be
reasonably considered to have a conflict of interest or if there is a
reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest. The member declaring or
determined to have a conflict must step apart from the other Planning
Commission members and may absent himself or herself from the room during the
relevant discussion. He or she should not make any presentations to the
Planning Commission as a representative of the proposal.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.06 ANNUAL WRITTEN REPORT OF ACTIVITIES.
   The Planning Commission, through the Township Board representative, shall
make an annual written report of its activities to the Township Board. The
fiscal year of the Planning Commission shall be the same as the fiscal year of
the township.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.07 PREPARATION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.
   The Planning Commission shall be exempted from the requirement of Public Act
33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3865, requiring annual preparation and
submission to the Township Board of a capital improvements program. The
Township Board shall delegate the preparation of the capital improvements
program, separate from or as a part of the annual budget, to the Township
Supervisor. The capital improvement program shall be created with input from
the Planning Commission and subject to final approval and adoption by the
Township Board.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION.
   Each Planning Commission member shall be compensated as provided by
resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.09 BY-LAWS.
   The Planning Commission shall maintain by-laws for the transaction of its
business and shall keep a public record of its resolutions, transactions,
findings and determinations.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.10 ASSISTANCE.
   With the approval of the Township Board or the Township Supervisor, the
Planning Commission may be assisted by other professionals or township staff as
needed.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.11 APPROVAL, RATIFICATION AND RECONFIRMATION.
   The Township Board hereby confirms the transfer of all powers, duties and
responsibilities provided for zoning boards, zoning commissions or planning
commissions by the former state zoning enabling statutes, Public Act 110 of
2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., and other applicable zoning or
planning statutes to the Township Planning Commission as that body was
established decades ago. All official actions taken by all Township Planning
Commissions preceding the effective date of this subchapter are hereby
approved, ratified and reconfirmed. Any project, review or process taking place
at the effective date of this subchapter shall continue with the Planning
Commission confirmed and created by this subchapter, subject to the
requirements of this subchapter and shall be deemed a continuation of any
previous Township Planning Commission.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.12 AUTHORITY.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this subchapter, the Township
Planning Commission shall have such powers and authority as are delegated to it
by Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances, as amended, as well as the powers and
authorities specified in the state’s Zoning Enabling Act (Public Act 110 of
2006, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.) and the state’s Planning
Enabling Act (Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq.) for a township planning commission in the state.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-9-2011)
HISTORICAL COMMISSION
§ 30.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established the Township Historical Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.001) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
§ 30.26 PROPOSED FUNCTION.
   The purpose and functions of this Commission shall be as follows:
   (A)   To collect, catalogue and preserve historical documents and items
which may help to establish or illustrate the history of the township and its
inhabitants;
   (B)   To collect printed material, museum material and material objects
illustrative of life, conditions, events and activities of the past and present
for public display;
   (C)   To assist in the preservation of township records;
   (D)   To prepare information that may be used for the purpose of historical
documentation;
   (E)   To make use of news media to promote an understanding of township
history;
   (F)   To periodically promote events, displays or other activities which
will be of interest to the public and serve to educate the public concerning
the history of the township; and
   (G)   To undertake the preservation of historic buildings, monuments and
markers, and the establishment of markers for historical sites, buildings and
trails.
(Prior Code, § 2.002) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
§ 30.27 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall be composed of nine members, a majority of
whom shall be residents of the township. All members shall be appointed by a
majority vote of the Township Board to a three-year term (except as provided in
division (B) below). In the event there shall be a vacancy of any unexpired
term, the Township Board shall appoint a member to fill that vacancy for the
unexpired term. A member shall serve until a successor is appointed.
      (2)   Other individuals having an interest in historical work, upon
approval of the Commission, may participate by contributing their services to
the Historical Commission. They will be known as “Friends of the Historical
Commission” and considered as associate members. Associate members have no
voting rights.
   (B)   (1)   In order to increase the number of Historical Commission members
from five to nine pursuant to division (A) above, the Township Board shall
appoint four additional Historical Commission members.
      (2)   Of the four members so appointed, two shall be appointed to a term
of three years, one shall be appointed for a term of two years and one shall be
appointed for a term of one year.
      (3)   Thereafter, all terms shall be three years as provided in division
(A) above.
(Prior Code, § 2.003) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991; Ord. 02-05, passed 9-12-
2002)
§ 30.28 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Historical Commission, after a public hearing, shall be
removable by the Township Board for non-performance of duty, misconduct in
office upon written charges or for non-attendance at three consecutive
meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2.004) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
§ 30.29 OFFICERS AND COMMISSIONERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The officers of the Commission shall be Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary. There shall be nine Commissioners. All officers shall be elected
at the first organizational meeting of the Commission and, thereafter, at the
first regular meeting in each March. All officers shall be elected by a
majority vote of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.005)
   (B)   (1)   The Chairperson shall preside at all regular meetings and shall
prepare an agenda for all meetings.
      (2)   The Vice Chairperson shall carry out the duties of the Chairperson
in the absence of the Chairperson.
      (3)   The Secretary shall take minutes of all meetings of the Commission
and send copies of the same to Commission members and to the Township Board.
The Secretary shall provide for all notices required by law. All records of the
Commission shall be filed and kept by the Township Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2.006) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991; Ord. passed 5-13-2021;
Ord. 23-5, passed 4-13-2023)
§ 30.30 SUBCOMMITTEES.
   The Chairperson may appoint, or the Commission may elect, various
subcommittees from the Commission to expedite the work of the Commission. These
subcommittees shall recommend action to be taken by the Commission. These
subcommittees shall terminate when their services are no longer needed.
(Prior Code, § 2.007) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
§ 30.31 MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet at least once every month at such time as
determined by the Commission. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson
or any two members of the Commission. Notification of a special meeting of the
Commission must be made to all members a minimum of 18 hours prior to the
meeting. A quorum of five members shall be necessary to convene a regular or
special meeting for conducting all business of the Commission. All meetings are
open to the public and conducted in accordance with the state’s Open Meetings
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., and notice of all meetings of the
Commission or subcommittees shall be given as provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2.008) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991; Ord. 02-05, passed 9-12-
2002)
§ 30.32 FINANCES AND BUDGETS.
   (A)   The Township Board must approve the expenditure of all funds by the
Commission. All funds that are received by the Commission or given to the
Commission shall be turned over to the Township Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2.009)
   (B)   The Commission shall prepare an annual budget listing planned
expenditures and income and submit same to the Township Supervisor for approval
by the Township Board by February 1 of each year. All expenditures before being
made must all be approved by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § 2.010) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
§ 30.33 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Chairperson of the Commission shall submit an annual report listing all
activities and work accomplished during the previous year. This report is to be
filed with the Township Clerk by January 30 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 2.011) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
§ 30.34 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   All meetings of the Commission shall be conducted in accordance with the
Scott, Foresman Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised, by Scott, Foresman and
Company #15472, except herein specifically changed or as is required by law.
(Prior Code, § 2.012) (Ord. 3-91, effective 3-19-1991)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Ordinance Enforcement Officer
   
31.02   Pension plan
§ 31.01 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Ordinance Enforcement Officer. There is hereby established the office
of Ordinance Enforcement Officer within the township.
(Prior Code, § 43.001)
   (B)   Appointment. The Township Board is hereby authorized, by resolution,
at any regular meeting of the Board, to appoint any person or persons to the
office of Ordinance Enforcement Officer for such term or terms as may be
designated in said resolution. The Board may further, by resolution, remove any
person from said office, in the sole discretion of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 43.002)
   (C)   Enforcement of ordinances. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized to enforce all ordinances of the township, whether heretofore or
hereafter enacted, and whether such ordinances specifically designate a
different official to enforce the same or do not designate any particular
enforcing officer. Where a particular officer is so designated in any such
ordinance, the authority of the Ordinance Enforcement Officer to enforce the
same shall be in addition and supplementary to the authority granted to such
other specific officer. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall also be
designated as having the powers of the Zoning Administrator for purposes of
zoning ordinance enforcement. The authority of such Ordinance Enforcement
Officer shall be in addition and supplementary to the authority vested by the
Township Supervisor by statute. The ordinance enforcing authority of the
Township Supervisor and the other officers specifically designated in any
township ordinance shall continue in full force and effect and shall in no way
be diminished or impaired by the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 43.003)
   (D)   Duties. The ordinance enforcement duties herein authorized shall
include, among others, the following: investigation of ordinance violations;
serving notice of violations; issuing municipal civil infraction citations;
serving appearance tickets as authorized under Public Act 175 of 1927, Ch. 4,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.1 et seq., as amended; appearance in court or other
judicial proceedings to assist in the prosecution of ordinance violators; and
such other ordinance enforcing duties as may be delegated by the Township
Board.
(Prior Code, § 43.004) (Ord. 00-9, passed 12-14-2000)
§ 31.02 PENSION PLAN.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and cited as the “Sparta Township
Pension Plan Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 3.001)
   (B)   Establishment of pension plan. Pursuant to state law, the township
hereby creates and establishes an annuity or pension plan and program for the
pensioning of its officers and employees, and for such purposes, also hereby
authorizes the Township Supervisor and the Township Clerk to contract, in the
name of the Township Board, with any company authorized to transact such
business within the state for annuities or pensions.
(Prior Code, § 3.002)
   (C)   Coverage. The annuity or pension plans created, established and
contracted for under this section shall cover each person within the following
classes of officers, trustees and employees: all members of the Township Board
and full-time employees of the township not covered by collective bargaining
agreements.
(Prior Code, § 3.003)
   (D)   Township contributions; eligibility requirements; non-coverage.
      (1)   The township shall annually contribute 100% of that portion of the
premium or charges arising under such annuity or pension contract for each
person within the class of officers and employees enumerated in division (C)
above. Such contributions shall be secured from the general fund of the
township. Each person within such class of officers and employees shall be
responsible for the remainder of the premium or charges and the Township Clerk
is hereby authorized to deduct the same from each person’s pay, salary or
compensation and to apply the same to such person’s responsibility.
      (2)   Each employee who is employed on the effective date of the annuity
or pension plan shall be eligible for coverage on that day. Each employee who
later becomes employed by the township shall be eligible on the first day of
the month subsequent to the month of employment if the employee is covered in
the class of officers and employees enumerated in division (C) above. An
employee’s normal retirement date shall be the first day of the month
subsequent to his or her sixty-fifth birthday.
      (3)   Any person desiring not to be so covered shall give written notice
to the Township Clerk that he or she desires not to be covered and, if the
notice is received before the person has become covered under the contract, he
or she shall not be covered thereunder. If the notice is received after the
individual has become covered, his or her coverage under the contract shall
cease as provided for in the contract.
(Prior Code, § 3.004)
   (E)   Vesting. Each person so covered under the annuity or pension plan
shall have a vested right or interest in such plan from the date the plan
becomes effective for such person.
(Prior Code, § 3.005) (Ord. 92-3, passed 10-1-1992)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Fire Department Services and Response Fees
   
32.01   Purpose and intent
   
32.02   Fees; fire and emergency services
   
32.03   Responsibility for payment
   
32.04   Billing and payment
   
32.05   Collection
   
32.06   Supplemental provisions
Emergency Responses; Recovery of Expenses
   
32.20   Purpose
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.22   Liability for expense
 
   
32.99   Penalty
FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES AND RESPONSE FEES
§ 32.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to Public Act 33 of 1951, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 41.801 et seq., as amended, for the purpose of providing partial funding for
the township’s Fire Department by the collection of fees from those who utilize
certain emergency and other services provided by the Fire Department. Such fees
are intended to supplement, not replace, funding for the Fire Department from
general sources. The purpose of this subchapter is to recoup part of the cost
of certain emergency responses from the persons receiving the benefit of the
service and not to impose a penalty. While individuals who reside in or own
real property in the township contribute directly or indirectly to the
township’s revenues, those who simply travel through the township do not so
contribute. Accordingly, the fees for services other than false alarms will not
be required to be paid by township residents or township property owners under
this subchapter, as provided in §
32.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 85.001) (Ord. 02-07, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 32.02 FEES; FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   Fees as established by resolution of the Township Board shall hereafter be
due and payable to the township from a recipient of any of the following
enumerated services within the township from the township’s Fire Department:
   (A)   Automobile, truck or other vehicle fire;
   (B)   All motor vehicle accidents (except accidents in which one or more of
the drivers was operating under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or
controlled substance which are governed by §§
32.20 through
32.22 of this chapter);
   (C)   Any response of the township’s Fire Department to a fire alarm which
has been knowingly activated under conditions in which no actual emergency
situation exists; and
   (D)   Any response of the township’s Fire Department to a false alarm at a
property other than a single-family residential property in excess of three
such alarms within a 365-day period. For purposes of this section, a FALSE
ALARM means activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation or testing or the negligence of the user of
the alarm system, when an emergency situation does not exist.
(Prior Code, § 85.002) (Ord. 02-07, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 32.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   Persons or entities responsible for the fees established pursuant to §
32.02 of this chapter shall include:
      (1)   The owner, occupant and user of any motor vehicle involved in the
incident, whether or not such persons or entities were at fault for the
incident;
      (2)   Persons who receive assistance for personal injury, or who are
rescued, whether or not such persons were at fault for the incident;
      (3)   Any other persons causing the emergency or incident to which the
township’s Fire Department responds; and
      (4)   Insurers or guarantors for persons or entities in divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(3) above.
   (B)   All persons or entities responsible for payment pursuant to divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(4) above are jointly and severally liable to the township
and the township may seek to collect the fee from one or more of such persons
or entities.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, persons or
entities who reside in or own real property in the township at the time that
the services in §
32.02(A) or (B) of this chapter are provided shall not be responsible for the
fees for such services.
(Prior Code, § 85.003) (Ord. 02-07, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 32.04 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   The township shall promptly bill all persons or entities responsible for the
fee. The fee shall be paid within 30 days after the date of the statement.
(Prior Code, § 85.004) (Ord. 02-07, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 32.05 COLLECTION.
   The township may collect unpaid fees by action in any court of competent
jurisdiction and shall have any and all remedies provided by law for the
collection of said fees. If it is necessary to file suit to collect a fee, the
township shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney’s fees and other
expenses for all collection proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 85.005) (Ord. 02-07, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 32.06 SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter is supplemental to, and not in derogation of, remedies
available to the township, including remedies pursuant to other township
ordinances (including, without limitation,
Ch. 92 of this code of ordinances, §§
93.01 through
93.06 of this code of ordinances and §§
32.20 through
32.22 of this chapter). This subchapter is not intended to supersede or modify
any criminal or civil cause of action for property damage, personal injury or
violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 85.006) (Ord. 02-07, passed 11-14-2002)
EMERGENCY RESPONSES; RECOVERY OF EXPENSES
§ 32.20 PURPOSE.
   The township finds that a significant number of traffic arrests and traffic
accidents in the township involve drivers who operate a motor vehicle while
under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances. In
addition, the township finds that in traffic accidents involving drivers who
were operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages
and/or controlled substances there is a greater likelihood of personal injury
and property damage. As a result of these determinations, a greater operational
and financial burden is placed upon the township and/or the township’s Fire
Department and firefighting, rescue and other services by persons who are
operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/
or controlled substances.
(Prior Code, § 42.001) (Ord. 96-7, effective 8-21-1996)
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending and/or utilizing of firefighting,
emergency medical rescue and other services by the township or by a private
individual or corporation operating at the request or direction of the
township, to an incident resulting in an accident involving a motor vehicle in
which one or more of the drivers were operating the motor vehicle while under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled substance or the combined
influence of an alcoholic beverage and controlled substance.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the township or the township’s Fire Department or other police or fire
departments operating at the request or direction of the township or the
township’s Fire Department, and a private person or corporation operating at
the request or direction of the township or the township’s Fire Department,
when making an emergency response to the incident, including the costs of
providing police, firefighting, rescue and other services at the scene of the
incident. These costs further include all of the salaries and wages of the
township, the township’s Fire Department and other police or fire department
personnel responding to the incident, all salaries and wages of the township,
the township’s Fire Department and other police or fire department personnel
engaged in investigation, supervision and report preparation, all costs
connected with the administration and provision of all chemical tests of his or
her blood, breath or urine, and all costs related to any prosecution of the
person causing the incident.
(Prior Code, § 42.002) (Ord. 96-7, effective 8-21-1996; Ord. 03-02, passed 6-
12-2003)
§ 32.22 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE.
   (A)   Person responsible. Any person is liable for the expense of an
emergency response, if while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or
controlled substance, or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and
controlled substance, such person’s operation of a motor vehicle proximately
causes any incident resulting in an emergency response.
   (B)   Presumptions. For the purpose of this subchapter, a person is under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled substance or the combined
influence of an alcoholic beverage and controlled substance when his or her
physical or mental abilities are impaired to a degree that he or she no longer
has the ability to operate a motor vehicle with the caution characteristic of a
sober person of ordinary prudence. Further, it shall be presumed that a person
was operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of an alcoholic
beverage if a chemical analysis of his or her blood, urine, or breath indicates
that the amount of alcohol in his or her blood was 0.08 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine,
or, if the person is under the age of 21, the person has any bodily alcohol
content. As used in this division (B), ANY BODILY ALCOHOL CONTENT means either
of the following:
      (1)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more, but less
than 0.08 grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath or per
67 milliliters of urine; and
      (2)   Any presence of alcohol within a person’s body resulting from the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
   (C)   Charge against person. The expense of an emergency response shall be a
charge against the person liable for the expenses under this subchapter. The
charge constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible by the township for
incurring those costs in the same manner as in the case of an obligation under
a contract, expressed or implied.
   (D)   Cost recovery schedule. The Township Board shall, by resolution, adopt
a schedule of the costs included within the expense of an emergency response.
This schedule shall be available to the public from the Township Clerk.
   (E)   Billing. The Township Clerk, or his or her designee, may submit a bill
for these costs by first class mail or personal service to the person liable
for the expenses as enumerated under this subchapter. The bill(s) shall require
full payment in 30 days from the date of service.
   (F)   Failure to pay; procedure to recover costs. Any failure by the person
described in this subchapter as liable for the expenses of an emergency
response to pay the bill within 30 days of service shall be considered a
default. In case of default, the township may commence civil suit to recover
the expenses and any costs allowed by law.
(Prior Code, § 42.003) (Ord. 96-7, effective 8-21-1996; Ord. 03-02, passed 6-
12-2003; Ord. 03-05, passed 10-9-2003)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
32.22 of this chapter shall be deemed a civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 42.004) (Ord. 96-7, effective 8-21-1996)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Fiscal year
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   Fiscal year period established. Commencing in 1979, the fiscal year of
the township shall extend from April 1 of each year until March 31 of the
following year. Any preexisting township budget lawfully adopted by the
Township Board shall be proportionately extended to coincide with the foregoing
new fiscal year periods.
(Prior Code, § 1.001)
   (B)   Annual settlement day meeting. The annual settlement day meeting of
the Township Board shall hereafter be held on the fifteenth day of the last
month of the fiscal year of the township unless said day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday whereupon said meeting shall be held on the following
Monday which is not a legal holiday.
(Prior Code, § 1.002)
   (C)   Annual meeting of electors. The annual meeting of the electors of the
township, where the same has not been abolished, shall be held on the last
Saturday in the last month of the aforesaid fiscal year at such time and place
as is determined by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § 1.003) (Ord. 143, passed 2-14-1979)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   TRASH AND GARBAGE
      
51.   CAMP LAKE SANITARY SEWERS
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: TRASH AND GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Trash, junk on premises; definitions
   
50.02   Wastes, garbage and rubbish disposal
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 TRASH, JUNK ON PREMISES; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation.
      TRASH and JUNK. Used synonymously and each, as herein used, shall include
the following: used articles or used pieces of: iron, scrap metal, automobile
bodies or parts of machinery or junked or discarded machinery; used lumber
which may be used as a harborage for rats; ashes, garbage, industrial by-
products or waste; empty cans; food containers; bottles; crockery; utensils of
any kind; boxes; barrels; and all other articles customarily considered trash
or junk and which are not housed in a building.
(Prior Code, § 84.001)
   (B)   Trash, junk on premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to
accumulate, place, store or allow or permit the accumulation, placement or
storage of trash or junk on premises in the township, except in a lawful
sanitary landfill, a lawful junk yard or not to exceed eight days’ storage in
water-tight storage receptacles designed for the temporary accumulation of
trash. Such receptacles must have tight-fitting, water-tight covers.
(Prior Code, § 84.002) (Ord. II, passed 5-3-1973) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 WASTES, GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. Any operation that is licensed by the state or its
agencies as a sanitary landfill.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Sparta, Kent County, Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 60.001)
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish; licensed sanitary landfill. Any person,
corporation, partnership or entity that shall originate, transport, receive or
dispose of any rubbish, garbage or wastes of any kind including, but not
limited to, empty cans, food containers, broken or whole bottles, crockery or
utensils of any kind, automobile bodies or parts, old stoves, junk, parts of
any machinery, litter, chemicals, offal, ashes, industrial by-products or
wastes, clinkers or cinders that are placed, stored or disposed of ultimately
within the township shall be responsible to make sure that any and all such
wastes, garbage and rubbish is only placed or disposed of either temporarily or
permanently in a licensed sanitary landfill.
(Prior Code, § 60.002) (Ord. 146, passed 8-2-1979) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §
50.01 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be as set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violations, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §
50.01 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 84.003)
   (C)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §
50.02 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be as set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §
50.02 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 60.004) (Ord. II, passed 5-3-1973; Ord. 98-10, passed 9-10-1998)
CHAPTER 51: CAMP LAKE SANITARY SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Private sewage disposal
   
51.04   Building sewers and connections
   
51.05   Use of public sewers generally
   
51.06   Upsets
   
51.07   Amendment
   
51.08   Description of district
   
51.09   Calculation of units
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.20   Placement of unsanitary matter
   
51.21   Discharge to natural outlet
   
51.22   Compliance with chapter
   
51.23   Connections
   
51.24   Approval of plats
   
51.25   Assessment of payment of cost
Administration
   
51.40   Rates and charges
   
51.41   Receiving Fund
   
51.42   Enforcement
   
51.43   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.44   Annual audit
   
51.45   Appeals
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Sparta Township-Camp Lake Sanitary Sewer
and Rate Ordinance” and may be cited as such.
(Prior Code, § 70.001) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words, terms, phrases, formulas, chemicals and the like not included herein
shall have the meaning as defined in the latest version of the Glossary-Water
and Wastewater Control Engineering, prepared by the Joint Editorial Board
representing the American Public Health Association, the American Society of
Civil Engineers, the American Water Works Association, the Water Pollution
Control Federation or, if not defined therein, by Webster’s Dictionary.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Clean Water Act which
are used interchangeably in this chapter and refer to Pub. Law No. 92-500, as
adopted in 1972 and amended by Pub. Law No. 96-217 in 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., and all succeeding amendments.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person employed by the township as Administrator of the
system or his or her duly authorized agents, assistants or deputies.
   ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMIT. Any limits set by the village in lieu of the
promulgated national categorical pretreatment standards, for integrated
facilities in accordance with the combined wastestream formula as set by the
EPA.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A public sanitary sewer system
located in a right-of-way, easement, highway, street or public way which
crosses, adjoins or abuts upon the property and which passes not more than 200
feet at the nearest point from a structure in which sanitary sewage originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million (PPM) by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soils, waste and other drainage pipes
inside of the walls of the building and conveys said discharge to the building
sewer. The building sewer shall begin five feet outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The pipeline extending from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal, including all pumping equipment, structures
and appurtenances.
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit into which raw domestic sewage or other
untreated liquid waste is discharged, and from which the liquid seeps into the
surrounding soil or is otherwise removed.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. The measure of the oxygen consuming capacity
of inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater expressed as the
amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. COD does
not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does not
necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. COD is also known as OC
and DOC, oxygen consumed and dichromate oxygen consumed, respectively.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine added to
water or wastewater and the amount of residual chlorine remaining at the end of
a specified contact period. The demand for any given water varies with the
amount of chlorine applied, time of contact and temperature.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the township, or his or her duly authorized agents,
assistants or deputies.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMBINED WASTESTREAM. The wastestream at industrial facilities where
regulated process effluent is mixed with other sewage or wastes (either
regulated or unregulated) prior to treatment.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in the wastewater
treatment plan such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if said treatment facility was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutant to a substantial degree. Examples of such
additional pollutants may include: chemical oxygen demand; total organic
carbon; phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; nitrogen compounds; fats, oils and
greases of animal or vegetable origin.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of representative samples taken over a specific
time period and combined into one sample.
   CONNECTION or CHARGE. The charge for connection of a building sewer to the
public sewer. The CHARGE consists of a one-time fee payable to the township for
the privilege to connect to the public sewer and is intended to reimburse the
township for charges it pays for access to the public sewer system and waste
treatment facilities in accordance with the wastewater treatment, maintenance,
management and service agreement between the township and Algoma Township. This
CHARGE may also be in addition to all assessments levied against a parcel which
is located within a special assessment district and appearing on a special
assessment roll. This fee shall be considered separate from the fee charged to
all users for operation, maintenance and replacement of the system.
   CONNECTION INSPECTOR. The Health Department or the county’s Plumbing
Inspector or other person responsible for inspecting connections of building
sewers to the public sewer, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COUNTY. The County of Kent, Michigan.
   DISTRICT. The area serviced by the system, as outlined in §
51.08 of this chapter.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, sale and storage of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the wastestream and without consideration of
time.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The county’s Department of Public Health.
   INCOMPATIBLE OR NON-COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Pollutants which are not
compatible pollutants.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY. The township’s recovery from certain industrial
users of the system portions of any federal grant amount allocable to the
treatment of industrial waste from such users.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who may accidentally or intentionally discharge
industrial wastes to the system.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes, solids or semisolids from industrial
processes as distinct from domestic sewage.
   INSPECTION FEE. The fee charged by the connection inspector and payable by a
user for the cost of inspecting the connection of a building sewer to the
public sewer.
   INTEGRATED FACILITIES. Industrial facilities which combine process waste-
streams prior to treatment.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of the system, treatment processes or
operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the NPDES
permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
system in accordance with § 405 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., or any guidelines or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the system.
   LABORATORY DETERMINATION. The measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes in accordance with the methods contained
in the latest edition at the time of any such measurement, test or analysis of
Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Waste Water, a joint publication
of the American Public Health Association, the American Waterworks Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation in accordance with any other method
prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of pollutants from
point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone and the oceans
pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§§ 1251 et seq.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated in accordance with § 307(b)
and (c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., which applies to industrial users.
   NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT.
According to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., as amended, persons are prohibited from discharging pollutants into a
watercourse or natural outlet from a point source unless its discharge is
authorized by a permit issued either by the U.S. EPA or by an approved state
agency.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NON-DOMESTIC USERS. All users of the system, except residential users.
   NORMAL STRENGTH OF DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Liquid sewage or wastes discharged from
habitable buildings and residences, including human excreta and wastes from
sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, laundries and all other water carried
wastes of organic nature, either singly or in combination thereof. NORMAL
DOMESTIC SEWAGE has a maximum biological oxygen demand of 200 mg/l, a maximum
suspended solids content of 250 mg/l and a pH between 6.5 and 9.5 and which
does not contain a concentration of other constituents which will interfere
with the normal sewage treatment process.
   NUISANCE. Without limitation, any condition where sewage or the effluent
from any sewage disposal facility is exposed to the surface of the ground; or
is permitted to drain on or to the surface of the ground or into any natural
outlet; or when the odor, appearance or presence of this material has an
obnoxious or detrimental effect on or to the senses and/or health of persons;
or when it shall obstruct the comfortable use or sale of adjacent property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OR O&M COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect,
inclusive of all expenditures attributable to administration, replacement and
treatment and collection of sewage or wastes, but not including debt service
necessary to ensure adequate treatment and collection of sewage or wastes on a
continuing basis in conformance with the NPDES permit, U.S. Farmers Home
Administration grant conditions, U.S. EPA requirements and other applicable
regulations.
   ORDER OF DETERMINATION. A written order of the village establishing the
allowable wastewater discharge characteristics or requirements for any given
user.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ions solution,
in grams per liter.
   POLLUTANT. Any of the various chemicals, substances and refuse materials
such as solid waste, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat and industrial, municipal and
agricultural wastes which impair the purity of the water and soil.
   PPM. Parts per million.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful condition prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the system. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substance or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment of sewage or wastes prior to discharge into the sewage
treatment facility.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded or cut to such degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The system, which is owned and controlled by the township.
   RECEIVING FUND. The separate depository account established by the Treasurer
for the system pursuant to §
51.41 of this chapter.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures and costs for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
sewage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the system was
designed and constructed.
   ROAD COMMISSION or COUNTY ROAD COMMISSION. The Kent County Road Commission,
Kent County, Michigan, and/or its duly authorized agent or representative.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage, storm, surface and ground
waters are not normally admitted to a sanitary sewer.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight tank or receptacle used to receive sewage or
wastes from flush toilets, sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, laundry drains
and similar waste lines, and is intended to provide for the separation of
substantial portions of the suspended solids in such sewage or wastes and the
partial decomposition by bacterial action on solids so separated.
   SERVICE CONNECTION OR LATERAL. The extension of the public sewer laterally
from the main collector sewer to the property line of the parcel adjacent to
the path of the public sewer.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES. Any toilet device, cesspool, seepage pit, septic
tank, subsurface disposal system or other devices used in the disposal of
sewage or wastes.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The physical plant
designated to receive and treat the raw, untreated sewage or wastes of the
properties, which is located in the Village of Sparta, Michigan, and which
serves the system.
   SEWAGE WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of sewage or wastes, including all service connections,
mains, manholes and pumping stations.
   SEWAGE or WASTES. Any combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments,
including industrial wastes and domestic sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying sewage or wastes.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation which remains uncorrected 45 days after notification of
non-compliance;
      (2)   A violation which is a part of a pattern of non-compliance over a
12-month period;
      (3)   A violation which involves a failure to accurately report non-
compliance; or
      (4)   A violation which results in the exercise of emergency authority
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(vi)(B).
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial wastes which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of time longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT. Any Camp Lake Sewer Special Assessment
District, as may be determined by the Township Board.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL. Any sewer special assessment roll as may be
confirmed by the Township Board.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface waters,
or drainage, but excludes sewage or wastes and industrial wastes.
   STRUCTURE OR BUILDING IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building or
structure in which toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing or facilities which
generate water-carried sanitary sewage are used or are available for use for
household, commercial, industrial or other purposes.
   SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An arrangement for distribution of septic tank
effluent or overflow beneath the ground surface.
   SUPERVISOR. The Supervisor of the township or his or her authorized
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or S.S. Either floating on the surface of or suspended in
water, sewage or wastes, or other liquids and which are removable by laboratory
filtering and biologic processes.
   SYSTEM. The sewage works and sewage treatment facility and all appurtenances
thereto, known generally as the CAMP LAKE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   SWRC. The State of Michigan Water Resources Commission or any of its
affiliates, the state’s Department of Health, the state’s Department of Natural
Resources or the state’s Department of Transportation.
   TOILET DEVICE. A privy, outhouse, toilet, chemical closet or other device
used for the disposal of human excreta.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Sparta, located in Kent County, Michigan, and/or
its duly authorized agent or representative.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which is or can
potentially be harmful to public health or to the environment, including those
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the EPA
under the provisions of § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C.§ 1317(b).
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of the township, or his or her duly authorized
deputies, assistants or agents.
   U.S. EPA or EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, which
assures the protection of the environment by abating or controlling pollution
on a systematic basis.
   UNIT or UNITS. A standard of measuring the relative quantity of sewage or
wastes and the benefits derived from the disposal thereof ordinarily arising
from the occupancy of a single-family residential dwelling unit, as defined or
determined from time to time by the township through its Township Board. Said
UNITS are set forth in §
51.09 of this chapter, according to the use of the property. Any use not listed
in §
51.09 of this chapter shall, in the discretion of the Supervisor, upon
authority of the Township Board, possess those units which attach to the
property based upon the most similar use listed in §
51.09 of this chapter. Such UNIT shall not necessarily be related to the actual
use arising from any such use or dwelling unit.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors
beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not include
non-compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
sewage treatment facilities, inadequate sewage treatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance or careless or improper operation.
   USER. The recipients of services provided by the system including premises
which are connected to and discharge sewage or wastes into the system and shall
consist of the following classes:
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user whose premises:
         (a)   Are domiciles for single- or multiple-family use; and
         (b)   Discharge only domestic sewage.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user whose premises:
         (a)   Are publicly-owned facilities performing local government
functions (e.g., government office building, post office, library, school); and
         (b)   Discharge only domestic sewage.
      (3)   COMMERCIAL USE. A user whose premises:
         (a)   Are privately owned and used to perform and/or sell services
and/or products for profit (such as, retail and wholesale stores, restaurants,
motel, gasoline stations); and
         (b)   Discharge primarily domestic sewage.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A user whose premises:
         (a)   Are owned by a non-profit organization pursuant to I.R.C. § 501,
being 26 U.S.C. § 501, as amended (such as, churches, hospitals); and
         (b)   Discharge primarily domestic sewage.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user whose premises:
         (a)   1.   Discharge more than the equivalent of 50,000 gallons per
day (gpd) of sewage or wastes (which may, at the discretion of the township, be
exclusive of domestic sewage) and which is identified in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as
amended and supplemented, under one of the following divisions:
               a.   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
               b.   Division B, Mining;
               c.   Division D, Manufacturing;
               d.   Division E, Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas
and Sanitary Service; and
               e.   Division I, Services.
            2.   For purposes of this division (5)(a), the equivalent of 50,000
gpd of sewage or wastes shall be determined on an actual volume basis or by the
weight of BOD or SS equivalent to that weight found in 50,000 gpd of normal
strength sewage or wastes.
         (b)   Discharge sewage or wastes containing toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of the sewage works
and sewage treatment facility, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates
a nuisance or creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the water
receiving any discharge from the sewage treatment facility.
   USER CHARGE.
      (1)   A charge based on units levied on users of the system for the
user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
replacement).
      (2)   The USER CHARGE does not contain a component for debt service
because the debt incurred by the township to acquire and construct the system
is being paid by special assessments levied by the township on properties
located within the special assessment district.
   USER SURCHARGE or SURCHARGE. A charge imposed on a user of the system who
discharges sewage or wastes in excess of normal strength.
   VILLAGE or THE VILLAGE. The Village of Sparta, located in Sparta Township,
Kent County, Michigan, or the person designated by the Village Council to
represent the village.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.002) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   If a public sewer is not available to a parcel of land located in the
district under provisions of §§
51.20 through
51.25 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to private sewage
disposal facilities constructed in compliance with the requirements of the
township, Health Department and the SWRC.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the township.
   (C)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the township, the
Health Department, the SWRC or any other governmental agency with jurisdiction
over the district.
(Prior Code, § 70.004) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb the public sewer without first obtaining a
written permit from the township.
   (B)   A connection to the public sewer shall be made only by a licensed
contractor upon written authorization and a permit issued by the township.
Prior to said connection, the property owner or his agent shall submit a permit
application to the township. This permit application shall be on a special form
furnished by the township and shall be accompanied by the connection fee, any
civil penalty which has accrued pursuant to §
51.24 of this chapter, provision for payment of the applicable inspection fee,
provision for payment of all costs relating to construction of the service
connection, the plans and specifications of all plumbing construction within
the premises and all other information required by the township. The township
shall determine if the system has sufficient capacity to accommodate sewage to
be generated by the proposed use. The connection shall not be approved if
sufficient capacity is not available.
   (C)   The approval of a permit application shall be subject to:
      (1)   Compliance with all terms of this chapter, including payment of the
connection fee pursuant to division (B) above, the payment of any civil penalty
which has accrued pursuant to §
51.24 of this chapter, provision for payment of all costs relating to
construction of the service connection, provision for payment of the applicable
inspection fee and all orders, rules and regulations of the Health Department
and the SWRC;
      (2)   The availability of capacity in the system, including compatible
pollutant capacity; and
      (3)   Compliance of the plans and specifications with the following
standards for construction.
         (a)   The building sewer shall be of vitrified clay pipe meeting
specifications of the American Standard for Testing Materials requirement C-700
(denoted ASTM C-700); Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene (ABS) solid wall sewer
pipe and fittings, designated ASTM D-2741 with minimum sidewall thickness to
Diameter Ratio of 35, designated SDR-35; ABS composite sewer pipe and fittings
designated ASTM D2680-SDR-35; ductile iron pipe meeting current specifications
of the American Waterworks Association (AWWA) C-151, Class 52; polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) pipe designated D-3034-SDR-35; or approved equal. All building
sewers over ten feet deep below the existing ground elevation shall be of pipe
having greater strength than the above-mentioned pipe classes.
         (b)   The size of the building sewer shall not be less than four
inches in diameter. The minimum diameter of the service connection shall be six
inches.
         (c)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall. Minimum depth of
the building sewer at the property line shall be eight and one-half feet below
the established street grade. Where this minimum depth cannot be obtained, the
building sewer shall be laid with a minimum rise of one-quarter inch per foot.
         (d)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, the sewage to be carried by the
building drain shall be lifted by approved means and discharged to the sewer.
         (e)   Where the public sewer is more than 12 feet deep measured from
established street grade, a riser shall be constructed on the public sewer
using methods and materials approved by the township.
         (f)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-
tight. Joints for vitrified clay sewer pipe shall be of resilient materials
conforming to ASTM C-425. Joints for ABS pipe shall be type SC (solvent cement)
or type OR (O-Ring). Joints for PVC pipe shall conform to ASTM D1784.
         (g)   Connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall
conform to requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable
rules and regulations of the township, or the procedures in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of
Practice No. 9. All deviations from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the township.
         (h)   Two or more building sewers shall not be connected directly or
indirectly to the same service connection or lateral.
         (i)   A minimum distance of ten feet shall be maintained between the
building sewer and all water carrying pipes.
         (j)   Separate and independent service connections shall be provided
for each parcel of land located adjacent to the path of the sanitary sewer.
Additional service connections to a parcel shall be provided only when township
zoning requirements for lot size and land use are met, approval of the Township
Board is given, all permit and connection fees for each additional service
connection are paid, and division (C) above is satisfied.
   (D)   All excavations, pipe laying and backfill required for the
installation of building sewers shall conform with requirements and standards
approved by the township. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved by the contractor inspector. Backfill material shall be
free of cinders, ashes, refuse, sod, organic material, brush, trees, boulders,
rocks larger than six inches in diameter, frozen material or other material
which, in the opinion of the connection inspector is unsuitable.
   (E)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made
at the service connection. If no service connection is available, the
procedures set forth in division (C)(3)(g) above shall be followed.
   (F)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior footing
or foundation drains, areaway drains, storm drains or other points of entry of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to the public sewer.
   (G)   All excavations for building sewer installation and connection to the
public sewer shall be adequately guarded by the contractor so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored at the cost of the
property owner in a manner satisfactory to the township.
   (H)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be borne by the owner of the
property being connected. No such work shall be commenced before such owner
obtains the necessary permission to work in the public right-of-way from the
township and the County Road Commission. Said owner shall indemnify the
township from all loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be caused by
the installation and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer.
   (I)   The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the connection
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection. If the connection
inspector determines that the building sewer has been constructed and installed
pursuant to this chapter and the permit issued by the township, the building
sewer shall then be connected with the public sewer under the supervision of
the connection inspector.
   (J)   The cost of all repairs, maintenance and replacements of existing
building sewers and their connection to public sewers shall be borne by the
property owner. Such owner shall make application to perform such work to the
township.
   (K)   Existing building sewers and their connections, used to connect
previously demolished or removed buildings to the public sewer, may be used to
connect newly constructed buildings only when such building sewers are
certified by the administrator as meeting all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.005) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to the public sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the ground surface or to a natural outlet approved by the township or the SWRC.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided by specific limits stated in this
chapter, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged sewage or wastes
having any of the following characteristics or conditions to any public sewer:
      (1)   BOD in concentrations exceeding 1,000 mg/l;
      (2)   COD in concentrations exceeding 1,000 mg/l;
      (3)   Phosphorus in concentrations exceeding 100 mg/l;
      (4)   Chlorine demand in excess of 15 mg/l;
      (5)   Any garbage which is not properly shredded garbage;
      (6)   Grease, oils, wax, fats or any other substances that will solidify
or become viscous in the sewer at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing greater than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil, grease, wax or other similar materials;
      (8)   Substances which tend to settle out in the sewer, causing stoppage
or obstruction of flow;
      (9)   Liquids which are corrosive;
      (10)   Insoluble, solid or viscous substances such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair, paunch manure;
      (11)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (12)   Substances having a pH less than 6.5 and greater than 9.5;
      (13)   All toxic, poisonous or radioactive wastes or isotopes exceeding
limits established by applicable state and federal regulations;
      (14)   Any substance harmful to pipes, jointing material, manholes,
concrete or structures or processes of the system;
      (15)   Any live animals, fish or reptiles;
      (16)   Suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/l;
      (17)   Wastes having a temperature less than 32°F or greater than 150°F;
      (18)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which cause obstructions to
the flow in collecting or intercepting sewers or interference with the proper
operation of the treatment works or explosion or are in any other way injurious
to the sewer work or its operation;
      (19)   Any wastes at such temperatures that biological activity is
inhibited at the treatment works resulting in interference. The discharge of
heat must be regulated so that the temperature at the treatment works influent
does not exceed 40°C (104°F);
      (20)   Arsenic in concentrations in excess of 0.014 mg/l;
      (21)   Cadmium in concentrations in excess of 0.005 mg/l;
      (22)   Chromium (total) in concentrations in excess of 0.020 mg/l;
      (23)   Copper in concentrations in excess of 0.119 mg/l;
      (24)   Cyanide in concentrations in excess of 0.29 mg/l;
      (25)   Lead in concentrations in excess of 0.051 mg/l;
      (26)   Nickel in concentrations in excess of 0.031 mg/l;
      (27)   Zinc in concentrations in excess of 0.490 mg/l;
      (28)   Any material indicated in the EPA priority pollutants and/or the
state’s critical material list or register;
      (29)   Wastes which create or can create a fire or explosion hazard,
defined as being greater than 20% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) for the
substance. Materials of concern in this regard include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, Stoddard solvents and sulfides. Also, any liquids, solids
or gases which, by their nature or quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either
alone or by interaction with other substances as to cause fire;
      (30)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding substances, released in
a discharge of such volume or strength which causes interference;
      (31)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (32)   Any slug released in a single extraordinary discharge of such
volume or strength as to cause interference to the sewage works;
      (33)   Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment
standards, alternative discharge limits or other federal or state limitations,
for a particular industrial subcategory, the pretreatment standard, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter and shall be considered part of this chapter. The township shall notify
all affected users of the applicable reporting requirements; and
      (34)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply
whenever such measurements and limitations are more stringent than national
categorical pretreatment standards or limitations presented in this chapter.
   (D)   No customer of the system shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any sewage or wastes which would cause effluent from the sewage treatment
facility to exceed discharge limits established in the NPDES permit issued to
the village for operation of the township’s wastewater treatment plant.
   (E)   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment.
   (F)   (1)   If any sewage or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewer, and such sewage or wastes contain the
substances or possess the characteristics listed in division (C) above and
which, in the judgment of the township, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works or sewage treatment facility, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the township
may take the actions necessary to:
         (a)   Reject the sewage or wastes from the public sewer;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for the
discharge of the sewage or wastes to the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the sewage or wastes pursuant to §
51.40 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the township permits the pretreatment or equalization of sewage
or waste flows, the design and installation of the plants, processes and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the township, the
Health Department, the SWRC and subject to the requirements of all applicable
codes, ordinances, regulations and laws. No construction of pretreatment
facilities shall take place until all necessary approvals are obtained in
writing. The township may:
         (a)   Put such conditions on the acceptance of such wastewater or
pollutants as the Township Board deems necessary;
         (b)   Set unit charges and surcharges, or a schedule of other charges
and fees for the wastewater to be discharged to the sewage works;
         (c)   Limit the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (d)   Limit the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or make
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         (e)   Require the installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         (f)   Establish specifications for monitoring programs which may
include sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards
for tests and reporting schedule;
         (g)   Establish compliance schedules;
         (h)   Require submission of technical reports of discharge reports;
         (i)   Require the maintaining, retaining and furnishing of plant
records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the township and
affording the township and village access thereto and copying thereof;
         (j)   Require notification of the township for any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the system; and
         (k)   Require notification of slug discharges.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
sewage or wastes, such facilities shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at no expense to the
township.
   (H)   Industrial or non-domestic users shall provide pretreatment as
required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the national
categorical pretreatment standards and as required by the township. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the
township shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the township for review, and shall be approved by the
township before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and
operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
township under the provisions of this chapter. All subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the township prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (I)   All non-domestic users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
sewage works shall submit information on their processes and wastewater to the
township before connecting to or contributing to the sewage works. All current
non-domestic users connected to or contributing to the sewage works shall
submit this information upon request of the township. The information submitted
must be sufficient for the township to determine the impact of the proposed
user’s discharge on the sewage works and the need for pretreatment. The user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number;
      (3)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (4)   Average daily and instantaneous peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (5)   Industries identified as significant industries or subject to the
national categorical pretreatment standards or alternative discharge limits or
those required by the township must submit site plans, floor plans, mechanical
and plumbing plans and details to show all sewers, service connections,
inspection manholes, sampling chambers and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (6)   Description of activities, facilities and plan processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (7)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by the township, state or federal pretreatment standards and
a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met
on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional O&M and/or additional
pretreatment is required by the industrial user to meet applicable pretreatment
standards;
      (8)   If additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this
schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this
schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards, including, but not limited to,
dates related to hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing
final plans, executing contracts for major components, commencing construction,
completing construction and all other acts necessary to achieve compliance with
this chapter;
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (I)(8)(a) above nine
months;
         (c)   Not later than 15 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
township including, as a minimum, whether or not the user complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which the
user expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay
and the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the
schedule established. In no event shall more than three months elapse between
such progress reports to the township.
      (9)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processors and
rate of production;
      (10)   Type and amount of raw materials processed, average and maximum
per day;
      (11)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (12)   Any other information required by the township to evaluate the
impact of the discharge on the sewage works; and
      (13)   Within six months of the promulgation of revision of a
pretreatment standard, all affected users must submit to the township the
information required by this section.
   (J)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the sewage works, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the township a report
indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from
the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment standards and
requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these process units in
the user’s facility which are limited by such pretreatment standards or
requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what
additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring
the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the industrial user and certified to by a qualified representative.
   (K)   Any user or new source subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements and discharging into the sewage works shall submit to the township
semi-annually, unless required more frequently in a pretreatment standard or by
the township, a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in
the effluent which are limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition,
this report shall include a record of all daily flows which, during the
reporting period, exceeded the average daily flow reported to the township as
herein required. At the discretion of the township and in consideration of such
factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays or budget cycles, the
township may alter the months during which the above reports are to be
submitted. The township may also impose mass limitations on users in cases in
which the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. In such case, the
report required by this division (K) shall also indicate the mass of pollutants
regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
   (L)   When required by the township, the owner(s) of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer. The purpose of this control manhole shall be to
enable observation, sampling and measurements of the industrial wastes. Such
manhole shall be in a location approved by the township, shall be easily
accessible and shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the township and the Township Engineer. Installation of the control
manhole, sampling equipment and other appurtenances required by the township
shall be at the expense of the property owner. The owner shall also maintain
the control manhole and appurtenances in a safe and accessible manner at all
times.
   (M)   All measurements, tests and analysis of characteristics of industrial
wastes shall be conducted on samples obtained at the control manhole. Where no
specific control manhole has been constructed, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (N)   (1)   The storage or use area for oil, salt or any materials in the
critical material register prepared by the state’s Water Resources Commission
pursuant to § 6 of the Commission Act, being M.C.L.A. Chapter 324, shall be
diked, curbed or otherwise structurally enclosed as required by rules
promulgated by the Water Resources Commission, being Part 5 R323.151 through
R323.1169, being M.C.L.A. Chapter 451, as amended.
      (2)   In addition, each user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter
to waters of the state or the sewage works. Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the
user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the township for
review, and shall be approved by the township before construction. Each user
shall complete construction of these facilities within a time period specified
by the township. No new user shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into
the system until approved accidental discharge facilities have been
constructed. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of an
accidental discharge, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the
operator of the sewage works of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, date and time thereof, type of waste, concentration and
volume and corrective actions.
   (O)   (1)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user
shall submit the township a detailed report describing the cause of the
discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future
occurrences.
      (2)   Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
sewage works, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability
which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted by the user in a prominent
place on the premises advising employees of whom to call in the event of an
accidental discharge.
      (4)   Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or suffer
such accidental discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
   (P)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided by users of
the system when determined by the township to be necessary for the proper
handling of sewage or wastes containing ingredients described in division (C)
above. All interceptors shall be:
         (a)   Of the type and capacity prescribed by the township;
         (b)   Located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection;
         (c)   Constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding
abrupt and extreme changes in temperature; and
         (d)   Of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with
easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and
water-tight.
      (2)   Interceptors shall not be required for residential users for
private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (Q)   All costs of design, construction, maintenance and testing of any
facilities, plants or processes needed to meet requirements of this section
shall not be the responsibility of either Algoma Township, the village or the
township.
   (R)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the township and any
industrial user whereby industrial wastes of unusual strength or character may
be accepted by the township for treatment, subject to payment of a user
surcharge by the industrial user.
   (S)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the township and any
other municipality whereby sewage or wastes from the municipality may be
accepted by the township for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
municipality.
   (T)   (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the village that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (2)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portion of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES
permit or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that, such portions of
a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
(Prior Code, § 70.006) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.06 UPSETS.
   (A)   Any industrial user which experiences an upset shall inform the
township upon the user’s first awareness of the upset.
   (B)   A documented upset shall be an affirmative defense to any enforcement
action brought by the township against a user for any non-compliance with the
ordinance or any permit issued pursuant hereto, which arises out of violations
alleged to have occurred during the period of the upset.
   (C)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of
upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs, or other relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the specific
cause(s) of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
township within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of non-compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
(Prior Code, § 70.014) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.07 AMENDMENT.
   The township specifically reserves the right to amend this chapter in whole
or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by such
amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease or otherwise modify any of the
fees, charges or rates herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 70.017) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.08 DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICT.
   A copy of the description of the district is on file and available for
inspection in the office of the Township Clerk.
(Prior Code, Part 70, App. I) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.09 CALCULATION OF UNITS.
   The number of units to be assigned to any premises for sewage disposal
services shall be as hereafter provided and, if not specifically provided, then
as determined by the township. Changes in the character of the use of any
premises which places the premises in another category shall subsequently be
assigned the appropriate unit factors in accordance with the following
schedule. If a single premises has more than one use category, each use shall
be assigned the appropriate units, but not less than one use shall be assigned
for each separate use. The number of units determined by this schedule shall be
rounded off to the nearest one-tenth unit for billing purposes, but shall not
be less than one unit for any premises.
Usage Unit Unit Factor
Usage                                         Unit                  Unit Factor
Barber shops                                  per barber chair      .14
Bars                                          per seat              .05
Beauty shops                                  per working station   .25
Boarding houses                               per person            .16
Bowling alleys (no bars, lunch facility)      per alley             .16
Campground                                    per trailer           .35
Car wash                                      single production     10.00
                                              line
Churches                                      per seat              .004
Cleaners (pick-up only)                       per employee          .166
Clinics (minimum assignment — 1.00 unit per per doctor            .50
profession)
Convalescent homes                            per bed               .25
Country clubs                                 per member            .083
Drug stores (with fountain service)           per seat              .083
Fraternal organization (members only)         per hall              1.0
Fraternal organization (members and rentals)  per hall              2.0
Golf course (no eating facilities)            club house            2.0
Grocery stores and supermarkets               per 1,000 square feet .40
Hotels, motels                                per room              .25
Industry (exclusive of wet process)           per 1,000 square feet .25
Industry (wet process)                        to be determined at
                                              time of application
Laundry (self-service)                        per washer            .50
                                              per oversize washer   .75
Mobile home park                              per mobile home       1.0
Office building                               per 1,000 square feet .40
Public institutes (other than hospitals)      per employee          .30
Residential structures                        per living unit       1.0
Restaurants (dinner and/or drinks)            per seat              .083
Rooming houses (no meals)                     per person            .125
Schools (no cafeteria or showers)             per classroom         .40
   (with cafeteria—add)                  per classroom         .35
   (with showers—add)                    per classroom         .25
Service station                               per station           2.0
Snack bars, drive-in and the like             per seat or stall     .083
Store (other than specifically listed)        per employee          .166
Swimming pool (public)                        per 1,000 square feet 3.0
Theater (drive-in)                            per car space         .02
Warehouse                                     per 1,000 square feet .10
 
(Prior Code, Part 70, App. II) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.20 PLACEMENT OF UNSANITARY MATTER.
   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be placed or deposited in any
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the district any
garbage, sewage or wastes.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLET.
   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet within the district any
sewage or wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with standards established by the SWRC, U.S. EPA
and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall construct or maintain in
the district any sewage disposal facilities.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 CONNECTIONS.
   As a matter of public health, all connections to the public sewer, required
hereunder, shall be completed no later than 12 months after official notice by
the township to make said connections. Persons who fail to complete a required
connection to the public sewer within such 12-month period shall be liable for
a civil penalty equal in amount to the user charges that would have accrued and
been payable had the connection been made as required.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   Plats for premises located in the district and subdivided into four or more
lots or parcels, which are undeveloped and which were not assessed on a special
assessment roll or whose owners otherwise requested that a service connection
or lateral not be extended to the undeveloped parcel at the time the sewer was
constructed, shall not be approved by the township after the effective date of
this chapter unless, without regard to the 200-foot requirement hereof, an
extension to the public sewer is constructed to and serving all lots in the
plat in compliance with the construction and capacity requirements of the
township as reviewed by the Township Engineer, all at the cost of the owner of
the premises. This is intended to implement the provisions of the Subdivision
Control Act of 1967 (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.,
as amended).
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.25 ASSESSMENT OF PAYMENT OF COST.
   All parcels located within the district, and to which this section is not
applicable, which were not assessed on a special assessment roll or whose
owners otherwise requested that a service connection or lateral not be extended
to the parcel at the time the sewer was constructed may, upon application of
its owners, be connected to the public sewer. Such application shall be
approved by the township and the Township’s Engineer, who shall determine the
exact location and method of cutting into the public sewer and the materials to
be used. The owner(s) of the parcel shall obtain all necessary permission to
work in the public right-of-way from the township and the county’s Road
Commission and shall be responsible for payment of all costs related to
construction of the building drain, building sewer and service connection,
connection of the building sewer to the service connection including, but not
limited to, actual construction costs, backfill, restoration and replacement
costs; and all applicable permit, inspection fees and connection fees.
(Prior Code, § 70.003) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.40 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The system shall, as much as possible, be operated and maintained by
the township on a public utility basis as authorized by state law. The system
shall be operated on the same fiscal year as that of the township. The
Administrator shall annually, on or before February 15 of each year, submit a
report to the Township Board on the revenues and expenditures of the system,
including a projected budget for the ensuing fiscal year and recommendations
for the user charges and user surcharges, if any, for such ensuing year.
   (B)   The owners of all premises required by §§
51.20 through
51.25 of this chapter to connect to the system shall pay a connection fee. The
connection fee shall be payable in the same amount as charged against similar
parcels similarly situated in the district. The connection charge or fee shall
include a fee, the amount of which shall be as set by the township from time to
time, per customer unit for Algoma Township’s share of the existing facility
and a fee, the amount of which shall be as set by the township from time to
time, per customer unit for the village’s share of the existing facility.
Connection fees for services to newly platted parcels may be negotiated between
the Township Board and the developer of the plat, using the amount of the
special assessment as a guide. However, in no event shall the connection fee be
less than that amount assessed by Algoma Township against the township as
provided in the wastewater treatment maintenance, management and service
agreement between the township and Algoma Township dated 8-13-1991. If the
installation of a new service connection or lateral is required for the
connection, the owner of the premises shall be liable in addition to the
connection fee for the costs and expenses of installing the service connection
or lateral, as provided in division (C) below, the connection fee shall be paid
in cash, or on terms as provided above if financed, to the extent not offset by
payments made for special assessments, prior to the issuance by the township of
a permit to connect to the sewer pursuant to division (E) below, the connection
fee shall increase at a rate of 10% of the current connection fee per calendar
year. The first such increase shall take effect 1-1-1992.
   (C)   (1)   A user charge for each premises within the township connected to
the sewer shall be charged as follows:
 
User               User Charge
Commercial user    Amount as set by the township from time to time
Governmental user  Amount as set by the township from time to time
Industrial user    Amount as set by the township from time to time
Institutional user Amount as set by the township from time to time
Residential user   Amount as set by the township from time to time
NOTE TO TABLE:
Units shall be determined in accordance with §
51.09 of this chapter.
 
      (2)   The user charges imposed pursuant to this section are applicable
only to users who discharge normal strength domestic sewage. A user who
discharges into the system toxic pollutants or sewage or wastes that do not
qualify as normal strength domestic sewage shall also pay a user surcharge
determined pursuant to division (D) below for each day such toxic pollutants or
non-qualifying sewage or waste are discharged.
      (3)   As of the date of adoption of this chapter, it is determined that
no users of the system are industrial users. Before the township permits any
industrial user to connect to the system in the future, the township shall take
the necessary action, including adoption of necessary ordinances, to comply
with federal and state guidelines applicable to the collection and treatment of
industrial wastes.
      (4)   User charges shall begin to accrue as of the first day of the first
month following the date the connection fee is paid to the township in
accordance with §
51.04 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Wastes with concentrations of compatible pollutants in excess of
the limits otherwise provided herein may be allowed up to the upper limit
indicated below, but shall be subject to a surcharge in accordance with that
listed below:
 
                 Surcharge ($/lb.)      Maximum Upper Limit (mg/l)
BOD - 5 day      As set by the township 200
Phosphorus       As set by the township 8
Suspended solids As set by the township 250
 
      (2)   In the event of any violation of the provisions of this chapter, as
amended, by a user, such user shall pay a surcharge fee which amount shall be
at least equal to all expenses, losses or damages caused to the township or
village by reason of any such violation.
      (3)   All industrial and non-domestic users shall pay a surcharge fee in
addition to the above which shall be at least equal to all expenses or costs
incurred by the township in the monitoring, inspection and surveillance
procedures and in the set up or operation of pretreatment programs concerning
such industrial or non-domestic user as indicated herein.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to bill and collect all user charges
and user surcharges. The Clerk shall mail each user a bill on or before the
tenth day of the first month in the quarterly billing period. The bill shall
separately itemize the user charge and user surcharge, if any. Payment of the
bill which is rendered by the Clerk is due and payable on or before the first
day of the second month in the quarterly billing period. Payment of said bill
shall be made at a location designated by the Township Board.
   (F)   If user charges or user surcharges are not paid on or before the due
date then a penalty of 10% of the amount unpaid shall be added thereto.
   (G)   (1)   If connection fees, user charges or user surcharges are not paid
on or before the due date, the township, pursuant to Public Act 132 of 1981, as
amended, may:
         (a)   Discontinue the services provided by the system by disconnecting
the building sewer or inserting a shutoff valve in the service connection or
lateral, and the service so discontinued shall not be reinstated until all sums
then due and owing, including penalties, interest and all expenses incurred by
the township for shutting off and turning on the service, shall be paid to the
township;
         (b)   Institute an action in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the collection of the amounts unpaid, including penalties, interest and
reasonable attorney fees; or
         (c)   Enforce the lien created in division (H) below.
      (2)   These remedies shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to any
other remedy provided in this chapter or now or hereafter existing at law or in
equity. Under no circumstances shall action taken by the township to collect
unpaid connection fees, user charges or user surcharges, penalties and
interest, invalidate or waive the lien created by division (H) below.
   (H)   The connection fees, user charges and user surcharges, and all other
fees required by this chapter shall be a lien on the respective premises served
by the system. Whenever such fee, charge or surcharge shall be unpaid for 60
days or more, it shall be considered delinquent. The Treasurer shall certify
all delinquent fees, charges or surcharges annually, on or before September 15
of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the township, who shall enter the
delinquent fees, charges, surcharges, interest and penalties upon the next tax
roll as a charge against the premises affected and such charge shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as ad valorem
property taxes levied against such premises.
   (I)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, public
or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Prior Code, § 70.007) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.41 RECEIVING FUND.
   (A)   The Receiving Fund shall be established as a separate depository
account of the township by the Treasurer. The revenues and income derived from
the collection of rates and charges imposed by §
51.40 of this chapter shall be deposited into the Receiving Fund. The moneys
deposited in the Receiving Fund shall be allocated to sub-accounts of the
Receiving Fund by the Treasurer as follows:
      (1)   At the beginning of each quarter of the system’s fiscal year, there
shall be allocated to an Operation and Maintenance Account a sum sufficient to
pay that quarter’s estimated expenses of operation and maintenance, exclusive
of replacement. Any sums remaining in said account at the end of each quarter
shall be carried over and applied towards the next succeeding quarter’s
expenses for operation and maintenance, exclusive of replacement.
      (2)   At the beginning of each quarter of the system’s fiscal year and
only after the Operation and Maintenance Account is funded in full, there shall
be allocated to a replacement account one-fourth of the sum budgeted for
replacement for the current fiscal year. The moneys on deposit in this account
from time to time shall be accumulated and used only for replacement.
      (3)   At the end of each fiscal year, there shall be set aside all
remaining revenues in the Receiving Fund into a surplus account. The funds in
this account, at the option of the Township Board, may be used for any legally
permissible purpose reasonably related to the system.
   (B)   Moneys in the Receiving Fund or any account thereof may be invested as
permitted by law and subject to the liquidity needs of the particular account.
(Prior Code, § 70.008) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The township shall be the strict enforcer of provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The township may suspend waste and/or wastewater treatment service
when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the township, in order to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, causes interference to the sewage works or causes violation of any
condition of the NPDES permit.
   (C)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service shall immediately stop or eliminate the non-complying discharge. In the
event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the township shall take such steps as deemed necessary including, but
not limited to, immediate severance of the service connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the sewage works or endangerment to any individuals. The
township shall reinstate the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the non-complying discharge and upon payment to the township of
all costs of operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment facilities
due to the violation. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the township within 15 days
of the date of occurrence.
   (D)   Where it is not possible for a user or prospective user to bring its
wastes within the limits prescribed by this chapter and any orders of
determination made hereunder, the township may discontinue or deny service to
such user or prospective user.
   (E)   Whenever the township determines that any user has violated or is
violating this chapter, or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained
herein, the township may serve upon such person a written notice stating the
nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for
the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the township by the
user.
   (F)   The township shall annually publish in a local newspaper a list of the
users with significant violations during the 12 previous months. The
notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
user(s) during the same 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 70.009) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.43 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The duly authorized representatives, employees or agents of the township,
including, but not limited to, the Supervisor, the Township’s Engineer and
representatives of SWRC bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter at any time during reasonable or usual business hours in and
upon all properties in the district for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, testing and emergency repairs in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.010) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.44 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The township shall maintain complete books and records relating to the
operation of the system and its financial affairs and will cause such books and
records to be audited annually at the end of each fiscal year and an audit
report to be prepared. A copy of each audit report will be made available upon
written request to holders of outstanding debt incurred to finance part or all
of the cost of the system. Based on such audits, the township shall determine
whether all users are paying their proportionate share of operation and
maintenance and whether the user charges and user surcharges, if any, are
generating sufficient revenues to pay for operation and maintenance. If
necessary, the township shall adjust the user charges and user surcharges, if
any, so that said charges will generate sufficient revenues to pay for
operation and maintenance. The township, on an annual basis, shall notify the
users in writing of the user charges in effect and the portion of the user
charge allocated for operation and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 70.011) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.45 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any differences which may arise between the users and the
Administrator which cannot be resolved may be appealed to the Township Board.
   (B)   Any user subject to enforcement action under the provisions of this
chapter may request a hearing before the Township Board within ten days of
receipt of notification of said action. The Township Board shall conduct a
hearing concerning the violation, the reasons for the action, any proposed
enforcement actions and directing the user to show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be implemented.
   (C)   The Township Board may conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
may designate any officer or employee to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Township Board notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Township
Board for action thereon.
   (D)   At any hearing held pursuant to this section, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded. The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to
any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges thereof.
   (E)   After reviewing the evidence, the Township Board may issue an order to
the user directing that, following a specified time period, the sewer service
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances shall have been installed on existing treatment facilities, and
that said devices or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further
orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
   (F)   The Township Board shall also establish appropriate surcharges or fees
to reimburse the village for the additional cost of operation and maintenance
of the wastewater treatment works due to any violations of this chapter.
   (G)   Any action by the Township Board may be appealed in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 70.013) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with, climb upon or enter
into any structure, appurtenance or equipment of the system.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the
township from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation,
as authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Any nuisance or any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a
nuisance per se. The township, in the furtherance of the public health, is
hereby empowered to make all necessary repairs or take other corrective action
necessitated by such nuisance or violation. Each person who violates the
ordinance or permits such nuisance or violation to occur shall be responsible
to the township for the costs and expenses incurred by the township in making
such repairs or taking such action.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the township for all expenses, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, loss or damage caused to the township by reason of such violation.
   (E)   The township may file a complaint with a court of competent
jurisdiction and seek injunctive relief from any violation of this chapter.
   (F)   No person shall knowingly make any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, reports, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.012) (Ord. 92-2, effective 4-23-1992; Ord. 99-8, passed 11-
11-1999)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Abbreviations
   
52.03   False statements
   
52.04   Use of village sewers
   
52.05   Protection from damages
   
52.06   Enforcement agent
   
52.07   Notice of violation
   
52.08   Suspension or termination of service
   
52.09   Appeals
   
52.10   Show cause hearing
   
52.11   Permit
Regulations and Conditions
   
52.25   Separate and independent connections required
   
52.26   Building sewer specifications
   
52.27   Rates, fees and charges; billing collection
   
52.28   Location
   
52.29   Lifts and risers
   
52.30   Backfill
   
52.31   Joints and connections
   
52.32   Connection of downspouts
   
52.33   Connection to public sewer
   
52.34   Storm water, surface water and the like
   
52.35   Specific prohibitions
   
52.36   Measurements and tests
   
52.37   Interceptors
   
52.38   Dilution
   
52.39   Scope
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words, terms, phrases, formulas, chemicals and the like not included in this
section shall have the meanings as defined in the latest version of Glossary
Water and Wastewater Control Engineering, prepared by the joint editorial board
representing the American Public Health Association, American Society of Civil
Engineers, American Waterworks Association, water pollution control federation
or, if not defined therein, by a standard English language dictionary.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Clean Water Act, which
are used interchangeably in this chapter and refer to Pub. Law No. 92-500, as
adopted in 1972 and amended by Pub. Law No. 95-217 in 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq., and any succeeding amendments.
   BUILDING SANITARY DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
sanitary system which receives sanitary waste from the plumbing system of the
building and conveys it to the building sanitary sewer. The BUILDING SANITARY
DRAIN shall begin five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SANITARY SEWER. (Also called SANITARY SEWER LATERAL OR LEAD.) The
extension from the building sanitary drain to the sanitary service connection
of the public sewer or to any other approved place of disposal.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine added to
water or wastewater and the amount of residual chlorine remaining at the end of
a specified contact period. The demand for any given water varies with the
amount of chlorine applied, time of contact and temperature.
   CONNECTION INSPECTOR. The person responsible for inspecting connections of
individual residences to the public sanitary sewer system, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparing, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, sale and storage of produce.
   INTERFERENCE. Inhibition or disruption of the system, treatment processes or
operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of its NPDES
permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
system in accordance with § 405 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., or any guidelines or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any state).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Liquid wastes that are usually discharged from an
average residential premises, and includes human excreta; wastes from sinks,
lavatories, bathtubs, showers or laundries; and any other water-carrying wastes
of organic nature, either singly or in combination thereof. NORMAL DOMESTIC
SEWAGE has a maximum biological oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter and a
maximum suspended solids content of 250 milligrams per liter; has a pH between
6.5 and 9.5; and does not contain a concentration of other constituents which
will interfere with the normal sewage treatment process.
   NPDES PERMIT. The permit issued to the village by the MDEQ pursuant to the
NPDES for discharge to the Rogue River.
   NUISANCE. Includes, but is not limited to, any condition where sewage or the
effluent from any sewage disposal facility or toilet device is exposed to the
surface of the ground; into any ditch, storm sewer, lake or stream; or when the
odor, appearance or presence of this material has an obnoxious or detrimental
effect on or to the senses and/or health of persons; or when it shall obstruct
the comfortable use or sale of adjacent property.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M). All work, materials, equipment, utilities,
administration and other effort required to operate and maintain the sewage
works, and includes the cost of replacement.
   pH. The negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ion solutions,
in grams per liter.
   POLLUTANT. Any of the various chemicals, substances and refuse materials,
such as solid waste; sewage; garbage; sewage sludge; chemical wastes;
biological materials; radioactive materials; and industrial, municipal and
agricultural wastes, which impair the purity of the water and soil.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the system. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. The village sanitary sewer used or intended
for use by the public for the collection and transportation of sanitary sewage
for treatment or disposal.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement, in whole or in part, of any equipment in the
wastewater transportation or treatment systems to ensure continuous treatment
of wastewater in accordance with the NPDES permit and other state and federal
regulations.
   SANITARY SERVICE CONNECTION and SANITARY SEWER LATERAL. The extension of the
sanitary sewer laterally from the main collector sewer to the property line of
the land parcel adjacent to the path of the collector sewer.
   SANITARY SEWER and PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage,
storm water, surface water and ground water are not normally admitted to a
sanitary sewer.
   SEWAGE AND SANITARY SEWAGE. Any combination of the water-carried wastes from
residences, buildings and other structures.
   SEWAGE WORKS and TREATMENT WORKS. Include all facilities for collecting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage operated by the village.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying water and waterborne
wastes.
   SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation which remains uncorrected 45 days after notification of
non-compliance;
      (2)   A violation which is a part of a pattern of non-compliance over a
12-month period;
      (3)   A violation which involves a failure to accurately report non-
compliance; or
      (4)   A violation which results in the exercise of the sewage works’
emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(vi)(B).
   STORM SEWER and STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm water or surface
water or drainage, but excludes sewage or polluted industrial wastes.
   STRUCTURE OR BUILDING IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building or
structure in which toilet, kitchen, laundry or bathing facilities or faculties
which generate water-carried sanitary sewage are used or are available.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids either floating on the surface of or suspended in
water or sewage, and which are removable by laboratory filtering and biological
process.
   SYSTEM. The complete sewer system of the village, including all main and
lateral sewers, manholes, cleanouts, wastewater treatment facilities and
equipment contained thereon, pumping stations, and all properties, instruments
and appurtenances used or useful in the collection, treatment and discharge of
sewage wastes. Also included shall be all future improvements and additions
made to the system.
   TOILET DEVICE. A privy, outhouse, septic tank, toilet, chemical closet or
other device used for the disposal of human excreta.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Sparta, Kent County, Michigan.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which is or can
potentially be harmful to public health or environment, including those listed
as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the EPA under the
provisions of § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b).
   USER. Any person who contributes, or causes or permits the contribution of,
wastewater into the sewage works.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance of sewage works pursuant to § 204(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1284, and includes the cost of replacement.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sparta, Kent County, Michigan, or the person
designated by the Village Council to represent the village.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The elected governing body of the village.
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The duly appointed Manager of the village or his or her
designee.
(Prior Code, § 94.001) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.02 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter, under standard laboratory procedure,
in five days at 20°C. BOD shall be expressed in parts per million by weight.
   C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity
of inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater, expressed as
the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It
does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does
not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. It is also known as
OC and DOC, oxygen consumed and dichromate oxygen consumed, respectively.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   mg. Milligrams.
   Mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Prior Code, § 94.002) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.03 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   No person shall knowingly make any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.004) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 USE OF VILLAGE SEWERS.
   (A) Users shall not place, deposit or discharge into a sanitary sewer any
industrial waste or discharge, meaning liquid wastes from industrial,
manufacturing, trade or business processes or wastewater discharge from any
structure or building with similar characteristics as distinct from normal
domestic sewage.
   (B)   The payment of all necessary fees shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the premises seeking connection to or using of sanitary system. All
connections shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the village. The owner shall apply to connect to the village
sanitary sewer. Such application shall be reviewed and, if acceptable, approved
by the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.005) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGES.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with, climb upon or enter into any
structure, appurtenance or equipment of the system.
(Prior Code, § 94.001) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   The village and its officers and designated employees are hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer and enforce this chapter on behalf of the
township.
   (A)   The Village Engineer, duly authorized representatives of the village,
and agents of the MDEQ, all bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties of users of the system for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with provisions of this chapter. Such entrance shall be allowed
anytime during reasonable or usual business hours.
   (B)   The Village Engineer, duly authorized representatives of the village,
and agents of the MDEQ, all bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all private properties for which the village holds
a duly negotiated easement. Purposes of entry include, but are not limited to,
inspection, observation, measurements, repair, sampling and maintenance of any
portion of the sewer lying within the easement. All entry and any work done
within the easement shall be consistent with terms as stated in the agreement
to acquire the easement.
(Prior Code, § 94.007) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.07 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the village finds that any user has violated or is violating
this chapter, or any prohibition or limitation of requirements in this chapter,
the village may serve upon such person a written notice stating the nature of
the violation.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the village by the user.
(Prior Code, § 94.008) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.08 SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The village may suspend waste and/or wastewater treatment service when
such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the village, in order to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment; causes interference to the sewage works; or causes the village to
violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
   (B)   (1)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. In the event of a
failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
village shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
suspension of service and/or the severance of the sewer connection, to prevent
or minimize damage to the sewage works or endangerment to any individuals. The
village shall reinstate the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the non-complying discharge and upon payment to the village of
all costs of operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment facilities
due to the violation.
      (2)   A detailed written statement submitted by the user, describing the
causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence, shall be submitted to the village within 15 days of the date of
occurrence.
   (C)   Where it is not possible for a user or prospective user to bring its
wastes within the limits prescribed by this chapter and any orders of
determination made under this chapter, the village may discontinue or deny
service to such user or prospective user.
(Prior Code, § 94.009) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.09 APPEALS.
   Any differences that may arise between the system users and the
administrative officials of the system that cannot be resolved at that level
may be appealed to the Village Manager.
(Prior Code, § 94.010) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.10 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Any user subject to enforcement action under this chapter may request
a hearing before the Village Manager within ten days of receipt of notification
of such action. A hearing is to be held, by the Village Manager concerning the
violation, the reasons for the action, any proposed enforcement actions and
directing the user to show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be implemented.
   (B)   The Village Manager may conduct the hearing and take the evidence or
may designate another officer or employee to do so.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this section, testimony may be under
oath and recorded. Any transcript will be made available to any member of the
public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the Village Manager has reviewed the evidence, the Village
Manager may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing
that, following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued
unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances
shall have been installed on existing treatment facilities, and that such
devices or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
   (E)   Any action by the Village Manager may be appealed in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 94.011) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.11 PERMIT.
   (A)   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with, or
open into, use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or its appurtenances
without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   Prior to connection of a building sanitary sewer to the sanitary sewer
of the village, the owner or his or her agent shall submit a permit application
to the village. This application shall be in a form specified by the village.
The permit application shall be supplemented by plans, specifications or other
information required by the village, and shall include all fees and charges
made under this chapter. The village shall determine if the system has the
capacity to accommodate the sewage which will be generated by the proposed use.
The connection shall not be approved if sufficient capacity is not available.
(Prior Code, § 94.012) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 52.25 SEPARATE AND INDEPENDENT CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sanitary sewer to the sanitary sewer connection (lateral) shall
be borne by the property owner. Such owner shall indemnify the village and its
agents from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be caused by the
installation of the building sanitary (lateral) sewer.
   (B)   Separate and independent sanitary service connections shall be
provided for each parcel of land adjacent to the path of the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 94.014) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.26 BUILDING SEWER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sanitary sewer shall be constructed of pipe material
meeting specifications of the American Standard for Testing Materials
requirement C-700 (ASTM C-700), ASTM C-428 Class 2400, ASTM D2680 or approved
equal. All building sewers over ten feet deep shall be of pipe having greater
strength than the above-mentioned pipe classes.
   (B)   The size of the building sanitary sewer shall not be less than four
inches in diameter. Minimum diameter of the sanitary service connection shall
be six inches.
(Prior Code, § 94.015) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.27 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES; BILLING COLLECTION.
   The village shall be responsible for the establishment of, and provide for
the collection of, all permit, connection and inspection fees as may be
required.
   (A)   Rates, fees and charges for connection to and use of the system shall
be in such amounts and provided in such a manner as established by time to time
by resolution of the Village Council and in compliance with the consent and
franchise agreement between the village and the township.
   (B)   Bills shall be sent to those who establish the service or the owners
of the premises on a monthly or quarterly basis, as determined from time to
time by resolution of the Village Council.
   (C)   All amounts billed pursuant to this chapter shall be due and payable
within 30 days of the billing date.
   (D)   Bills not paid by the due date shall accrue interest at the rate of
1.5% per month or portion of a month they remain unpaid past their due dates.
In addition, there shall be imposed a 10% late fee on all late payments.
   (E)   In accordance with the consent and franchise agreement between the
village and the township, delinquent sanitary sewer rates, fees and charges
certified to the township shall be imposed by the township as a lien on the
township property tax roll and the charges will be collected and the lien
enforced on behalf of the village in the same manner as ad valorem real
property taxes.
   (F)   Users shall pay all costs incurred by the village to collect any
amounts due under this chapter which are not paid by the due date. Such costs
include, without limitation, actual, reasonable attorneys’ fees.
   (G)   All remedies provided in this section are cumulative of any other
remedies otherwise available to the village. The use of any remedy does not
preclude the use of any other remedy.
(Prior Code, § 94.016) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.28 LOCATION.
   (A)   The building sanitary sewer and any potable water line shall be
located at least ten feet apart. However, these pipes may be installed in the
same trench if the water pipe is always 18 inches above the building sanitary
sewer and on an undisturbed shelf on the opposite side of the trench from the
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sanitary sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sanitary sewer
shall be laid parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall. Minimum
depth of the building sanitary sewer at the property line shall be eight and
one-half feet below the established street grade. Where this minimum depth
cannot be obtained, the building sanitary sewer shall be laid within a rise of
one-fourth inch per foot.
(Prior Code, § 94.017) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 LIFTS AND RISERS.
   (A)   In all buildings in which any building sanitary drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the sanitary sewer, sewage to be carried by such drain
shall be lifted by approved means and discharged to the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Where the sanitary sewer is more than 12 feet deep measured from
established street grade, a riser shall be constructed on the sewer using
methods and materials approved by the village.
(Prior Code, § 94.018) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 BACKFILL.
    All excavations, pipe laying and backfill required for the installation of
building sanitary sewers shall be done to conform to requirements and standards
approved by the village. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved by the connection inspector. Cinders, ashes, refuse,
sod, organic material, brush, trees, boulders, rocks larger than 12 inches in
diameter frozen material, or other material which, in the opinion of the
village, is unsuitable shall not be used as backfill.
(Prior Code, § 94.019) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.31 JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
Joints for vitrified clay sewer pipe shall be of resilient materials conforming
to ASTM C-425.
   (B)   The connection of the sanitary sewer connection (lateral) to the
public sewer shall be made at the Y or T branch. If the property owner wishes
to connect a building sewer to the public sanitary sewer, and no sanitary sewer
connection (lateral), Y branch or T branch is available, the owner shall meet
with the village. At this meeting, the parties will determine the exact
location and method of cutting into the sewer and materials to be used.
(Prior Code, § 94.020) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.32 CONNECTION OF DOWNSPOUTS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior footing or
foundation drains, areaway drains, storm drains or other points of entry of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sanitary sewer or building
sanitary drain which, in turn, is connected directly or indirectly to the
village public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 94.021) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Connection of the building sanitary sewer to the public sanitary sewer
shall conform to requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, Design, and Construction of Sanitary and Storm
Sewers. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must receive
prior approval by the village.
   (B)   The applicant for the building sanitary sewer permit shall notify the
connection inspector when the building sewer is ready for connection with the
sanitary sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
connection inspector or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 94.022) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34 STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling waters or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 94.023) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by specific limits stated in this chapter, no
person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the public sewers any of
the following described waters or wastes:
      (1)   BOD, in concentrations in excess of 1,000 mg/l;
      (2)   COD, in concentrations in excess of 1,000 mg/l;
      (3)   Phosphorus, in concentrations in excess of 100 mg/l;
      (4)   Chlorine demand, in concentrations in excess of 15 mg/l;
      (5)   Explosive liquids, solids or gases, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil,
gasoline or other flammable material;
      (6)   Any garbage which has not been properly shredded (for example, no
particle size greater than one-half inch);
      (7)   Grease, oils, wax, fats or any other substances that will solidify
or become viscous in the sewer at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F;
      (8)   Substances which tend to settle out in the sewer, causing stopping
or obstruction to flow;
      (9)   Liquids which are corrosive;
      (10)   Insoluble, solid or viscous substances, such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair and paunch manure;
      (11)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (12)   Substances having a pH of less than 5.5 or greater than 9.5;
      (13)   All toxic (in accordance with federal regulations), poisonous or
radioactive wastes exceeding limits established by applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (14)   Any substance harmful to pipes, jointing material and manholes;
      (15)   Any live animals, fish or reptiles;
      (16)   Suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/l;
      (17)   Wastes having a temperature less than 32°F or greater than 150°F;
      (18)   Any water or waste containing greater than 100 parts per million
by weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (19)   Any substance or volume of substances or materials which would
cause interference of the system or cause violation of the NPDES permit;
      (20)   Arsenic, in concentrations in excess of 0.014 mg/l;
      (21)   Cadmium, in concentrations in excess of 0.06 mg/l;
      (22)   Chromium (total), in concentrations in excess of 0.020 mg/l;
      (23)   Copper, in concentrations in excess of 0.65 mg/l;
      (24)   Cyanide, in concentrations in excess of 0.19 mg/l;
      (25)   Lead, in concentrations in excess of 3.6 mg/l;
      (26)   Nickel, in concentrations in excess of 0.031 mg/l;
      (27)   Zinc, in concentrations in excess of 0.490 mg/l;
      (28)   Silver, in concentrations in excess of 0.032 mg/l;
      (29)   Any material indicated in the EPA priority pollutants and/or state
critical material list or register;
      (30)   Wastes which create or can create a fire or explosion hazard,
defined as being greater than 20% of the lower explosive limit for the
substance. Materials of concern in this regard include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, Stoddard solvents and sulfides; also, any liquids, solids
or gases which, by their nature or quantity, are or may be sufficient, either
alone or by interaction with other substances, as to cause fire;
      (31)   Wastes which create or cause corrosive structural damage;
      (32)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which cause obstructions to
the flow in collecting or intercepting sewers or interference with the proper
operation of the treatment works or explosion or are in any other way injurious
to the sewer work or its operation;
      (33)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding substances, released in
a discharge of such volume or strength which causes interference;
      (34)   Any wastes at such temperatures that biological activity is
inhibited at the treatment works, resulting in interference. The discharge of
heat must be regulated so that the temperature at the treatment works influent
does not exceed 40°C (104°F);
      (35)   Pollutants that will cause corrosive structural damage to the
treatment plant;
      (36)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which cause obstructions to
the flow in collecting or intercepting sewers or interference with the proper
operation of the treatment works. In no case shall any wastes have levels in
excess of 100 mg/l of fats, oils and grease discharged to the waste stream;
      (37)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding substances, released at
a flow rate or concentration that results in interference;
      (38)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (39)   Any slugload, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen-
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like), released in a single extraordinary
discharge episode of such volume or strength as to cause interference to the
sewage works; and/or
      (40)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the village
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the promulgation of the national categorical pretreatment
standards, alternative discharge limits or other federal or state limitations,
for a particular industrial subcategory, the pretreatment standard, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this section for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
section and shall be considered part of this section.
      (2)   The village shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements.
   (C)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply whenever
they are more stringent than the national categorical pretreatment standards or
limitations presented in this section.
(Prior Code, § 94.024) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of wastewater characteristics described
in §
52.35 of this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the current
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage, as published by the
American Public Health Association and as required by federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 94.025) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.37 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when determined by
the village to be necessary for proper handling of liquid wastes containing
ingredients described in §
52.35 of this chapter.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of the type and capacity as prescribed by
the village. All interceptors shall be located so as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   Interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 94.026) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 94.027) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.39 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to all users connected to or served by the system,
except those users connected to the Camp Lake sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 94.028) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties are cumulative.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, a written order made pursuant to this chapter,
except §
52.03 of this chapter, shall be served by the village with written notice,
stating the nature of the violation. A time period for satisfactory correction
of the violation will be stated. All violations shall permanently cease within
the time period stated in the notice.
   (B)   Persons violating any provision of this chapter are responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, punishable by a civil fine in the amount of $100,
plus costs for each infraction. The fine for a first repeat offense is $250,
plus costs. The fine for a second repeat offense or any subsequent repeat
offense is $500, plus costs. Each day on which any violation continues
constitutes a separate offense. Violations which are continuous with respect to
time are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable
relief.
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage caused to the village by
reason of such violations.
   (D)   The village may file a complaint with a court of competent
jurisdiction seeking injunctive relief from any violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.003) (Ord. 05-01, passed 1-13-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   [RESERVED]
      
91.   JUNK AND INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   DANGEROUS AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
      
94.   LIBRARY
      
95.   CEMETERY
      
96.   OUTDOOR GATHERINGS
      
97.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
      
98.   PUBLIC PROPERTY AND MEETING DISRUPTION
CHAPTER 90: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 91: JUNK AND INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Storage
   
91.03   Prima facie evidence
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE OR MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle or motor vehicle which
cannot be started or legally or physically operated on township streets or
public highways by virtue of lacking the equipment required by the laws of the
state or which does not bear valid and current license plates.
   JUNKED VEHICLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES.
      (1)   Include all parts or accessories of vehicles or motor vehicles
without which vehicles or motor vehicles cannot be operated in a safe manner on
township streets or public highways; and
      (2)   Vehicles or motor vehicles which have been so damaged or dismantled
as to be total losses.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   TOTAL LOSS. The cost to repair a damaged or dismantled vehicle or motor
vehicle exceeds the fair market value for such vehicle. Fair market value may
be determined by using any nationally recognized appraisal books or method.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 84.051) (Ord. I, passed 5-3-1973)
§ 91.02 STORAGE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall accumulate, store, place or permit the
accumulation, storage or placement of any inoperable or junk vehicle or motor
vehicle in the township, for more than 48 hours, unless such inoperable or junk
vehicle or motor vehicle is stored in compliance with Ch. 154 of this code of
ordinances or in enclosed garages or other structures.
(Prior Code, § 84.052) (Ord. I, passed 5-3-1973) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The ownership, occupation or use of land by any person, firm or corporation
upon which an inoperable or junked vehicle or motor vehicle is accumulated,
stored or placed shall be prima facie evidence that such person, firm or
corporation accumulated, stored or placed such inoperable vehicle or motor
vehicle upon such land or permitted such inoperable vehicle or motor vehicle to
be accumulated, stored or placed upon such land.
(Prior Code, § 84.053) (Ord. I, passed 5-3-1973)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any provision of
this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township from
time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as authorized
by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 84.054) (Ord. I, passed 5-3-1973; Ord. 98-10, passed 9-10-1998)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Burning
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Permitted and prohibited burning
   
92.04   Responsible party; billing and collection; enforcement
   
92.05   Authority of Fire Chief; burning permits
Setting Fires
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Fire permit required
   
92.22   Permits
   
92.23   Location restrictions
   
92.24   Substances emitting excessive smoke
   
92.25   Fire Chief may prohibit building of fires
   
92.26   Modification of requirements
 
   
92.99   Penalty
BURNING
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Sparta Township Burning
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 81.001) (Ord. 125, effective 10-13-1979; Ord. 96-1, effective 5-
9-1996)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED BURNING DEVICE. A properly installed and maintained incinerator
displaying an American Gas Association or similar rating organization seal of
approval stating that the device met such organization’s requirements for
smokeless-odorless operation at the date of manufacture. The absence of a seal
of approval shall be prima facie evidence that such incinerator is not an
APPROVED BURNING DEVICE.
   CLOSED. A container having a top of solid metal, or with perforations or
spaces therein not exceeding one inch in diameter in any one of said spaces and
the spaces to be at least one-quarter inch apart. Said top shall be in place
while burning.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Sparta Fire Department.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association or any
officer, employee or agent of the foregoing.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity, that violates any provision of this subchapter or is an
owner, tenant, occupant or is otherwise in control of the premises or property
on which the violation of this subchapter occurred.
   WASTE FLAMMABLE MATERIAL. Any waste or discarded substance that will burn,
including, but not limited to, refuse, debris, waste forest material, brush,
stumps, logs, rubbish, fallen timber, grass, stubble, leaves, fallow land,
crops, garbage or crop residue.
(Prior Code, § 81.002) (Ord. 125, effective 10-13-1979; Ord. 96-1, effective 5-
9-1996; Ord. 00-1, passed 1-13-2000)
§ 92.03 PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire, or
authorize such fire to be kindled or maintained, on or in any public street,
alley, road or other public ground without a permit or other proper
authorization; provided, however, the above shall not apply to a person using
any public park or public playground in the manner provided and authorized by
the authorities in control of the same.
   (B)   Excepting where expressly authorized by statute or ordinance, no
automobile tires or other parts of any motor vehicle, waste or other articles
or substances emitting excessive smoke shall be kindled or burned without a
permit therefor having been issued by the Fire Chief of the township’s Fire
Department or a duly authorized representative. No permit shall be granted,
except to prevent possible great hardship or great loss and then, only, if such
burning will not unduly pollute the atmosphere or premises owned by other
persons.
   (C)   Burning of waste flammable material in a closed or approved burning
device is permitted without a permit.
   (D)   No person may burn any waste flammable material in any manner, other
than in approved or closed burning devices, without first having obtained a
permit from the Chief of the township’s Fire Department or from a township
official.
   (E)   This subchapter shall not apply to the burning of fuels such as wood,
charcoal or gas for the preparation of food or recreation.
   (F)   It shall be lawful with a permit to burn leaves, branches not
exceeding four inches in diameter, “yard clippings”; provided further that, the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   Such burning is not done on a public street or a public parkway;
      (2)   Said leaves and/or yard clippings shall emanate from the property
on which it is burned;
      (3)   The burning must occur not less than 75 feet from the nearest
public street or highway, at least 50 feet from all buildings and at least 150
feet from the nearest dwelling owned or occupied by any person other than the
owner of the premises on which such burning shall occur;
      (4)   No burning shall take place between the hours of one hour before
sunset and one hour after sunrise;
      (5)   No burning shall take place when weather conditions are such that
burning is, in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her designee, likely to
create a hazard;
      (6)   Burning shall be conducted in such manner that it will not be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of other persons or property;
      (7)   All burning must be done under the continuous supervision of an
adult who shall be present at the fire site; and
      (8)   Some type of equipment capable of extinguishing the fire must be
conveniently available whenever burning is taking place.
   (G)   Fruit farmers in the township shall be permitted to burn brush, after
obtaining a burning permit from the township office; provided that, the brush
(being trees and/or tree trimmings and/or branches of any size and/or leaves
and/or cut grass) shall emanate from the property on which it is burned and
that all conditions of divisions (F)(1) through (F)(7) above are met.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized official to issue municipal civil infraction citations for violation
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 81.003) (Ord. 125, effective 10-13-1979; Ord. 96-1, effective 5-
9-1996; Ord. 00-1, passed 1-13-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 RESPONSIBLE PARTY; BILLING AND COLLECTION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Responsible party; reimbursement of township. When the township’s Fire
Department responds to a call for assistance which involves burning that was
conducted in violation of §
92.03 of this chapter, the responsible party shall be obligated, jointly and
severally, to reimburse the township, its agents, contractors and employees for
all costs of the township incurred in connection with the response to the
incident and for all costs of any other fire departments that responded to the
incident pursuant to a mutual aid agreement. For purposes of this section, the
costs incurred by the township for any response activities shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Charges for Fire Department vehicles as established by resolution;
      (2)   The costs of personnel, supplies and equipment of the township’s
Fire Department utilized in connection with the incident;
      (3)   Any costs charged to the township by a third party; and
      (4)   Billing and collection costs, including attorneys’ fees.
   (B)   Billing and collection. Following a response to an unlawful burning,
the Fire Chief shall prepare and transmit an invoice to the responsible party
(or parties) for payment. The invoice shall demand full payment within 30 days
of the date of the mailing of the bill. Any additional expenses that become
known to the Chief following transmittal of the bill to a responsible party
shall be billed in the same manner on a subsequent bill. For any amounts due
that remain unpaid after 30 days, the township shall impose a late charge of 1%
per month, or fraction thereof. Failure to pay the invoice within 30 days of
the date of mailing shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Enforcement. If any responsible party fails to reimburse the township
for the costs described in division (A) above, the township may bring an action
in a court of competent jurisdiction, and may take any other lawful action, to
collect such costs. In addition, if a responsible party who fails to reimburse
the township for the costs described in division (A) above, is an owner or
taxpayer of the property on which the unlawful burning occurred, the township
may add such costs to the tax roll as to such property and to levy and collect
such costs in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection of real
property taxes against such property. The recovery of costs imposed under this
section does not limit or modify the liability of any responsible party under
local ordinance, or state or federal law, rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 81.003A) (Ord. 00-1, passed 1-13-2000)
§ 92.05 AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF; BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced and administered by the Chief of the
township’s Fire Department or his or her designee. On verbal or written
application and on receipt of fee, if any has been established by the Township
Board, the Fire Chief or his or her designee may issue a permit to burn
according to the rules approved by the Township Board.
   (B)   When necessary, the Fire Chief shall make written findings concerning
his or her determination, which shall include the following:
      (1)   The need for and/or availability of Fire Department personnel to
guard against the spread of fire;
      (2)   The duration of the permit. In no case shall a permit be granted
for more than seven days;
      (3)   The degree of air pollution on the day of burning and the effect of
burning on air pollution; and
      (4)   Any other factor likely to adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare of persons and property in the township.
(Prior Code, § 81.004) (Ord. 125, effective 10-13-1979; Ord. 96-1, effective 5-
9-1996)
SETTING FIRES
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSED. A container having a top of solid metal or with perforations or
spaces therein not exceeding one inch in diameter in any one of said spaces.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of Sparta Township Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 80.001) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966)
§ 92.21 FIRE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire, or authorize
such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, alley, road
or other public ground without a permit or other proper authorization;
provided, however, the above shall not apply to a person using any public park
or public playground in the manner provided and authorized by the authorities
in control of the same.
(Prior Code, § 80.002) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 PERMITS.
   The Fire Chief or a duly authorized representative may issue any permit upon
such reasonable conditions and restrictions as he or she may prescribe to
prevent the spreading or getting beyond control of any fire. Permission
initially may be given verbally and confirmed in the form of a written permit
within 24 hours and such permission, verbal or written, may be revoked in the
discretion of the Fire Chief in cases of extreme danger when such revocation is
clearly necessary for the safety of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 80.003) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966)
§ 92.23 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No persons shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize
any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land, unless:
   (A)   The location is not less than 50 feet from any structure and adequate
provision is made to prevent fire from spreading within 50 feet of any
structure; or
   (B)   The fire is contained in a metal, closed waste burner having a closed
top adequate to prevent sparks from spreading fire to any premises and the
location is a safe place not less than 30 feet from any structure.
(Prior Code, § 80.004) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 SUBSTANCES EMITTING EXCESSIVE SMOKE.
   Excepting where expressly authorized by statute or ordinance, no automobile
tires or other parts of any motor vehicle, waste (or other articles or
substances emitting excessive smoke) shall be kindled or burned without a
permit therefor having been issued by the Fire Chief of said township or a duly
authorized representative. No permit shall be granted, except to prevent
possible great hardship or great loss and then, only, if such burning will not
unduly pollute the atmosphere or premises owned by other persons.
(Prior Code, § 80.005) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 FIRE CHIEF MAY PROHIBIT BUILDING OF FIRES.
   The Fire Chief may prohibit any or all bonfires and/or outdoor rubbish fires
when atmospheric conditions or other conditions make such fires extremely
hazardous. Such restriction shall be promulgated by notice thereof being
published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the township and shall
become effective 24 hours after such publication.
(Prior Code, § 80.006) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966)
§ 92.26 MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have power to modify any of the provisions of
this subchapter upon application in writing by the owner or lessee of premises,
or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in
carrying out the strict letter of this subchapter; provided that, the spirit of
the subchapter shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice
done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Fire Chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the
Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 80.007) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §§
92.01 through
92.05 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this chapter and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses under §§
92.01 through
92.05 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 81.005)
   (C)   (1) Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §§
92.20 through
92.26 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §§
92.20 through
92.26 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The imposition of a civil infraction sanction for any violation
shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and, when not otherwise specified, each ten days that
prohibited conditions are permitted to continue shall constitute a new
violation of §§
92.20 through
92.26 of this chapter.
      (3)   Any person who sets an open fire which necessitates calling the
township’s Fire Department or any other fire department shall pay to the
township all costs and charges incurred by said township by reason of calling
the township’s Fire Department or any other fire department. The township may
sue in any court of competent jurisdiction for civil damages and may recover
such costs and expenses incurred by it from any person, firm, partnership,
association or corporation who sets such an open fire.
(Prior Code, § 80.008) (Ord. 103, passed 4-6-1966; Ord. 125, effective 10-13-
1979; Ord. 96-1, effective 5-9-1996; Ord. 96-3, effective 5-9-1996; Ord. 99-8,
passed 11-11-1999)
CHAPTER 93: DANGEROUS AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Section
Dangerous Substances; Cleanup
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Charges
   
93.04   Billing
   
93.05   Failure to pay
   
93.06   Other remedies
Hazardous Waste Disposal
   
93.20   Definitions
   
93.21   Hazardous material and liquid
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES; CLEANUP
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A greater operational and financial burden is placed upon the township
by persons who own, possess, transport or are otherwise in charge of hazardous
materials or hazardous substances.
   (B)   Emergency responses which involve hazardous materials or hazardous
substances pose a greater threat to public safety, property and the
environment.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to recover the township’s costs for
services provided in response to emergency responses involving hazardous
materials or hazardous substances.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) (Ord. 168, passed 6-13-1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPENSE OF A HAZMAT EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The actual or reasonably calculated
direct or indirect costs of the township or other governmental entity,
including the township’s Fire Department or private individual or corporation
operating at the request or direction of the township or the township’s Fire
Department, when making a HAZMAT emergency response. The EXPENSE OF A HAZMAT
EMERGENCY RESPONSE may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The salary, wages and fringe benefits of the township and/or the
township’s Fire Department personnel, as set from time to time by resolution of
the Township Board;
      (2)   Reasonable charges for the use of township and/or the township’s
Fire Department equipment and resources, as set from time to time by resolution
of the Township Board;
      (3)   Charges for the rental or purchase of machinery and equipment;
      (4)   Fees and costs of contractors, consultants, engineers and
attorneys; and
      (5)   Charges imposed by local, state or federal governmental entities.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any hazardous material, as defined in the Fire
Prevention Code, Public Act 207 of 1941, being M.C.L.A. Chapter 29, as amended,
or as may be so changed by any other state or federal statute or regulation.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. A hazardous substance, as defined in the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as amended, or as may be so changed by any other
state, federal statute or regulation.
   HAZMAT. Hazardous material or hazardous substance, as defined in this
section.
   HAZMAT EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing of services by the township and/or
the township’s Fire Department, or a private individual or corporation
operating at the request or direction of the township and/or the township’s
Fire Department, or a private individual or corporation operating at the
request or direction of the township and/or the township’s Fire Department, in
response to an incident, occurring on public or private property, which
involves hazardous materials or hazardous substances and which may pose threat
to the public health, safety or welfare, or to the environment and which
requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, joint venture, governmental entity (to the extent not prohibited
by law) or other entity which is the owner or operator or is in charge of or in
possession of the property or vehicle to which a HAZMAT emergency response is
directed or whose actions or inactions caused or contributed to causing the
incident which necessitated the HAZMAT emergency response.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or non-motor vehicle, including, but not by way
of limitation, cars, trucks, semi-tractors, motorcycles, vans, trailers,
trains, aircraft, watercraft or earth-moving equipment.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) (Ord. 168, passed 6-13-1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996)
§ 93.03 CHARGES.
   The expense of a HAZMAT emergency response shall be charged against the
responsible party. If there is more than one responsible party, liability shall
be joint and severally. Liability shall not depend upon fault or negligence.
The charges shall constitute a debt of the responsible party(ies) and shall be
collectible by the township in the same manner as an obligation under contract.
The charges imposed under this section shall not limit the liability of the
responsible party under any local ordinance or state or federal law, rule or
regulation.
(Prior Code, § 71.003) (Ord. 168, passed 6-13-1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996)
§ 93.04 BILLING.
   The Township Supervisor, or his or her designee, shall submit a bill for the
expense of a HAZMAT emergency response by first class mail or personal service
to the responsible party. The bill shall require full payment within 30
calendar days from the date of billing. Any additional expenses not included in
the bill shall be billed in the same manner on a subsequent bill to the
responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 71.004) (Ord. 168, passed 6-13-1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996)
§ 93.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   Any failure by a responsible party to pay a bill issued under this
subchapter within 30 calendar days of the date of billing shall be considered a
default. In case of a default, the township shall impose a time price
differential charge on the unpaid amount of 1% per month or fraction thereof
and may commence a civil suit or take any other action permitted at law or in
equity to recover the expenses of a HAZMAT emergency response.
   (B)   If legal action is taken to collect an amount owed under this
subchapter, the township shall be entitled to recover the costs of such legal
action, from the first accrual or notice of the claim through any and all
appellate and post-judgment proceedings, from the responsible party, including
reasonable and actual attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 71.005) (Ord. 168, passed 6-13-1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996)
§ 93.06 OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any remedies provided in this subchapter shall be cumulative of any
other remedies the township may have at law or in equity and shall not limit
the liability of any responsible party under any local ordinance or state or
federal law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   All such remedies may be exercised sequentially or simultaneously.
(Prior Code, § 71.006) (Ord. 168, passed 6-13-1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996)
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 93.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any materials that have been declared to be hazardous
by any agency of the state or of the United States, including, but not limited
to, toxic materials and metal hydroxides.
   LIQUID MATERIALS. Any materials, substance or compound in a liquid, semi-
liquid or jelled state.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. Any operation that is licensed by the state or its
agencies as a sanitary landfill or is subject to the requirement of having such
a license.
   TOWNSHIP. Township of Sparta, Kent County, Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 61.001) (Ord. 136, passed 12-1-1977)
§ 93.21 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL AND LIQUID.
   No hazardous or liquid materials shall be placed or allowed to be placed
within a sanitary landfill by any individual(s), corporation, partnership,
municipal corporation or other entity unless the following provisions are first
met.
   (A)   There are no existing residential structures within 660 feet of the
point where they are placed.
   (B)   There is a uniform two to one by volume mix of sand to hazardous or
liquid material prior to cover and the mix must be completed the same day the
liquid or hazardous material is received.
   (C)   One hour before sundown, each day the hazardous or liquid material
shall be covered with a four-inch dirt cover. Said cover must remain intact and
may not be used for later mix or any other purpose.
   (D)   The area in which the hazardous material is located must be completely
surrounded by a six-foot high fence with a 12-inch barb wire barrier on the top
and must be equipped with gates that can be locked.
   (E)   Hazardous or liquid materials may only be received at a sanitary
landfill between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
   (F)   The gate to the area designated for liquid or hazardous wastes shall
be locked at all times when the area is not open to receive such materials.
   (G)   The area in which the liquid or hazardous material is placed shall
have watchmen or supervisors present 24 hours a day and shall be within said
fenced area at all times and shall directly supervise the dumping of all such
materials.
   (H)   There must be a layer of clay of a minimal thickness of five feet
designed in such a way that all hazardous or liquid material are unable to
escape beyond this barrier into surrounding ground. This barrier must also be
of a bowl type design with sides of the thickness herein stated completely
surrounding the hazardous material or liquid material mass on all sides. The
liquid material and/or hazardous material mass may not be closer to the
original ground level as existing prior to the construction of landfill than
four feet. Said barrier shall be of such a low permeability so as to maintain
integrity of the barrier for 500 years.
   (I)   There must be a PVC liner of 20 mil thickness between the barrier
above provided for and the hazardous or liquid wastes.
   (J)   There must be a separation of at least 12 feet from the liquid or
hazardous material mass and the highest point the water table has been within
the last 50 years.
   (K)   Two test wells shall be drilled within 75 feet of area used directly
for the placement of hazardous and liquid wastes and shall be monitored and
tested monthly for purity and copies of those tests shall be filed with the
Township Clerk within 30 days of taking the samples. The monitoring and testing
of these wells and filing of tests shall continue even after the site is no
longer used.
   (L)   When the area is no longer used for the disposal of liquid and
hazardous materials, the area must be covered with a least four feet of cover
and must be graded and planted with grass and must be in such a state as to be
walked on without any sinking and usable for at least recreational activities.
   (M)   The hazardous or liquid materials are not placed within 500 feet of
any natural or artificial body of water or wet lands.
   (N)   Samples of all liquid or hazardous wastes shall be obtained before
disposal and kept and their origin, date of receipt by landfill, quantity, pH
level and chemical composition shall be disclosed along with the name of the
material and this information shall be recorded and be compiled each month and
a copy filed with the Clerk of the township.
(Prior Code, § 61.002) (Ord. 136, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 174, effective 3-20-
1987) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §§
93.01 through
93.06 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §§
93.01 through
93.06 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 71.007)
   (C)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §§
93.20 and
93.21 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §§
93.20 and
93.21 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 61.004) (Ord. 136, passed 12-1-1977; Ord. 168, effective 6-13-
1986; Ord. 98-6, passed 8-1-1996; Ord. 99-8, passed 11-11-1999)
CHAPTER 94: LIBRARY
Section
Overdue Library Materials
   
94.01   Notice to return materials
   
94.02   Fines collected
 
   
94.99   Penalty
OVERDUE LIBRARY MATERIALS
§ 94.01 NOTICE TO RETURN MATERIALS.
   The Carnegie Township Library, at any time after the due date of library
materials, including books, magazines, pamphlets, manuscripts, pictures,
clippings, exhibits or other library property, may give notice by certified
mail to any overdue borrower at the last address furnished to the Carnegie
Township Library, to return such materials to said library or pay the
reasonable value thereof within 30 days of the date of posting by certified
mail.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 141, passed 9-7-1978)
§ 94.02 FINES COLLECTED.
   Any fines collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be applied
to the cost of the materials that were not returned.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 141, passed 9-7-1978)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   If any overdue borrower, after receiving by certified mail the
notice described in §
94.01 of this chapter, fails within 30 days to return such overdue materials or
pay the reasonable value thereof, such person shall be responsible for
violation of §§
94.01 and
94.02 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §§
94.01 and
94.02 of this chapter, including division (B)(1) above, is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine, the amount of
which shall be set by the township from time to time, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each violation, as authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §§
94.01 and
94.02 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 141, passed 9-7-1978; Ord. 99-8, passed 11-11-
1999)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Requirements
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURIAL SPACE. A lot or portion thereof in any cemetery designed and intended
for the interment of human bodies or of a human body, but not used for such
purpose.
   CEMETERY. Any public cemetery owned, managed or controlled by the township
and any cemetery located within the township.
   GRAVE. A lot or portion thereof in any cemetery designed and intended for
the interment of a human body.
   HEADSTONE. Any marker or monument used to identify the decedent thereunder
interred.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 147, passed 8-2-1979)
§ 95.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A minimum of 18 inches of cover soil must be placed over the container
or vault. The site after burial must be returned to equal or improved
conditions as before opening.
   (B)   There must be placed on the grave six inches of black dirt top soil.
   (C)   There must be a finished grave surface of grass.
   (D)   Dwarf shrubs, small plants, urns or other appropriate ornamental
accessories must be in line with the headstone.
   (E)   Maintenance of dwarf shrubs, small plants, urns or other appropriate
ornamental accessories will be the responsibility of the family of the interred
and will not be included in perpetual care, and any of such that are not
properly maintained shall be removed by the sexton.
   (F)   Headstone footings and foundations must be of a solid design and able
to continuously support the headstone and must be of a minimum depth of three
feet and may be required to a greater depth at the discretion of the sexton or
other individual so appointed by the Township Supervisor in order to provide
for adequate support.
   (G)   Standard safety equipment of such nature as to protect the excavator
is required when opening a grave or burial space and shall remain in place
until the grave or burial space is closed.
   (H)   No wooden boxes are permitted. The minimum acceptable container will
be cement.
   (I)   No glass containers are permitted in a cemetery.
   (J)   No decorative or loose stones, including field stone, shall be placed
around the headstone or flower beds.
   (K)   No fences of any kind are permitted on or near grave sites.
   (L)   Flowers and other ornamentals shall be removed from the cemetery on or
before October 1 of each calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. 147, passed 8-2-1979; Ord. 02-02-A, passed 3-14-
2002) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any provision of
this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township from
time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as authorized
by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 147, passed 8-2-1979; Ord. 99-8, passed 11-11-
1999)
CHAPTER 96: OUTDOOR GATHERINGS
Section
   
96.01   Declaration
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   License required
   
96.04   Application; accompanying material; review
   
96.05   Denial of license
   
96.06   License to be posted; information thereon
   
96.07   Minimum conditions to be met by licensee
   
96.08   Revocation
   
96.09   Violations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DECLARATION.
   The Township Board finds and declares that the interest of the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the township require the
regulation, licensing and control of assemblages or large numbers of people in
excess of those normally drawing upon the health, sanitation, fire, police,
transportation, utility and other public services regularly provided in the
township.
(Prior Code, § 15.001) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDANT. Any person who obtains admission to an outdoor assembly.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY. Hereinafter referred to as ASSEMBLY, means any event,
attended by more than 500 attendants, all or any part of which includes a
theatrical exhibition, public show, display, entertainment, amusement or other
exhibition, including, but not limited to parades, musical festivals, rock
festivals, peace festivals, other festivals, athletic events, car shows, or
similar gatherings, but does not mean:
      (1)   An event which is conducted or sponsored by a governmental unit or
agency on publicly-owned land or property; or
      (2)   Any event held entirely within the confines of a permanently
enclosed and covered structure; or
      (3)   Any event held entirely within property owned by and which is
conducted or sponsored by any entity qualifying for tax exempt status under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1989, as amended.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation, association or
organization.
   SPONSOR. Any person who organizes, promotes, conducts or causes to be
conducted an outdoor assembly.
(Prior Code, § 15.002) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person shall not sponsor, operate, maintain, conduct or promote an outdoor
assembly in the township unless he or she shall have first made application
for, and obtained, as hereinafter prescribed, a license for each such assembly.
(Prior Code, § 15.003) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. passed - -) Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.04 APPLICATION; ACCOMPANYING MATERIAL; REVIEW.
   (A)   Application for a license to conduct an outdoor assembly must be made
in writing on such forms and in such manner as prescribed by the Clerk of the
township and shall be made at least 30 days prior to the date of the proposed
assembly. Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee in
accordance with the township fee schedule and shall include at least the
following:
      (1)   The name, residence and mailing address of the person making the
application; (Where the person making the application is a partnership,
corporation or other association, this information shall be provided for all
partners, officers and directors. Where the person is a corporation, a copy of
the articles of incorporation shall be filed, and the names and addresses shall
be provided of all shareholders having financial interest greater in an amount
as determined by the township from time to time.)
      (2)   A statement of the kind, character and type of proposed assembly;
      (3)   The address, legal description and proof of ownership of the site
or sites at which the proposed assembly is to be conducted. Where ownership is
not vested in the prospective licensee, he or she shall submit an affidavit
from the owner indicating his or her consent to the use of the site for the
proposed assembly;
      (4)   The date or dates and hours during which the proposed assembly is
to be conducted; and
      (5)   An estimate of the maximum number of attendants expected at the
assembly for each day it is conducted and a detailed explanation of the
evidence of admission which will be used for accounting purposes.
(Prior Code, § 15.004)
   (B)   (1)   Each application shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation,
including drawings and diagrams, where applicable, of the prospective
licensee’s plans to provide for the following:
         (a)   Police and fire protection;
         (b)   Food and water supply and facilities;
         (c)   Health and sanitation facilities;
         (d)   Medical facilities and services, including emergency vehicles
and equipment;
         (e)   Vehicle access and parking facilities;
         (f)   Camping and trailer facilities;
         (g)   Illumination facilities;
         (h)   Noise control and abatement;
         (i)   Facilities for clean up and waste disposal; and
         (j)   Insurance and bonding arrangements.
      (2)   In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a map or maps
of the overall site or sites of the proposed assembly.
(Prior Code, § 15.005)
   (C)   On receipt by the Clerk, copies of the application shall be forwarded
to the chief law enforcement and health officers for the township, the state’s
Fire Chief, and to such other appropriate public officials, as the Clerk deems
necessary. Such officers and officials shall review and investigate matters
relevant to the application and within ten days of receipt thereof shall report
their findings and recommendations to the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § 15.006)
   (D)   Within 15 days of the filing of the application, the Township Board
shall issue, set conditions, prerequisite to the issuance of a license, or
where a license is denied, within five days of such action, notice thereof must
be mailed to the applicant by certified mail and, in the case of denial, the
reasons therefor shall be stated in the notice.
(Prior Code, § 15.007) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. 174, effective 3-20-
1987; Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.05 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A license may be denied if:
   (A)   The applicant fails to comply with any or all requirements of this
chapter, or with any or all conditions imposed pursuant hereto, or with any
other applicable provision of state or local law; or
   (B)   The applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement in the application or in any supporting document.
(Prior Code, § 15.008) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.06 LICENSE TO BE POSTED; INFORMATION THEREON.
   A license shall specify the name and address of the licensee, the kind and
location of the assembly, the maximum number of attendants permissible, the
duration of the license and any other conditions imposed pursuant to this
chapter. It shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises of the
assembly and shall not be transferred to any other person or location.
(Prior Code, § 15.009) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.07 MINIMUM CONDITIONS TO BE MET BY LICENSEE.
   In processing an application, the Township Board shall, at a minimum,
require the following.
   (A)   Security personnel. The licensee shall employ, at his or her own
expense, such security personnel as are necessary and sufficient to provide for
the adequate security and protection of the maximum number of attendants at the
assembly and for the preservation of order and protection of property in and
around the site of the assembly. No license shall be issued unless the chief
law enforcement officer for the township, in cooperation with the County
Sheriff, is satisfied that such necessary and sufficient security personnel
will be provided by the licensee for the duration of the assembly.
   (B)   Water facilities. The licensee shall provide potable water, sufficient
in quantity and pressure to assure proper operation of all water using
facilities under conditions of peak demand. Such water shall be supplied from a
public water system, if available, and, if not available, then from a source
constructed, located and approved in accordance with state law, and the rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, in accordance with any other
applicable state or local law, or from a source and delivered and stored in a
manner approved by the county’s Health Department.
   (C)   Restroom facilities.
      (1)   The licensee shall provide separate enclosed flush-type water
closets as defined by state law, and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto and in accordance with any other applicable state or local law. If such
flush-type facilities are not available, the county’s Health Department may
permit the use of other facilities which are in compliance with state law, and
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any
other applicable state or local law.
      (2)   The licensee shall provide lavatory and drinking water facilities
constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with state law and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any
other applicable ordinance or statute. All lavatories shall be provided with
water, soap and paper towels.
      (3)   The number and type of facilities required shall be determined, on
the basis of the number of attendants, in the following manner:
 
Facilities
   Drinking fountai1:500
   Toilets         1:300
 
   (D)   Medical facilities. If the assembly is not readily and quickly
accessible to adequate existing medical facilities, the licensee shall be
required to provide such facilities on the premises of the assembly. The kind,
location, staff, strength, medical and other supplies and equipment of such
facilities shall be as prescribed by the township’s Fire Chief.
   (E)   Liquid waste disposal. The licensee shall provide for liquid waste
disposal in accordance with all the rules and regulations pertaining thereto
established by the county’s Health Department. If such rules and regulations
are not available or if they are inadequate, then liquid waste disposal shall
be in accordance with the United States Public Health Service Publication No.
526, entitled Manual of Septic Tank Service. If liquid waste retention and
disposal is dependent upon pumpers and haulers, they shall be licensed in
accordance with state law, and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, and in accordance with any other applicable state or local law, and
prior to issuance of any license, the licensee shall provide the township’s
Health Officer with a true copy of an executed agreement in force and effect
with a licensed pumper or hauler, which agreement will assure proper, effective
and frequent removal of liquid waste from the premises so as to neither create,
nor cause a nuisance or menace to the public health.
   (F)   Solid waste disposal.
      (1)   The licensee shall provide for solid waste storage on, and removal
from, the premises. Storage shall be in approved, covered and rodent-proof
containers, provided in sufficient quantity to accommodate the number of
attendants. Prior to issuance of any license, the licensee shall provide the
township’s Health Officer with a true copy of an executed agreement in force
and effect with a licensed refuse collector, which agreement will assure
proper, effective and frequent removal of solid waste from the premises so as
to neither create nor cause a nuisance or menace to the public health unless
another method approved by the county’s Health Department is shown.
      (2)   The licensee shall implement effective control measures to minimize
the presence of rodents, flies, roaches and other vermin on the premises.
Poisonous materials, such as insecticides or rodenticides shall not be used in
any way so as to contaminate food, equipment or otherwise constitute a hazard
to the public health. Solid waste containing food waste shall be stored so as
to be inaccessible to vermin. The premises shall be kept in such condition as
to prevent the harborage or feeding of vermin.
   (G)   Public bathing beaches. The licensee shall provide or make available
or accessible public bathing beaches only in accordance with state law, and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any
other applicable provision of state or local law.
   (H)   Public swimming pools. The licensee shall provide or make available
public swimming pools only in accordance with state law, and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any other
applicable provision of state or local law.
   (I)   Access and traffic control. The licensee shall provide for ingress to
and egress from the premises so as to ensure the orderly flow of traffic onto
and off of the premises. Access to the premises shall be from a highway or road
which is a part of the county system of highways or which is a highway
maintained by the state. Traffic lanes and other space shall be provided,
designated and kept open for access by ambulance, fire equipment, helicopter
and other emergency vehicles. Prior to the issuance of a license, the county’s
Sheriff Department and the township’s Fire Chief must approve the licensee’s
plan for access and traffic control. There must be at least two accesses to a
public road or one access route approved by the township’s Fire Chief.
   (J)   Parking. The licensee shall provide a parking area sufficient to
accommodate all motor vehicles, but in no case shall he or she provide less
than one automobile space for every four attendants, and no parking shall be
allowed on any public road or right-of-way.
   (K)   Camping and trailer parking. A licensee who permits attendants to
remain on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall
provide for camping and trailer parking and faculties in accordance with the
state traffic code, and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and
in accordance with any other applicable provision by state or local law.
   (L)   Illumination. The licensee shall provide electrical illumination of
all occupied areas sufficient to ensure the safety of all attendants. The
licensee’s lighting plan shall be approved by the township’s Electrical
Engineer.
   (M)   Insurance. The licensee shall obtain public liability and property
damage insurance in amounts specified by the Township Board from a company or
companies approved by the state’s Commissioner of Insurance, which insurance
shall insure liability for death or injury to persons or damage to property
which may result from the conduct of the assembly or conduct incident thereto
and which insurance shall remain in full force and effect in the specified
amounts for the duration of the license. The evidence of insurance shall
include an endorsement to the effect that the insurance company shall notify
the Township Clerk in writing at least ten days before the expiration or
cancellation of said insurance.
   (N)   Bonding. Before the issuance of a license, the licensee shall obtain,
from a corporate bonding company authorized to do business in the state, a
corporate surety bond in the amount specified by the Township Board in a form
to be approved by the Township Attorney, conditioned upon the licensee’s
faithful compliance with all of the terms and provisions of this chapter and
all applicable provisions of state or local law, and which shall indemnify the
township, its agents, officers, and employees and the Town Board against any
and all loss, injury or damage whatever arising out of or in any way connected
with the assembly and which shall indemnify the owners of property adjoining
the assembly site for any costs attributable to cleaning up and/or removing
debris, trash or other waste resultant from the assembly, and any person or
property damage done by attendants of the outdoor assembly.
   (O)   Fire protection. The licensee shall, at his or her own expense, take
adequate steps as determined by the state’s Fire Marshal, to ensure fire
protection.
   (P)   Sound producing equipment. Sound producing equipment, including but
not limited to public address systems, radios, phonographs, musical instruments
and other recording devices, shall not be operated on the premises of the
assembly so as to be unreasonably loud or raucous, or so as to be a nuisance or
disturbance to the peace and tranquility of the citizens of the township and in
no case shall the decibel level exceed 60 decibels between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 11:00 p.m., and 50 decibels between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m. at the nearest public road.
   (Q)   Access gates. There will be sufficient gates properly located so as to
provide ready and safe ingress and egress.
   (R)   Miscellaneous. Prior to the issuance of a license, the Township Board
may impose any other condition(s) reasonably calculated to protect the health,
safety, welfare and property of attendants or of citizens of the township.
(Prior Code, § 15.010) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978, Ord. passed - -) Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.08 REVOCATION.
   The Township Board may revoke a license whenever the licensee or his or her
employees or agents fails, neglects or refuses to fully comply with any and all
provisions and requirements set forth herein or with any and all provisions,
regulations, ordinances, statutes or other laws incorporated herein by
reference.
(Prior Code, § 15.011) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978, Ord. passed - -)
§ 96.09 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee or his or her employee or agent to
knowingly:
   (A)   Advertise, promote or sell tickets to, conduct, or operate an assembly
without first obtaining a license as herein provided;
   (B)   Conduct or operate an assembly in such a manner as to create a public
or private nuisance;
   (C)   Conduct or permit, within the assembly, any obscene display,
exhibition, show, play, entertainment or amusement;
   (D)   Permit any person on the premises to cause or create a disturbance in,
around, or near the assembly by obscene or disorderly conduct;
   (E)   Permit any person to unlawfully consume, sell, or possess intoxicating
liquor while on the premises; and/or
   (F)   Permit or allow any person to unlawfully use, sell, or possess any
narcotics, narcotic drugs, drugs or other substances, as defined by state law.
(Prior Code, § 15.012) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978, Ord. passed - -) Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, firm or, other entity who violates any
provision of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to payment of a civil fine in accordance with the Township Fee
Schedule, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as authorized by
§
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It is further provided that any of the above violations is a
sufficient basis for revocation of the license and for the enjoining in the
Circuit Court of the assembly.
(Prior Code, § 15.012) (Ord. 140, effective 9-7-1978; Ord. 99-8, passed 11-11-
1999, Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 97: RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
Watercraft on Squaw Lake
   
97.01   Title
   
97.02   Slow–no wake speed
 
   
97.99   Penalty
WATERCRAFT ON SQUAW LAKE
§ 97.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “Squaw Lake Watercraft Control Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 41.001) (Ord. 97-1, passed 7-29-1997)
§ 97.02 SLOW–NO WAKE SPEED.
   (A)   On the waters of Squaw Lake, Section, Town 9 North, Range 12 West, in
the township, it is unlawful for the operator of a vessel to exceed a slow–no
wake speed.
   (B)   The boundaries of the area described immediately above shall be marked
with signs and with buoys. All buoys must be placed as provided in a permit
issued by the Department of Natural Resources and be in conformance with the
state’s Uniform Waterway Marking System.
(Prior Code, § 41.002) (Ord. 97-1, passed 7-29-1997) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
97.01 and
97.02 of this chapter or who shall fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder pursuant thereto,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each and every violation of non-
compliance. Punishment shall be by a fine in an amount as set by the township
from time to time, or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects immediately.
(Prior Code, § 41.003) (Ord. 97-1, passed 7-29-1997)
CHAPTER 98: PUBLIC PROPERTY AND MEETING DISRUPTION
Section
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Offenses
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Sparta Township Public Property and
Meeting Disruption Ordinance.”
(Ord. 22-03, passed 12-8-2022)
§ 98.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall disturb, disrupt or interfere with any township public
meeting or assemblage.
   (B)   No person shall unreasonably interrupt, disrupt, disturb or interfere
with the work or services of township officials, officers or employees at or
within the township offices.
   (C)   No person shall create, make or excite any disruption, disturbance or
contention at a township public meeting where citizens are peacefully and
lawfully assembled.
   (D)   Where a person conducts himself or herself in a threatening,
disorderly or disruptive matter at a public township meeting and, after notice
from the presiding officer, persists therein, then the presiding officer may
order the threatening, disorderly or disruptive person to leave the meeting,
and upon the person’s refusal to do so, that person shall be in violation of
this chapter and may be removed by a law enforcement officer.
   (E)   No person shall issue a threat of physical assault or violence against
or as to any township official, officer, employee or agent at or within the
township offices.
   (F)   No person, by act or word, shall threaten to cause physical harm or
physical contact to any township official, officer, employee or agent at a
public township meeting or at the township offices.
   (G)   A person may be ejected or excluded from a public township meeting if
the person violates this chapter, or disrupts or creates a breach of the peace
at a public meeting.
   (H)   A person who violates divisions (B), (E) or (F) above may be ejected
or removed from the township offices. Failure of that person to leave the
township offices shall also be a violation of this chapter.
   (I)   A person who violates divisions (A), (C), (D), (F) or (G) above may be
ejected or removed from the public township meeting involved. Failure of that
person to leave the public meeting shall also be in violation of this chapter.
   (J)   Any person who has violated any of the above divisions or has been
found responsible for any such violation by a court of competent jurisdiction
may be barred or prohibited from visiting or being present in the township
offices or attending a township public meeting for a time period not to exceed
one year at the direction of the Township Board, or for any time period allowed
by law pursuant to the directive of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 12-8-2022)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 12-8-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
112.   MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
      
113.   MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNITS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Application for new license
   
110.02   Restrictions on license
   
110.03   Term of license
   
110.04   License hearing
   
110.05   Definition
   
110.06   Authority to issue
   
110.07   Competing applications
   
110.08   Objections to renewal and request for revocation
§ 110.01 APPLICATION FOR NEW LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for license to sell beer and wine or spirits for
consumption on the premises including, but not limited to, temporary permits
and the transferring of a license from one site to another shall be made to the
Township Board in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent thereof, if a partnership or corporation, verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following statements and information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; or, in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and, if a
majority interest in the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his or her nominee, the name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in this application and the
disposition of such application;
      (7)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or the laws of the state; and
      (8)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States or any ordinances of the township in the
conduct of its business.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by building and plat plans
showing the entire structure and premises and in particular the specific areas
where the license is to be utilized. The plans shall demonstrate adequate off-
street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities and, where appropriate,
adequate plans for screening and noise control.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.02 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person whose license, under this chapter, has been revoked for
cause;
   (B)   A person who, at the time of application or renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (C)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall qualify to obtain a license;
   (D)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or a stock
owner or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such
corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason;
   (E)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (F)   A person, copartnership or corporation who has been convicted of a
violation of any federal or state law concerning the manufacture, possession or
use or sale of alcoholic liquor;
   (G)   A person who does not own or have an option to purchase the premises
for which a license is sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full
period for which the license is issued;
   (H)   Any law enforcing public official within the county or any member of
the Township Board, and no such official shall be interested in any way either
directly or indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor;
   (I)   For premises where there exists a violation of the applicable
Building, Electrical, Mechanical, Plumbing or Fire Codes, applicable zoning
regulations, applicable public health regulations or any violations of any
ordinances of the township or state statute or rule or regulations of any
agency thereof;
   (J)   For premises where it is determined by a majority of the Township
Board that the premises do not or will not reasonably soon after commencement
of operations have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal
facilities, screening, noise or nuisance control; and
   (K)   Where the Township Board determines, by majority vote, that the
proposed location is inappropriate considering the desirability of establishing
a location in developed, commercial areas, in preference to isolated,
undeveloped areas; the attitude of adjacent residents and property owners;
traffic safety; accessibility to the site from abutting roads; capability of
abutting roads to accommodate the commercial activity; distance from public or
private schools for minors; proximity of the inconsistent zoning
classification; and accessibility from primary roads or state highways.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.03 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Approval of a license shall be for a period of one year subject to annual
renewal by the Township Board upon continued compliance with the regulations of
this chapter. Approval of a license shall be with the understanding that any
necessary remodeling or new construction for the use of the license shall be
commenced within six months of the action of the Township Board or the state’s
Liquor Control Commission approving such license, whichever last occurs. Any
unusual delay in the completion of such remodeling or construction may subject
the license to revocation.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.04 LICENSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Township Board shall grant a public hearing upon the license
application.
   (B)   Following such hearing, the Board shall submit to the applicant a
written statement of its findings and determination. The Board’s determination
shall be based upon satisfactory compliance with the restrictions set forth in
§
110.02 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.05 DEFINITION.
   The term PERSON, as used herein, shall include a partnership and/or a
corporation.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.06 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be construed to require the township or the
Township Board to issue a license that may be available due to the population
of the township.
   (B)   Whether a license should be issued shall be determined in the sole
discretion of the Township Board, and the Township Board may submit the issue
as to whether such available license should be issued at all to any applicant
to the voters of the township located outside the limits of any incorporated
village or city for an advisory vote concerning the same.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.07 COMPETING APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Where there are competing applications for an available liquor
license, the Township Board may choose which of such applicants, if any, should
receive approval for such license.
   (B)   In making such determination, the Township Board may consider, but not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Zoning of parcel and adjacent parcels;
      (2)   Availability to utilities;
      (3)   Location of churches, schools or other places of public assembly;
      (4)   What uses will be conducted with the license;
      (5)   Traffic on adjacent streets and the existence of any traffic
hazards in the area or produced by the applicant’s proposed use;
      (6)   Economic backing of applicant sufficient to conduct such a use;
      (7)   The design and layout of improvements of the applicant for his or
her proposed use;
      (8)   Effect upon existing adjacent uses;
      (9)   The location of other licensed establishments as it relates to
potential traffic effects or hazards; and
      (10)   Any information contained in the application or requirements of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 16.001) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
§ 110.08 OBJECTIONS TO RENEWAL AND REQUEST FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Before filing an objection to renewal or request for revocation of
a license with the state’s Liquor Control Commission, the Township Board shall
serve the license holder, by first class mail, mailed not less than ten days
prior to hearing with notice of a hearing, which notice shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Notice of proposed action;
         (b)   Reasons for the proposed action;
         (c)   Date, time and place of hearing; and
         (d)   A statement that the licensee may present evidence and testimony
and confront adverse witnesses.
      (2)   Following hearing, the Township Board shall submit to the license
holder and the Commission a written statement of its findings and
determination.
   (B)   Criteria for non-renewal or revocation. The Township Board shall
recommend non-renewal or revocation of a license upon a determination by it
that, based upon a preponderance of the evidence presented at hearing, either
of the following exist:
      (1)   Violation of any of the restrictions on licenses set forth in §
110.02 of this chapter;
      (2)   Maintenance of a nuisance upon the premises; or
      (3)   Fraudulent information provided upon original application or
application for renewal.
(Prior Code, § 16.002) (Ord. 152, passed 4-7-1983)
CHAPTER 111: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Conflict
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Permit required
   
111.05   Issuance of permit
   
111.06   Conduit or utility poles
   
111.07   Route maps
   
111.08   Repair of damage
   
111.09   Maintenance fee
   
111.10   Modification of existing fees
   
111.11   Savings clause
   
111.12   Use of funds
   
111.13   Annual report
   
111.14   Cable television operators
   
111.15   Existing rights
   
111.16   Compliance
   
111.17   Reservation of police powers
   
111.18   Authorized township officials
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and on-going use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.)
(“Act”) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the township qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Prior Code, § 17.001) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 17.002) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.), as amended
from time to time.
   AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3103.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term “Commission”
in the Act.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this chapter
to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
township for its telecommunications faculties.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal, state or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in § 102 of the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179
of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include
a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed
commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of the
Communications Act of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further
defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or service
provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of the
Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
      (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
      (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Sparta.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Township Board or its designee. This section does not
authorize delegation of any decision or function that is required by law to be
made by the Township Board.
   TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR. The Township Supervisor or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 17.003) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
township (excluding the village) for its telecommunications facilities shall
apply for and obtain a permit pursuant to the Act and this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(1). A telecommunications provider shall file one copy
of the application with the Township Clerk, one copy with the Township
Supervisor and one copy with the Township Attorney. Applications shall be
complete and include all information required by the Act, including without
limitation a route map showing the location of the provider’s existing and
proposed facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3106(5). Construction permits from the county’s Road Commission shall be
obtained in addition to the permit under this chapter.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5),
the telecommunications provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of
each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee,
the amount of which shall be set by the township from time to time.
   (E)   Additional information. The Township Supervisor may request an
applicant to submit such additional information which the Township Supervisor
deems reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all
such requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the Township Supervisor. If the township and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the township, the township or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as
provided in § 6(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(2).
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(1), authorizations or permits previously issued by the
township under § 251 of the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of
1991,being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the
township to telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251
of the state’s Telecommunications act, but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3105(3), within 180 days from 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, a
telecommunications provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in
the township as of such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or
a permit under § 251 of the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of
1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2101 et seq., shall submit to the township an
application for a permit in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(3), a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division (G)
is not required to pay the application fee required under division (D) above. A
provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an additional 180 days to
submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in § 5
(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(4).
(Prior Code, § 17.004) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Township Supervisor. Pursuant to § 15
(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), the Township Supervisor shall
approve or deny an application for a permit within 45 days from the date a
telecommunications provider files an application for a permit under §
111.04(B) of this chapter for access to a public right-of-way within the
township (excluding the Village of Sparta). Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(6), the Township Supervisor shall notify the MPSC
when the Township Supervisor has granted or denied a permit, including
information regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date
on which permit was granted or denied. The Township Supervisor shall not
unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Township
Supervisor shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §
111.04(A) and (B) of this chapter and § 15 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3115.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115
(4), the Township Supervisor may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit,
which conditions shall be limited to the telecommunications provider’s access
and usage of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3115(3), and without limitation on division (C) above, the Township
Supervisor may require that a bond be posted by the telecommunications provider
as a condition of the permit. If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the
reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunications provider’s access
and use.
(Prior Code, § 17.005) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.06 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(3), obtaining a
permit or paying the fees required under the Act or under this chapter does not
give a telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Prior Code, § 17.006) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.07 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(7), a
telecommunications provider shall, within 90 days after the substantial
completion of construction of new telecommunications facilities in the
township, submit route maps showing the location of the telecommunications
facilities to both the MPSC and to the township. The route maps should be in
paper or electronic format unless and until the MPSC determines otherwise, in
accordance with § 6(8) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(8).
(Prior Code, § 17.007) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.08 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(5), a
telecommunications provider undertaking an excavation or construction or
installing telecommunications faculties within a public right-of-way or
temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the township, as authorized by
a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the street surface and all
installations under, over, below or within the public right-of-way and shall
promptly restore the public right-of-way to its preexisting condition.
(Prior Code, § 17.008) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.09 MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the township set
forth in §
111.04(D) of this chapter, a telecommunications provider with
telecommunications facilities in the township’s public rights-of-way as
provided in this chapter shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the Authority
pursuant to § 8 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108.
(Prior Code, § 17.009) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.10 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3113(1), the township hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees
charged to telecommunications providers after 11-1-2002, the effective date of
the Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount
not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which
shall be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4)
of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4), the township also hereby approves
modification of the fees of providers with telecommunication facilities in
public rights-of-way within the township’s boundaries, so that those providers
pay only those fees required under § 8 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108.
The township shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by the fee
with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13(4) of
the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484-3113(4). To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the township’s policy and intent and, upon
application by a provider or discovery by the township, shall be promptly
refunded as having been charged in error.
(Prior Code, § 17.010) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(5), if sections of
the Act is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees
under §
111.10 of this chapter shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Prior Code, § 17.011) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.12 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(4), all amounts
received by the township from the Authority shall be used by the township
solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
(Prior Code, § 17.012) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.13 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Township Supervisor shall file an annual report with the Authority on
the use and disposition of funds annually distributed by the Authority, if
required under § 10(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(5).
(Prior Code, § 17.013) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(6), the township
shall not hold a cable television operator in default or seek any remedy for
its failure to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay after 11-1-2002, the
effective date of this Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of
gross revenues from charges the cable operator received for cable modem
services provided through broadband internet transport access services.
(Prior Code, § 17.014) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(2), except as
expressly provided herein with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect
any existing rights that a telecommunications provider or the township may have
under a permit issued by the township or under a contract between the township
and a telecommunications provider related to the use of the public rights-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 17.015) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.16 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The township hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting
this chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act and the
provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose.
   (B)   The township shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
111.04(C) of this chapter to the extent permitted by law;
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter, in accordance with §
111.04(C) of this chapter to the extent permitted by law;
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the application fee,
in accordance with §
111.04(G) of this chapter;
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the township, in
accordance with §
111.05(A) of this chapter;
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the township has granted or denied a
permit, in accordance with §
111.05(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
111.05(A) of this chapter;
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
111.05(B) of this chapter;
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
111.05(C) of this chapter;
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
111.05(D) of this chapter;
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with the Act;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the
township’s right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
111.10 of this chapter;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
111.13 of this chapter; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
111.14 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.016) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(2), this chapter
shall not limit the township’s right to review and approve a telecommunication
provider’s access to and on-going use of a public right-of-way or limit the
township’s authority to ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of
the public.
(Prior Code, § 17.017) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.18 AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS.
   The Township Supervisor or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized township official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17.019) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction which
shall be punishable by a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the
township from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation,
as authorized by §
10.99 of this chapter and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses under this
chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as provided by §
10.99 of this chapter. In addition to any remedies available at law, the
township may bring an action for an injunction or other process against a
person to restrain, prevent or abate any violation of this chapter. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to the township
in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Prior Code, § 17.020) (Ord. 02-06, passed 10-10-2002)
CHAPTER 112: MARIJUANA BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Establishments and facilities prohibited
   
112.04   Rights unaffected by chapter
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Sparta Township
Marijuana Establishments and Facilities Ordinance”.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 1-10-2019)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IHRA. The Industrial Hemp Research Act, Public Act 547 of 2014, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 286.841 et seq.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in the MRTMA.
   MARIJUANA FACILITY. As defined in the MMFLA.
   MMFLA. The Medical Marijuana Facilities Licensing Act, Public Act 281 of
2016, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq., as amended.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marijuana Act, 2008 IL 1, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq., as amended.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marijuana Act, 2018 IL 1,
being M.C.L.A. § 333.27951, as amended.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 1-10-2019)
§ 112.03 ESTABLISHMENTS AND FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 6 of the MRTMA, being M.C.L.A. § 333.27956, marijuana
establishments are prohibited within the boundaries of the township.
   (B)   Marijuana facilities are also prohibited within the boundaries of the
township.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 1-10-2019) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RIGHTS UNAFFECTED BY CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or other person under § 5 of the MRTMA being M.C.L.A. § 333.27955.
   (B)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of a marijuana
facility outside of the township to engage in activities within the township
that it is permitted to engage in under the MMFLA within a municipality that
has not authorized marijuana facilities to operate within its boundaries.
   (C)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of registered
qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers under the MMMA or the
MMFLA.
   (D)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or other person under the IHRA.
   (E)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or other person under any other federal or state law, rule or
regulation related to the medical use of marijuana.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 1-10-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter constitutes a municipal civil infraction.
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any provision of this chapter, or any amendment thereof, or any person who
knowingly or intentionally aids or abets another person in violation of this
chapter, shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be responsible for a
civil infraction. The civil fine for a municipal civil infraction shall be not
less than $100 for the first offense and not less than $200 for subsequent
offenses, in the discretion of the court, in addition to all other costs,
damages, expenses and remedies provided by law. For purposes of this section,
SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of the provisions of this chapter
committed by the same person within 12 months of a previous violation of the
same provision of this chapter or similar provision of this chapter for which
said person admitted responsibility or was adjudged to be responsible. Each day
during which any violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Anyone who assists another in violating this chapter, or who aids and
abets another in violation of this chapter, shall also be deemed to be in
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to the above-mentioned remedies, the township is also
authorized (at its option and discretion) to pursue a civil lawsuit to enforce
and/or ensure compliance with this chapter in the county’s Circuit Court.
   (D)   This chapter may be enforced by the Township Zoning Administrator, the
Township Building Inspector, the Township Zoning Enforcement Officer, a Deputy
Sheriff and such other township official or agent as the Township Board may
designate from time to time by resolution.
   (E)   A violation of this chapter is also hereby declared to be a nuisance
per se and is declared to be offensive to the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 19-1, passed 1-10-2019)
CHAPTER 113: MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNITS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit required
   
113.03   Application
   
113.04   Review of application and issuance of permit
   
113.05   Permit categories
   
113.06   Fees
   
113.07   Expiration
   
113.08   Limitation on transfer of permits
   
113.09   Exceptions
   
113.10   Locations
   
113.11   Hours of operation
   
113.12   Regulations
   
113.13   Revocation
   
113.14   Appeals
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING. Vending, serving, or offering for sale food and/or
beverages from a mobile food vending unit, which may include the ancillary
sales of other items consistent with the food provided, such as a tee shirt
that bears the name of the organization engaged in mobile food vending.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT. Any motorized or non-motorized vehicle, trailer,
table or other similar device, designed to be portable and not permanently
attached to the ground, from which food is vended, served, or offered for sale.
   OPERATE. All activities associated with the conduct of business, including
set up and take down and/or actual hours where the mobile food vending unit is
open for business.
   VENDOR. Any individual or group of individuals engaged in the business of
mobile food vending. If more than one individual is operating a single stand,
cart, or other means of conveyance, then VENDOR shall mean all individuals
operating such single stand, cart, or other means of conveyance.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food vending unit in
this township without first obtaining a permit as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION.
   A person who intends to operate a mobile food vending unit shall make
written application for a permit to the Township Zoning Administrator. The
application for a permit shall be on forms provided by the Township Zoning
Administrator, and shall include the following:
   (A)   Name, signature, business address, telephone number, and email contact
information of the applicant;
   (B)   Information on the mobile food vending unit, including a copy of the
current vehicle registration and dimensions, which shall not exceed 36 feet in
length or ten feet in width;
   (C)   A plan that includes information setting forth the proposed locations
of operation, dates of operation, hours of operation, plans for power access,
water supply and wastewater disposal, and written property use agreements, if
applicable;
   (D)   Copies of all necessary licenses or permits issued by the county and
the state;
   (E)   Insurance coverage.
      (1)   Proof of a commercial liability insurance policy with limits of no
less than $1,000,000 combined, single-limit coverage issued by an insurer
licensed to do business in this state, and which names the township as an
additional insured;
      (2)   Proof of a commercial auto policy with bodily injury and property
damage with limits of no less than $1,000,000 per accident issued by an insurer
licensed to do business in this state;
   (F)   At the time of filing the application, a fee as established by
resolution to cover the cost of the review and administrative processing, no
part of which shall be refundable;
   (G)   A signed statement that the licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless
the township, its officers and employees, for any claims, damages, or injuries
to persons or property that arise out of any activity by the licensee, its
employees or agents, carried on under the terms of the license;
   (H)   Any event or festival desiring to operate an event or a festival
featuring mobile food vending units shall make written application for a permit
to the Township Zoning Administrator, and include all the information required
for individual mobile vending units in the event or festival application.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.04 REVIEW OF APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the original shall be forwarded to the
Township Zoning Administrator, for review as to compliance with all applicable
laws and ordinances. A background check may be completed as part of the
application review.
   (B)   If as a result of such review or background check the application is
found not to be in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances, the
Township Zoning Administrator shall endorse on the application disapproval and
the reasons for disapproval, and shall notify the applicant that the
application is disapproved and no permit will be issued.
   (C)   If as a result of such review the application is satisfactory, the
Township Zoning Administrator shall approve the application. Upon payment of
the prescribed fee, the Township Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit. All
such permits shall contain the signature of the Township Zoning Administrator,
and shall show the name and address of the applicant, a description of the
mobile food vending unit, the amount of the fee paid, and the expiration date
of the permit.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.05 PERMIT CATEGORIES.
   (A)   Individual. This permit category is for one vendor operating one
mobile food vending unit.
   (B)   Event/Festival. This permit category is for an event or a festival
that will have multiple mobile food vending units on site for a designated time
frame in association with an approved event or festival in this township.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.06 FEES.
   An applicant for a mobile food vending unit permit shall pay an annual fee
as established by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.07 EXPIRATION.
   Each mobile food vending permit shall expire on December 31 in the year of
issuance. There shall be no proration of fees.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.08. LIMITATIONS ON TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter shall not be transferable from
person to person, nor from business to business, from vendor to vendor, from
event to event, or from festival to festival, or any combination thereof.
   (B)   A permit is valid for one mobile food vending unit and shall not be
transferred between mobile food vending units.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   A permit issued under this chapter shall not be required for any school-
sponsored mobile food vending unit operating on school property. Not-for-profit
groups that operate mobile food vending units on an infrequent and irregular
basis and on private property are exempt from permitting under this chapter.
Restaurants that operate a permanent business physically present in the
township are also exempt under this chapter while mobile vending on their own
private property, but they shall not subcontract or hire such vendors in an
attempt to evade this chapter. Mobile food vending that occurs entirely
indoors, located inside a building or within a courtyard hidden from the
general public is exempt under this chapter. Groups and individuals who are
exempt under this chapter from permitting must still receive written permission
from this township before operating on public property.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.10 LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Appropriate locations for mobile food vending units shall be limited
to the areas as stated in a resolution of the Township Board or to private
property with a written agreement signed by the property owner. The use of
other public areas, including on-street parking, is prohibited, without
exception, without written permission from this township.
   (B)   Mobile food vending units may not be parked and shall not operate
within 200 feet (measured to the property boundary) of any restaurant when it
is open to the public for business, unless written permission has been acquired
from all restaurants within the radius. This does not apply to a restaurant
already physically present in this township on a permanent basis, from mobile
vending on its own private property.
   (C)   Mobile food vending units are not permitted within 1,000 feet
(measured to the property boundary) of any fair, festival, special event, civic
event, or other event with township-approved community event status, unless
written permission from the event coordinator is obtained.
   (D)   The issuance of a mobile food vending unit permit does not grant or
entitle the vendor to the exclusive use of any service route or space.
   (E)   Mobile vending units must be setback a minimum of 20 feet off the
property line of any public road and must be a minimum of 50 feet away from the
property line of any residential property. Mobile vending units may not operate
on a single-family residential property unless as noted in §
113.10(F).
   (F)   Events, parties, or other activities on private property that require
catering or a food truck on site are exempted from this requirement as long as
food is not served to the general public and is limited to the event on private
property.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Mobile food vending units shall be permitted to operate on public
property between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., unless specifically authorized by
this township as part of an event or a festival. Mobile food vending units may
only operate within residential zoned areas between the hours of 9:00 a.m, and
9:00 p.m., and in commercially zoned areas between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m. Any mobile food vending unit shall be stored indoors or outside of
this township when it is not operating.
   (B)   A mobile food vending unit shall not be parked overnight on public
property or left unattended and unsecured at any time food is in the vehicle.
Any mobile food vehicle unit found to be unattended shall be considered a
public safety hazard and may be ticketed and impounded. Mobile food vending
units parked on public property as part of a township-approved event or
festival are allowed to park overnight with the permission from the event or
festival organizer.
   (C)   Mobile food vending units shall be permitted to operate on private
property during the hours of operation of the primary use business and shall
not operate as an accessory use before or after the primary use business is
open for business. The private property owner may dictate that the hours for
mobile vending operations are less than their business hours
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Customers of mobile food vending units shall be provided with single-
service articles such as plastic utensils and paper plates.
   (B)   All mobile food vending units shall provide a waste container for
public use that the vendors shall empty at their own expense. All on-site trash
and garbage originating from the operation of mobile food vending units shall
be collected and disposed of off-site each day by the operators. Spills of food
or food byproducts shall be cleaned up and no dumping of gray water is
permitted.
   (C)   No mobile food vending unit shall make or cause to be made any
unreasonable or excessive noise. The operation of all mobile food vehicles
shall meet this township noise ordinance, including generators. No loud music,
other high-decibel sounds, horns, “crying out” or any other audible methods to
gain attention are permitted.
   (D)   Signage is permitted when placed on mobile food units, so long as it
does not extend above or beyond the mobile vending unit itself. One
freestanding temporary sign of no more than six square feet in residential
districts or 24 square feet in commercial or industrial districts is permitted,
but the signage must be located entirely within 20 feet of the mobile vending
unit. The vendor will secure permission from the property owner prior to
displaying a sign. The vendor must otherwise follow this township’s sign
ordinance, including regulations for sandwich-board signs.
   (E)   No flashing, blinking or strobe lights or related signage are allowed
on mobile food vending units at any time. All exterior lights with over 60
watts shall contain opaque hood shields to direct the illumination downward.
   (F)   Awnings for mobile food vehicles shall have a minimum clearance of
seven feet between the ground level and the lowest point of the awning.
Seating, tables, waste disposal or cleaning apparatus of the vendor shall be
located within 20 feet of the vending unit and shall not constitute a danger or
impedance to the public.
   (G)   Any power required for the mobile food vending unit shall be self-
contained; a mobile food vending unit shall not use utilities drawn from the
public right-of-way. Mobile food vending units on private property may use
electrical power drawn from the property being occupied or an adjacent
property, but only if the property owner provides written consent to do so. No
power cable or equipment shall be extended at or across any township street,
alley, or sidewalk.
   (H)   The vendor shall make the mobile food vending unit permit available
for inspection by any member of law enforcement or the Township Zoning
Administrator at any time the vendor is operating.
   (I)   The vendor shall follow all local, state and federal laws, rules and
regulations in their operation of the mobile vending unit. A permit obtained
under this chapter shall not relieve the vendor of the responsibility for
obtaining any other permit or authorization required by other ordinance,
statute, or administrative rule.
   (J)   The vendor shall not represent the granting of a permit under this
chapter to be in any way an endorsement by this township.
   (K)   All permits and licenses shall be prominently displayed on the mobile
food vending unit.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Township Zoning Administrator after notice and hearing, by a preponderance
of the evidence for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for a permit or made in the course of operating a mobile food
vending unit;
      (2)   Conducting the business of a mobile food vending unit in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   Failure to possess or maintain any required food safety licensure.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the applicant
at the address provided at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (C)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be immediately
suspended by any law enforcement or health safety officer or the Township
Zoning Administrator prior to notice and hearing, if continued operations of
the mobile vending unit would be harmful to the health or safely of the general
public. Any permit suspended under this section shall remain suspended until
such time as a notice and hearing may take place regarding the truth of the
accusation made regarding the health or safety effects of the mobile vending
unit.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.14 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Township Zoning Administrator, law
enforcement or health safety officer in the denial of an application for a
mobile vending permit, or in the decision with reference to the revocation or
suspension of a permit as provided in this chapter, shall have the right of
appeal to the Township Board. The appeal shall be taken by filing with the
Board, within 14 days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed
to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The Township Board shall set a time and place for a
hearing on the appeal, and a notice of the hearing shall be given the appellant
in the same manner as provided for notice of a hearing on revocation. The
decision and order of the Township Board on the appeal shall be final and
conclusive.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, persons who violate any of the
provisions of this chapter are responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
Each day that a violation exists shall be considered a new and separate offence
and shall have imposed a new and separate municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 23-3, passed 1-1-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   SITE CONDOMINIUMS
      
153.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   LAND SUBDIVISION
      
156.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Construction Board of Appeals
   
150.01   Creation; membership
   
150.02   Duties
   
150.03   Hearings
   
150.04   Notice of hearings
   
150.05   Variances from state’s Construction Code
   
150.06   Appeals of interpretations
Adoption of Codes; Officials
   
150.20   International Fire Code
   
150.21   National Electrical Code; Electrical Official
   
150.22   Building Code
   
150.23   Mechanical Code
   
150.24   Plumbing Code; Plumbing Official
Dangerous and Unsafe Buildings
   
150.35   Maintenance of dangerous buildings
   
150.36   Definition
   
150.37   Notice
   
150.38   Hearing officer
   
150.39   Township Board hearing
   
150.40   Civil enforcement; action
   
150.41   Appeal
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Historical Commission, see §§
30.25 through
30.34
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 150.01 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Construction Board of Appeals is hereby created for the township.
   (B)   The Construction Board of Appeals consists of three members.
   (C)   The members of the Board of Appeals shall be appointed for two-year
terms. Appointments shall be made by the Township Supervisor. Each member of
the Board of Appeals shall be qualified by experience or training to perform
the duties of members of the Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals shall elect
one member as its Chairperson. A person may serve on the Board of Appeals of
more than one governmental subdivision.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 150.02 DUTIES.
   (A)   If a dispute arises, applicants for permits should be made aware of
their recourse and the necessary steps to have their appeal or request for a
variance heard by the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   If an enforcing official refuses to grant an application for a
building or similar permit, an interested person or the person’s authorized
agent may appeal in writing to the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal and render and file its
decision with a statement of reasons for the decision with the enforcing
official from whom the appeal was taken not more than 30 days after submission
of the appeal. Failure by the Board of Appeals to hear an appeal and file a
decision within the time limit is a denial of the appeal for purposes of
authorizing the institution of an appeal to the state’s Construction Code
Commission. A copy of the decision and statement of the reasons for the
decision shall be delivered or mailed, before filing, to the party taking the
appeal.
   (D)   The Construction Board of Appeals may establish further rules and
procedures beyond those contained in this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 150.03 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Hearings shall be conducted on an as needed basis and in an impartial
manner. If a party fails to appear after proper service of notice of a hearing,
the Board may proceed with the hearing and make its decision in the absence of
the party, or may postpone the hearing, keeping in mind that a decision must be
rendered within 30 days from the date of the appeal. If a quorum of the
Construction Board of Appeals (in other words, majority of the members) is not
present, the appealing party should be given the right to request a
postponement of the hearing.
   (B)   Interested parties served with a notice of hearing may file written
answers before the date set for the hearing. Parties shall be given an
opportunity to present oral and written arguments on the issues of law and
policy and an opportunity to present evidence and argument on issues of fact. A
party may cross-examine a witness, including the author of a document prepared
by, on behalf of, or for use of the enforcing body and offered in evidence. A
party may submit rebuttal evidence.
   (C)   The Chairperson or a designated person should act as the presiding
officer and may do any or all of the following:
      (1)   Administer oaths and affirmations;
      (2)   Regulate the course of the hearings; and
      (3)   Direct parties to confer to consider simplification of the issues
by the consent of the parties.
   (D)   The business which the Board of Appeals may perform shall be conducted
at a public meeting of the Board of Appeals held in compliance with Public Act
267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275. Public notice of the
time, date and place of the meeting shall be given in the manner required by
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275.
   (E)   A record of decisions made by the Board of Appeals, properly indexed,
and any other writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or retained
by the Board of Appeals in the performance of an official function shall be
made available to the public in compliance with Public Act 442 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 150.04 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   Interested parties (in other words, the appealing party and the owners
of all properties within 300 feet of the property involved in the appeal) in an
appeal or variance proceeding must be properly notified of the hearing and
given reasonable notice of the hearing.
   (B)   The notice shall include:
      (1)   A statement of the date, hour, place and nature of the hearing;
      (2)   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held;
      (3)   A reference to the particular section(s) of statutes, rules or
codes involved; and
      (4)   A short statement of the matters asserted.
   (C)   (1)   Notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the hearing. A
proof of delivery accompanying the notice will provide proof of service.
      (2)   A certification of mailing completed by the person distributing
hearing notices shall provide documentation that notices were mailed.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 150.05 VARIANCES FROM STATE’S CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   After a public hearing, the Board of Appeals may grant a specific
variance to a substantive requirement of the code if the literal application of
the substantive requirement would result in an exceptional, practical
difficulty to the applicant and, if both of the following requirements are also
satisfied:
      (1)   The performance of the particular item or part of the building or
structure with respect to which the variance is granted shall be adequate for
its intended use and shall not substantially deviate from performance required
by the code of that particular item or part for the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the state; and
      (2)   The specific condition justifying the variance shall be neither so
general nor recurrent in nature as to make an amendment of the code with
respect to the condition reasonably practical or desirable.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Appeals may attach in writing any condition in
connection with the granting of a variance that, in its judgment, is necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the state.
      (2)   The breach of a condition shall automatically invalidate the
variance and any permit, license and certificate granted on the basis of it.
      (3)   In no case shall more than the minimum variance from the code be
granted than is necessary to alleviate the exceptional, practical difficulty.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 150.06 APPEALS OF INTERPRETATIONS.
   An application for appeal due to an interpretation shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of the code or the rules governing construction have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of the code do not apply or an equal or
better form of construction is proposed.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 8-10-2017)
ADOPTION OF CODES; OFFICIALS
§ 150.20 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The International Fire Code, 2012 Edition,
including App. Ch. A through J inclusive, as promulgated and published by the
International Code Council, Inc., and any referenced National Fire Protection
Agency (NFPA) codes, are adopted by reference as the Fire Code of the township,
and are made a part of this section as if fully set forth herein, subject to
the modifications provided in this section and subject to such further
modifications as the township may from time to time adopt.
   (B)   Available for public inspection. A complete copy of the International
Fire Code, 2012 Edition, including Ch. A through J, and any referenced National
Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) codes, are available for public use, inspection
and purchase at the offices of the Township Clerk.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   Whenever the words “jurisdiction” or “governmental unit” are used
in the International Fire Code, 2012 Edition, or in any referenced National
Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) codes, they shall mean the township.
      (2)   Whenever the word “state” is used in the International Fire Code,
2012 Edition, or in any referenced National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA)
codes, it shall mean the “State of Michigan”. Whenever the word “governing
body” is used in the International Fire Code, 2012 Edition, or in any
referenced National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) codes, it shall mean the
Township Board.
   (D)   Amendments to Fire Code. The following sections of the International
Fire Code, 2012 Edition, are revised to read as follows.
(1)   Section 101.1 shall read:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the Township
of Sparta, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
(2)   Section 103.2 shall read:
103.2 Appointment. As used in this code, the term “fire code official” shall
refer to the Fire Chief of the Township of Sparta, or such other individual as
the Fire Chief may from time to time designate.
(3)   Section 108.1 shall read:
108.1 Board of Appeals. All appeals under this code shall be brought before the
Township of Sparta Construction Board of Appeals, which Board is authorized and
has jurisdiction to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or
determinations made by the fire code official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, using the rules of procedure adopted by the
Construction Board of Appeals.
(4)   Section 108.3 is deleted.
(5)   Section 109.3 shall read:
109.3 Violation Penalties. Persons who violate a provision of this code or fail
to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who erect, install, alter,
repair or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine, the amount of which shall be set by the Township from time to time, or by
imprisonment not to exceed 92 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each
day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed
a separate violation.
(6)   Section 111.4 shall read:
111.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue work after having been
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to
perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a fine,
the amount of which shall be set by the Township from time to time.
(7)   Section 113.2 shall read:
113.2 Schedule or permit fees. A fee for each permit shall be paid as required,
in accordance with a schedule established from time to time by resolution of
the Township Board.
(8)   Section 307 shall read:
Section 307 Open Burning. See the applicable sections of the Sparta Township
ordinances.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-14-2013) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE; ELECTRICAL OFFICIAL.
   (A)   (1)   Adoption of National Electrical Code. Pursuant to the provisions
of state law, and in particular the township hereby elects to adopt by
reference the National Electrical Code, 2015 Edition, and to enforce the same
within the township limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.001)
      (2)   Administration. The Building Inspector of the township is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibilities of the
township under this division (A).
(Prior Code, § 91.002)
      (3)   Fees. Prior to the issuance of a permit required under said
National Electrical Code and Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, a fee shall be
paid in accordance with the amount as determined by the Township Board by
resolution from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 91.003)
      (4)   Registration of license.
         (a)   No person shall engage in the business of installing, altering
or repairing, within the township, any electric wiring, devices or equipment
for the installation, alteration or repair of which a permit is required unless
such person shall have registered his or her state license, or a license issued
by any other governmental agency licensing electrical contractors, with the
Township Clerk.
         (b)   Such registration with the Township Clerk shall be on payment as
determined by the Township Board by resolution from time to time, and shall
extend for a period of one year, which shall be from July 1 until June 30, or
from the date of registration until the next June 30, or until the expiration
of the electrician’s license.
         (c)   No person shall be issued a permit for the installation,
alteration or repair of any electric wiring, devices or equipment unless he or
she is registered as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 91.004)
      (5)   Cost determined. The cost of the proposed electrical improvements
shall be determined by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 91.008)
      (6)   Refund of permit fee. No permit fee shall be refunded once paid.
(Prior Code, § 91.009)
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Electrical Code, in
accordance with § 9 of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531 as amended, the Electrical Official of the township is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the
township under Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531.
      (2)   The township assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 93.101) (Ord. 4-91, effective 5-18-1991; Ord. 98-6, effective 5-
27-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to § 9 of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended
(the “Act”), being M.C.L.A. §§ 25.1501 through 125.1531, the township assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the state’s Building
Code throughout its corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 92.001)
   (B)   Administration and enforcement. The township hereby assumes
responsibility for administration and enforcement of said Act throughout the
township.
(Prior Code, § 92.002)
   (C)   Enforcing agency. The Building Inspector’s office is hereby designated
the enforcing agency that shall discharge the responsibility under M.C.L.A. §
123.957.
(Prior Code, § 92.003) (Ord. 171, passed 10-2-1986; Ord. 99-6, passed 10-14-
1999) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23 MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to § 9 of Act 230 of 1972, as amended (the
“Act”), being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, the township assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the state’s Mechanical
Code throughout its corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 93.001)
   (B)   Administration and enforcement. The township hereby assumes
responsibility for administration and enforcement of said Act throughout the
township.
(Prior Code, § 93.002)
   (C)   Enforcing agency. The Building Inspector’s office of the township is
hereby designated the enforcing agency that shall discharge the responsibility
under Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531.
(Prior Code, § 93.003) (Ord. 173, passed 10-2-1986; Ord. 99-6, passed 10-14-
1999) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24 PLUMBING CODE; PLUMBING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provision of the state’s Plumbing Code, in accordance
with § 9 of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, the Plumbing Official of the township is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under
Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531.
   (B)   The township assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 93.051) (Ord. 98-1, passed 3-4-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 MAINTENANCE OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
private dwelling, two-family dwelling, or part thereof in the township which is
a DANGEROUS BUILDING, as defined in §
150.36 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 82.001) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 DEFINITION.
   As used herein, DANGEROUS BUILDING means a building or structure that has
one or more of the following defects or is in one or more of the following
conditions:
   (A)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit that does
not conform to the approved fire code of the township in which the building or
structure is located;
   (B)   A portion of the building or structure damaged by fire, flood, wind or
any other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the building or
structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe and does not
meet the minimum requirement of this section or a Building Code of the township
for a new building or similar structure, purpose or location;
   (C)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become detached
or dislodged, or collapse and injure persons or damage property;
   (D)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an extent
that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure have
materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by §§
150.35 through
150.41 of this chapter or the Building Code of the township;
   (E)   The building or structure or a part of the building or structure
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reasons, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way;
   (F)   The building, structure or a part of the building or structure is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is designed;
   (G)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood and is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a harbor
for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance of unlawful or immoral acts;
   (H)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes including the adjoining grounds because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement or otherwise is unsanitary or unfit
for human habitation, is in a condition that the health officer determines is
likely to cause sickness or disease or is likely to injure the health, safety
or general welfare of those living within;
   (I)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and open at any door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers; and
   (J)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease or rent with a real estate broker licensed under article 25 of the
occupational code, Public Act 229 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2501 to
339.2515. For purposes of this subdivision, BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes, but
is not limited to, a commercial building or structure. This division (J) does
not apply to either of the following:
      (1)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both of
the following:
         (a)   Notifies a local law enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction
the building or structure is located that the building or structure will remain
unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days. The notice shall be given to
the local law enforcement agency by the owner or agent not more than 30 days
after the building or structure becomes unoccupied; and
         (b)   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with this subchapter or a Building Code of the
township.
      (2)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied for
a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies a local law
enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction the dwelling is located that the
dwelling will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days or more
each year. An owner who has given the notice prescribed by this division (J)(2)
shall notify the law enforcement agency not more than 30 days after the
dwelling no longer qualifies for this exception. As used in this division (J)
(2), SECONDARY DWELLING means a dwelling such as a vacation home, hunting cabin
or summer home that is occupied by the owner or a member of the owner’s family
during part of a year.
(Prior Code, § 82.002) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993)
§ 150.37 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, if a building
or structure is a dangerous building, the Building Inspector shall issue a
notice that the building or structure is a dangerous building.
The notice shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee or to each owner or
party in interest in the building in whose name the property appears on the
last tax assessment records.
   (B)   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on whether
the building or structure is a dangerous building. The person to whom the
notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause at the hearing as
to why the hearing officer should not order the building or structure to be
demolished, made safe or otherwise properly maintained.
   (C)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom the notice is directed, either personally or by certified mail-return
receipt requested-addressed to the owner or party in interest at the address
shown on the tax records. If a notice is served on a person by certified mail,
a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a conspicuous part of the
building or structure. The notice shall be served upon the owner or party in
interest at least ten days before the date of the hearing included in the
notice.
(Prior Code, § 82.003) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993)
§ 150.38 HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The hearing officer shall be appointed by the Township Supervisor to
serve at his or her pleasure. The hearing officer shall be a person who has
expertise in housing matters, including, but not limited to, an engineer,
architect, building contractor, building inspector or member of a community
housing organization. An employee of the township shall not be appointed as
hearing officer.
   (B)   At the hearing, the hearing officer shall take testimony of the
building inspector, the owner of the property if present and any interested
party. Not more than five days after the hearing the hearing officer shall
render a decision either closing the proceedings or ordering the building or
structure to be demolished, made safe or otherwise properly maintained.
   (C)   If the hearing officer determines that the building or structure
should be demolished, made safe, or otherwise properly maintained, the hearing
officer shall so order fixing a time in the order for the owner, agent or
lessee to comply with the order. If the building or structure is a dangerous
building under §
150.36(J) of this chapter, the order may require the owner or agent to maintain
the exterior of the building and adjoining grounds owned by the owner of the
building including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees and
shrubs.
   (D)   If the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses
to comply with the order, the hearing officer shall file a report of the
findings and a copy of the order with the Township Board not more than five
days after non-compliance by the owner and request that the necessary action be
taken to enforce the order. A copy of the findings and order of the hearing
officer shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed
in §
150.36(C)(4) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 82.004) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993)
§ 150.39 TOWNSHIP BOARD HEARING.
   (A)   The Township Board, upon receiving the findings and order of the
hearing officer, shall fix a date not less than 30 days after the hearing
prescribed in §
150.38 of this chapter, for a hearing on the findings and order of the hearing
officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent or lessee in the manner
prescribed in §
150.36(D) of this chapter, of the time and place of the hearing.
   (B)   At the hearing, the owner, agent or lessee shall be given the
opportunity to show cause why the order should not be enforced. The Township
Board shall either approve, disapprove or modify the order for the demolition
of or making safe the building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 82.005) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993)
§ 150.40 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT; ACTION.
   (A)   If the Township Board approves or modifies the order, the Board shall
take all necessary action to enforce the order. If the order is approved or
modified, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply with the order within 60 days
after the date of the hearing. In the case of an order of demolition, if the
Township Board determines that the building or structure has been substantially
destroyed by fire, wind, flood or other natural disaster, and the cost of
repair of the building or structure will be greater than the state equalized
value of the building or structure, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply
with the order of demolition within 21 days after the date of the hearing.
   (B)   The cost of the demolition, of making the building or structure safe,
or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure, or grounds
adjoining the building or structure incurred by the township to bring the
property into conformance with this subchapter shall be reimbursed to the
township by the owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (C)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified by the Assessor of the
amount of the cost of the demolition, of making the building safe or of
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the
building or structure by first class mail at the address shown on the records.
If the owner or party in interest fails to pay the cost within 30 days after
mailing by the Assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, the township
shall have a lien for the costs incurred by the township to bring the property
into conformance with this Act. The lien shall not take effect until notice of
the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by law. A lien provided for in
this division (c) does not have priority over previously filed or recorded
liens and encumbrances. The lien for the cost shall be collected and treated in
the same manner as provided for property tax liens under the General Tax Act,
Public Act 206 of 1893, being M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 to 211.157.
   (D)   In addition to other remedies under this Act, the township may bring
an action against the owner of the building or structure for the full cost of
the demolition, of making the building safe or of maintaining the exterior of
the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or structure. The
township shall have a lien on the property for the amount of a judgment
obtained pursuant to this division (D). The lien provided for in this section
shall not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or recorded as provided
by law. The lien does not have priority over prior filed or recorded liens and
encumbrances.
   (E)   A judgment in an action brought pursuant to division (D) above may be
enforced against assets of the owner other than the building or structure. The
township shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment obtained pursuant to
division (D) above against the owner’s interest in all real property located in
the state that is owned in whole or in part by the owner of the building or
structure against whom the judgment is obtained. A lien provided for in this
section does not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or recorded as
provided by law, and the lien does not have priority over prior filed or
recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Prior Code, § 82.006) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993)
§ 150.41 APPEAL.
   An owner or party in interest aggrieved by any final decision or order of
the Township Board may appeal the decision or order to the Circuit Court by
filing a petition for an order of superintending control within 20 days from
the date of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 82.008) (Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or entity who shall violate any provision of §
150.21(A) of this chapter shall, upon conviction of such violation, be punished
by a fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township from time to time,
or by imprisonment of not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   Each day of which any such violation shall continue shall be
constituted a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.007)
   (C)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §
150.21(B) of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the
township from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation,
as authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §
150.21(B) of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 93.101)
   (D)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §
150.22 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §
150.22 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 92.006)
   (E)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §
150.23 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §
150.23 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 93.006)
   (F)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §
150.24 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §
150.24 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 93.054)
   (G)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any
provision of §§
150.35 through
150.41 of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township
from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under §§
150.35 through
150.41 of this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 82.007) (Ord. 171, passed 10-2-1986; Ord. 173, passed 10-2-1986;
Ord. 4-91, effective 5-18-1991; Ord. 93-4, effective 10-21-1993; Ord. 98-1,
passed 3-4-1998; Ord. 98-10, passed 9-10-1998; Ord. 99-6, passed 10-14-1999;
Ord. 99-8, passed 11-11-1999)
CHAPTER 151: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Prior approval requirement
   
151.05   Application for land division approval
   
151.06   Review of applications
   
151.07   Standards for approval
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Township Land Division
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the state’s
Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended, formerly known as the “Subdivision Control Act”) (the
“Land Division Act”), to prevent the creation of parcels of property which do
not comply with applicable ordinances and said Act, to minimize potential
boundary disputes, to maintain orderly development of the community and to
otherwise provide for the health, safety and welfare of the residents and
property owners of the township by establishing reasonable standards for prior
review and approval of land divisions within the township.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any words or terms used in this chapter which are not defined in this
section or other provisions of this chapter shall be defined according to their
common meaning or definition; except that, those terms defined in the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended, shall have the same meaning in this chapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
other legal entity or combination of any of them that holds an ownership
interest in land whether recorded or not.
      DIVIDE or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results
in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the Land Division Act.
      EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a
parcel or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs,
executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that
does not result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   Land in the township shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Township Assessor, or other official designated by the Township
Board, in accordance with this chapter and the Land Division Act; provided
that, the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the state’s Land Division Act;
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
Land Division Act; and
   (C)   An exempt split, as defined in this chapter and as provided in the
Land Division Act.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Township Assessor or
other official designated by the Township Board for review and approval of a
proposed land division before making any division either by deed, land
contract, lease for more than one year, or for building development:
   (A)   A completed application form on such form as may be approved by the
Township Board;
   (B)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
   (C)   A tentative parcel map drawn to scale that complies with Public Act
132 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§ 54.211 et seq., as amended, including an
accurate legal description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary
lines, approximate dimensions, and the accessibility of each division for
automobile traffic and public utilities, and other items as may be required by
the township’s application form;
   (D)   Proof that all standards of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of
1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended and this chapter
have been met;
   (E)   If a transfer of division rights is proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer; and
   (F)   An application fee as established from time to time by resolution of
the Township Board to cover the costs of review of the application and
administration of this chapter and the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of
1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.06 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The township shall approve or disapprove the land division applied for
within 45 days after receipt of a complete application conforming to this
chapter’s requirements and the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended, and shall promptly notify the
applicant of the decision and, if denied, the reasons for denial.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Assessor or
designee may, within 30 days of said decision, appeal the decision to the
Township Board (or such other body or person designated by the Township Board)
which shall consider and resolve such appeal by a majority vote of said Board
or by the appellate designee at its next regular meeting or session affording
sufficient time for a 20-day written notice to the applicant (and appellant
where other than the applicant) of the time and date of said meeting and
appellate hearing.
   (C)   The Assessor or designee shall maintain an official record of all
approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances or regulations.
   (E)   The township and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a division if building permits for construction on the parcels are
subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise and any notice of approval shall include a statement to
this effect.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   A proposed land division reviewable by the township shall be approved if the
following criteria are met.
   (A)   All parcels created by the proposed division(s) shall fully comply
with the applicable lot area and lot width requirements of Ch. 154 of this code
of ordinances for the zoning district(s) in which such parcels are located.
   (B)   Each resulting parcel shall have the width to depth ratio specified by
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances for the zoning district(s) in which such
resulting parcel is located. In the absence of any designation by Ch. 154 of
this code of ordinances, each resulting parcel which is less than ten acres in
size shall have a depth which is not more than four times the width of the
parcel. The width and depth of the resulting parcel shall be measured in the
same manner provided by Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances for measuring the
width and depth of lots.
   (C)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of this
chapter and the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
   (D)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, for public utilities and
emergency and other vehicles.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the township tax roll or
assessment roll. The township shall further have the authority to initiate
injunctive or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any
violation of this chapter. Any division of land in violation of this chapter
shall further not be eligible for any zoning or building permit for any
construction or improvement thereto.
   (B)   In addition, any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction which shall be punishable by a civil fine, the amount of which
shall be set by the township from time to time, along with costs which may
include all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the township has been put
in connection with the municipal civil infraction. A violator of this chapter
shall also be subject to such additional sanctions and judicial orders as are
authorized under state law. Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject
to increased fines in the amounts as provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 2-8-2001)
CHAPTER 152: SITE CONDOMINIUMS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Objective
   
152.002   Short title
   
152.003   Scope
   
152.004   Purpose
   
152.005   Applicability
   
152.006   Definitions
Review and Approval Procedures
   
152.020   General
   
152.021   Preliminary discussion
   
152.022   Preliminary development requirements
   
152.023   Planning Commission public hearing and project review
   
152.024   Township Board Step I review; project plan
   
152.025   Township Board Step II review; project plan
   
152.026   Final plan approval
   
152.027   Effect of approval
   
152.028   Required content
Required Improvements
   
152.040   Conformance with zoning
   
152.041   Streets
   
152.042   Water and sanitary sewer
   
152.043   Other required improvements
   
152.044   Cost distribution of oversized improvements
General Requirements for All Projects
   
152.055   Master plan
   
152.056   Streets
   
152.057   Lots
   
152.058   Block lengths
   
152.059   Public easements
   
152.060   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.061   Performance guarantees
   
152.062   Inspection and specifications
   
152.063   Condominium PUD
   
152.064   Mobile home projects
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.075   Variances; procedure
   
152.076   General administration
   
152.077   Enforcement
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 OBJECTIVE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures for the orderly use and
development of property which results in the creation of five or more lots, as
defined herein, and which is not otherwise regulated by
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 101.010) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Site Condominium Ordinance” of the
township.
(Prior Code, § 101.011) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.003 SCOPE.
   The scope of this chapter is to adopt minimum standards and procedures
required in the preparation and presentation of plans for the development of
lots not otherwise subject to
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances and the state’s Subdivision Control Act of
1967 (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as
amended). This chapter also identifies minimum standards for the development of
property in the township; and sets forth procedures to be followed by the
township in applying these rules, regulations and standards; and prescribing
penalties for the violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.012) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.004 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to insure that plans for the use and
development of all property within the township, unless such development is
controlled and provided for by
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances, shall be reviewed with the objective and
intent of achieving the same characteristics and land use results as if the
proposed development and improvements were being proposed under
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition, this chapter is adopted to accomplish the following:
      (1)   To further the orderly layout and development of property within
the township;
      (2)   To require that land be suitable and suitably improved for building
sites;
      (3)   To provide for adequate drainage;
      (4)   To prevent the premature development of land; to provide for proper
ingress and egress to all parts of such development;
      (5)   To promote proper surveying and legal descriptions;
      (6)   To provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and traffic
movement;
      (7)   To insure against the creation of unsafe or undesirable conditions;
      (8)   To conserve the value of property;
      (9)   To regulate the density of development in relation to the
availability of, or the lack of, utilities services;
      (10)   To conserve energy and natural features;
      (11)   To carry out the purpose and intent of the township’s master plan
and
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances;
      (12)   To establish rules and procedures for the rational development of
land within the township;
      (13)   To provide for the adoption of improvement standards; and
      (14)   To provide penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.013) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.005 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to any project which results in the creation of
five or more site condominium units, each of which is ten acres or less in
area, whether such development is accomplished in one phase or in successive
phases within a period of ten years. This chapter shall not apply to the
development of land wherein such development results in site condominium units
which are more than ten acres in area.
(Prior Code, § 101.014) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following terms are defined in a manner intended to make
comparison possible between the terms of
Ch. 151, this chapter and
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances, and also in the context of Public Act 59 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended (sometimes referred
to herein as the “Condominium Act”).
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The area of a condominium project within which a
condominium structure may be constructed, together with any accessory
structures, as described in the master deed for the condominium project. In a
single-family residential site condominium project, the BUILDING ENVELOPE
refers to the area of each condominium unit within which the dwelling and any
accessory structures may be built.
      CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A condominium project developed under the
Condominium Act.
      CONDOMINIUM STRUCTURE. The principal building or structure intended for
or constructed upon a site condominium unit, together with any attached
accessory structures (such as, in a residential development, the condominium
structure would refer to the house and any attached garage).
      MASTER DEED. The legal document prepared and recorded pursuant to Public
Act 59 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, to which
is attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the approved by-laws for
the project and the approved condominium subdivision plan for the project.
      PROJECT. A proposal made to the township, subject to this chapter, for
the use or development of property.
      SETBACK - FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD. The distance measured from the
respective front, side and rear yard boundary lines associated with the site
condominium unit to the respective front, side and rear of the condominium
structure/building envelope.
      SITE CONDOMINIUM UNIT. A condominium unit established in compliance with
the Condominium Act which consists of an area of vacant land and a volume of
vacant air space, designed and intended for separate ownership and use as
described in the site condominium project master deed, and within which a
building or other improvements may be constructed by the condominium unit
owner.
      SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. The Sparta Township Land Subdivision Ordinance (
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances).
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the following words and
phrases, as well as any other words or phrases used in this chapter which are
specifically defined in the Condominium Act, shall conform to the meanings
given to them in that Act: “common elements”; “limited common elements”;
“condominium documents”; “condominium unit”; and “general common elements”.
(Prior Code, § 101.000) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 152.020 GENERAL.
   Application for review and approval of a proposed project subject to this
chapter shall be in accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   Prior to formal application, the developer should meet with the
Planning Commission to inform the Planning Commission of the applicant’s intent
to initiate a project regulated by this chapter. Before this meeting, the
applicant should submit the following to the Township Clerk who shall
distribute it to all Planning Commissioners, the Township Supervisor and may
distribute to the Engineer, Township Planner or Attorney as deemed necessary:
      (1)   A sketch drawn to scale, indicating the general location and
configuration of the property to be developed; the alignment and type of
streets and site condominium units; and the relationship of the proposed
project to adjacent streets and neighboring properties;
      (2)   In a project to be located in the Ag-1 Zone, the site sketch shall
show any and all farms within one-half mile of the site; and
      (3)   A statement providing information regarding utilities, soil,
drainage and other similar information.
   (B)   During the preliminary discussion meeting, the Planning Commission,
may generally discuss with the proprietor the following:
      (1)   General requirements of this chapter and
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances;
      (2)   Planned or anticipated sites of parks and recreation areas and
other public uses;
      (3)   Utility system capabilities;
      (4)   Planned or anticipated public improvements, including streets,
utility extensions and the like;
      (5)   Major street plans and potential problems relative to the natural
features of the area including, but not limited to, floodplains, soil
conditions, topography and ground water tables;
      (6)   Existence of farms on the surrounding property, which includes the
possibility that future residents of the project may experience unwanted farm
production practices, such as noises, smells, fertilizers and pesticides; and
      (7)   Additional information which will assist the applicant in
proceeding in a reasonable and sound manner toward final approval of the
project.
(Prior Code, § 101.030) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.021 PRELIMINARY DISCUSSION.
   Preliminary discussions are intended for information purposes only and do
not constitute binding commitments on the part of the township. Neither do they
imply tentative approval of any subsequent project plans. Furthermore, such
discussions shall not carry the authority to proceed with construction or to
sell or transfer property.
(Prior Code, § 101.031) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.022 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for preliminary review of a project plan, subject to
this chapter, shall be made to the Township Clerk along with the appropriate
fees as required by Township Board resolution. The application shall, at a
minimum, contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address and phone number;
      (2)   Proof that the applicant is the owner of the property or has a
legal or financial interest in the property such as an option or a purchase
agreement;
      (3)   The name, address and phone number of the owner(s) of record if
different than the applicant;
      (4)   The address and/or parcel number of the property;
      (5)   Project description; and
      (6)   Gross and net size of the parcel in acres.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide at least ten copies of the preliminary
site plan and additional copies if deemed necessary by the Clerk. The plans
shall contain the information required for preliminary site plans as required
by this chapter.
   (C)   The application and plans shall be submitted at least three weeks
before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the preliminary site plans, the Clerk shall forward
one copy to each member of the Planning Commission and may forward a copy to
the Township Engineer, Township Attorney and Township Planner for consideration
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. The
Township Planner and Township Engineer shall report to the Planning Commission
on any suggestions or recommended changes, if requested by township officials.
(Prior Code, § 101.032) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.023 PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING AND PROJECT REVIEW.
   (A)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the preliminary project plan. The hearing shall be noticed in accordance with
the following procedures.
      (1)   Notices. Upon receipt of the application, one notice that a request
for a site condominium has been received shall be published within a newspaper
of general circulation within the township. An additional notice shall be sent
by mail or by personal delivery to all owners of property to whom real property
is assessed as indicated in the township records and to all occupants of all
structures within 300 feet of the boundary of the property that is the subject
of the application and to the petitioner.
      (2)   Notice timing. Such notice must be given no less than five days,
nor more than 15 days, before the date the application will be considered.
      (3)   Notification items. The notice shall include the following:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the project requested;
         (b)   Indicate the property which is subject of the request;
         (c)   State when and where the request will be considered; and
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Commission review.
      (1)   In reviewing the project plan, the Planning Commission shall give
particular attention to the requirements of §§ 152.040 through 152.044 of this
chapter. If the project plan meets the requirements of this chapter, the
Planning Commission shall give it preliminary approval. The Secretary of the
Planning Commission shall forward one copy of the project plan along with a
notation indicating preliminary approval and any recommendations to the
Township Board for Step I approval.
      (2)   If the project plan does not meet the requirements of this chapter,
the Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   Deny project plan approval, setting forth the reasons in
writing; or
         (b)   Grant project plan approval contingent upon completion of the
revisions as noted.
      (3)   The Secretary of the Planning Commission shall forward the Planning
Commission’s recommendations to the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § 101.033) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.024 TOWNSHIP BOARD STEP I REVIEW; PROJECT PLAN.
   After receipt of the project plan and recommendations from the Planning
Commission, the Township Board shall consider the project plan at its next
meeting, or within 20 days from the date of receipt from the Planning
Commission. The Township Board shall act upon the project plan within 90 days
filing with the Township Clerk.
   (A)   The Township Board shall consider the project plan along with the
recommendations of the Planning Commission. If the plan meets the project plan
requirements of this chapter, the Board shall grant Step I project plan
approval. The Township Clerk shall sign the plan with the notation that it has
received Step I approval and the applicant shall be so notified. Step I
approval shall give the applicant the following rights for a one-year period
from the date of approval:
      (1)   The general terms and conditions under which Step I approval was
granted will not be changed by the township;
      (2)   The site condominium units, orientation and street layout have been
approved; and
      (3)   The Step I approval may be extended for not more than one year if
applied for by the applicant prior to the one-year expiration date and granted
by the Township Board in writing.
   (B)   If the project plan substantially meets the requirements of this
chapter, the Township Board may grant tentative approval of Step I. This
approval shall be conditioned upon the submission of such changes, revisions or
additional material as is determined to be necessary to complete Step I. Upon
the submission of such changes, revisions or additional material to the
Township Board, the project plan shall be granted unconditional Step I approval
and the applicant shall be so notified. The initial one-year period set forth
in division (A) above begins on the date the Township Board grants tentative
approval hereunder.
   (C)   If the project plan does not meet the requirements of this chapter,
the Township Board shall deny Step I approval and shall notify the applicant
along with the reasons for denial.
   (D)   If the information required for Step II approval as contained in §
152.025 of this chapter is submitted during Step I review, the Township Board
may grant Step II approval if all such requirements are met.
(Prior Code, § 101.034) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.025 TOWNSHIP BOARD STEP II REVIEW; PROJECT PLAN.
   (A)   Following Step I approval, the applicant shall submit the site plans
to the following agencies for their review and approval:
      (1)   County Health Department;
      (2)   County Road Commission;
      (3)   County Drain Commission;
      (4)   State Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   Other appropriate state and county review and enforcement agencies
having direct approval or permitting authority over all or part of the
project’s construction phases.
   (B)   The project plan shall be corrected to reflect the recommendations of
the Planning Commission and the above agencies. The applicant shall then submit
the necessary copies of the project plan to the Township Clerk along with a
completed application form for Step II approval and any fee established by the
Township Board. The applicant shall also submit the following:
      (1)   Documentation that the above agencies have approved the site plans,
as applicable;
      (2)   A copy of any deed restrictions or covenants that will be
enforceable against persons using any portion of the project;
      (3)   A copy of any preliminary agreements which may be required before
final plan approval is granted; and
      (4)   A copy of any proposed master deed or other master property use
document to which a user or owner of a lot or building site in the project is
subject and the supportive information whether intended to be recorded with the
Register of Deeds or not.
   (C)   The Clerk shall forward copies of the plan to the Township Planner,
Township Attorney, the Township Engineer and others as deemed appropriate, for
their review and recommendation.
   (D)   The Township Board shall review the site plans along with other
submitted materials and the recommendation of the Township Engineer, Attorney
and Planner. If the Board determines that all requirements of this chapter have
been met, it shall grant Step II approval and shall notify the applicant in
writing of this approval. Project plan approval shall also be noted on the copy
of the project plan to be returned to the applicant.
   (E)   (1)   Step II approval shall be valid for a period of two years from
the date of approval and guarantees the following rights:
         (a)   The general terms and conditions under which Step II approval
was granted will not be changed and the applicant may proceed with the
installation of required improvements; and
         (b)   The applicant may submit all or parts of the Step II approved
project plan as a final plan in accordance with the Condominium Act, as
amended, and this chapter.
      (2)   The two-year period may be extended for a period not longer than
one year if applied for by the applicant and granted by the township in
writing. Written notice of the extension shall be sent by the Township Clerk to
the other approving authorities.
   (F)   If the project plan substantially meets the requirements of this
chapter, the Township Board may grant tentative approval of Step II, such
approval being conditioned upon the submission of such changes, revisions or
additional materials as is determined to be necessary to complete Step II. Upon
the submission of such changes, revisions or additional material to the Board/
Building Inspector, the project plan shall be granted unconditional Step II
approval and the applicant shall be so notified. Project plan approval shall
also be noted on the copy of the project plan to be returned to the applicant.
The initial two-year period set forth hereinabove, begins on the date the
Township Board grants tentative approval to Step II.
   (G)   If the project plan does not meet the requirements of this chapter,
the Township Board shall deny Step II approval and so notify the applicant
along with the reasons for denial.
   (H)   Installation of all plan improvements authorized by Step II approval
shall be in accord with the requirements of the following appropriate agency or
utility having jurisdiction:
      (1)   County Road Commission: public streets, sidewalks, storm sewers;
      (2)   County Health Department: wells and septic system;
      (3)   County Drain Commission: drains and drainage from the site;
      (4)   Village of Sparta and/or Algoma Township, as the case may be:
public sanitary sewer and water;
      (5)   Consumers Power Company: electrical and street lights;
      (6)   Michigan Bell Telephone Company: telephone; and
      (7)   Michigan Consolidated Gas Company: gas.
(Prior Code, § 101.035) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.026 FINAL PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Within two years from the date of Step II approval of the project
plan, the applicant shall prepare and submit the necessary copies of the final
project plan to the Township Clerk along with a completed application form and
any fee established by the Township Board at least two weeks prior to the next
regularly scheduled Board meeting. The applicant shall also submit the
following:
      (1)   One copy of as-built plans of all required improvements which shall
be retained by the township;
      (2)   A copy of all final agreements, restrictions, deeds or other
documents and any master deed, which restricts or controls the use of the
property in the development; and
      (3)   Letters of approval from all applicable agencies or utilities
listed in §
152.025(H) of this chapter, stating that improvements have been properly
installed and inspected, and inspection fees paid, or that performance bonds or
other similar surety have been submitted for uncompleted improvements.
   (B)   If all submissions are found acceptable, the Clerk shall submit the
same to the Township Board at its next regular meeting for approval.
   (C)   If the Board shall approve the final plan based upon the plans and
other material submitted and the recommendation of the Township Engineer, it
shall notify the applicant in writing.
   (D)   If the Board shall reject the final plan, the Clerk shall notify the
applicant in writing stating the reasons for denial.
   (E)   (1)   All provisions of the final plan which are approved by the
Township Board must be incorporated, as approved:
         (a)   In the master deed for a condominium project; or
         (b)   In the site and development plans and deed restrictions for all
other developments, as the case may be.
      (2)   A copy of any master deed as filed with the County Register of
Deeds for recording must be provided to the Township Clerk within ten days
after such filing with the county. Any other document providing rights and
restrictions of users of the project, must also be provided to the Township
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 101.036) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.027 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   Approval of a final plan shall serve as conditional authorization to proceed
with the project. Approval shall not serve as the authorization of land uses on
individual lots. Uses on individual lots shall be subject to authorization
under the provisions of Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances and any general or
special regulations applicable to the use.
(Prior Code, § 101.037) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.028 REQUIRED CONTENT.
   (A)   Preliminary project plan. A preliminary project plan shall be prepared
in accordance with the requirements noted below. Such a drawing shall be drawn
at a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch:
      (1)   The name of the project; the name, address and phone number of the
proprietor; the name, address and seal of the surveyor, and a description of
the property to be subdivided;
      (2)   A key map showing the location and position of the property and its
relationship to surrounding streets and the surrounding area, including
existing zoning of abutting areas;
      (3)   North arrow, scale, contour interval and legend when appropriate;
      (4)   Contour elevations adjusted to USGS datum at not more than five-
foot intervals;
      (5)   Where appropriate, established floodplain contours and elevations
adjusted to USGS datum;
      (6)   The location of all existing streets, lots, plats, public
utilities, drains, streams or bodies of water on/or abutting the property;
      (7)   The outlines, intended layout and intended use of the entire
property owned or represented by the proprietor. The following shall be
included:
         (a)   Street and stub street right-of-way location, width and curve
radii;
         (b)   Proposed street names; and
         (c)   Lot lines, lot line dimensions to the nearest foot, lot and
block numbers and lot areas to the nearest 100 square feet.
      (8)   The location and dimensions of all existing or proposed easements
or reserve strips, including electrical, telephone and cable television
easements;
      (9)   The location of any and all general and limited common elements;
      (10)   The use and occupancy restrictions and maintenance provisions for
all general common elements as will be contained in a master deed, or other
document which imposes rights, obligations and/or restrictions on the owners or
users of the lots;
      (11)   The locations and tentative sizes of proposed sanitary sewers,
storm sewers and catch basins, water mains, culverts, bridges, ponding area,
ponds, lagoons; and
      (12)   Statements regarding:
         (a)   Provisions for water and sanitary sewer or septic systems;
         (b)   Zoning setback and lot size requirements;
         (c)   Type of street;
         (d)   Intent to install gas, sidewalks, street lights and shade trees;
and
         (e)   Use of waterways, rivers, streams, creeks, lakes or ponds.
(Prior Code, § 101.041)
   (B)   Final plan.
      (1)   The final project plan shall contain the same information as
required for the preliminary project plan, plus any additional information
required by the Planning Commission in its review. The final project plan shall
also conform to the requirements of any other reviewing agencies listed in §
152.025 of this chapter.
      (2)   The final project plan shall also be accompanied by or show the
following information:
         (a)   One set of approved as-built or final construction plans for all
required improvements to be kept on file by the township;
         (b)   One copy of the site condominium master deed and by-laws and any
other deed restrictions or restrictive covenants applying to the property;
         (c)   Deeds to any properties to be dedicated to the township;
         (d)   Performance or installation agreements for any improvements not
controlled or regulated by other agencies, such as sidewalks, street lights or
shade trees; and
         (e)   One copy of any financing arrangements between the township and
the proprietor for the installation of required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 101.042) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.040 CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING.
   A project, subject to this chapter, shall also be subject to the
requirements of
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances for that zoning district in which it is
located.
(Prior Code, § 101.051) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.041 STREETS.
   A project may be served by either a public or private road system. A public
road shall be constructed according to the standards of the county’s Road
Commission. A private road shall be built in accordance with the standards for
private roads as set forth in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 101.052) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.042 WATER AND SANITARY SEWER.
   Provisions for sanitary sewer or private septic systems and provisions for
water, either from a public system, private wells or community well, shall be
in compliance with applicable county, state and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 101.053) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.043 OTHER REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage. Catch basins and storm sewers of a size specified by the
county’s Road Commission and outletting from the subdivision in a method, and
to a drainage system, approved by the county’s Drain Commissioner. The drainage
system may also be approved by the Township Engineer.
   (B)   Electric and telephone conduits. Underground electrical and telephone
conduits together with connection terminals available at each lot.
   (C)   Street lights. Street lights may be required by the township’s
Planning Commission in accordance with the rules of Consumers Power Company.
   (D)   Gas service. Where available, gas distribution lines beneath the
street prior to the paving and curbing of any street, at locations adequate to
serve each lot by connections thereto without the further installation of gas
lines beneath such streets.
   (E)   Sidewalks. The Planning Commission may recommend, and the Township
Board may approve, sidewalks in accordance with the standards of the county’s
Road Commission. In considering the need for sidewalks, the following criteria
shall be considered:
      (1)   The amount of current and future pedestrian traffic passing by the
site;
      (2)   Whether a sidewalk would enhance the safety of pedestrians
currently walking by the site, as well as the safety of future pedestrians;
      (3)   The existing and future volume of traffic on the street abutting
the site;
      (4)   The existence or probability of sidewalks being constructed on
adjacent properties in order to create or complete a usable sidewalk system;
      (5)   The location of the proposed use; and
      (6)   The location of pedestrian attractors such as schools, churches,
public buildings and shopping opportunities.
   (F)   Monuments. Monuments shall be located in the ground at all angles
along the boundaries of the project. These monuments shall be made of solid
iron or steel bars at least one-half inch in diameter and 36 inches long and
completely encased in concrete at least four inches in diameter. All corners of
lots within a project shall be staked in the field by iron or steel bars or
iron pipes at least 18 inches long and one-half inch in diameter or other
markers as approved by the township’s Building Inspector.
   (G)   Street signs. Street signs shall be placed at all intersections within
or abutting the subdivision. The name, type and location shall be specified or
approved by the county’s Road Commission.
(Prior Code, § 101.054) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.044 COST DISTRIBUTION OF OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where the township requires that a given improvement be increased in
size, length or depth to meet the needs of other areas, arrangements shall be
made with the township or its agent prior to installation, or prior to approval
of, a final plat for the additional cost thereof.
   (B)   Township funds for permanent investment in these improvements are
limited, and nothing contained herein shall serve to obligate the township for
these costs. Extension of utilities or improvements smaller than an eight-inch
sanitary sewer line and a six-inch public water line is prohibited unless it is
determined by the Township Board that such size will not be reasonably needed
to serve any proposed service area.
(Prior Code, § 101.055) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PROJECTS
§ 152.055 MASTER PLAN.
   All projects subject to this chapter shall conform to the provisions and
conditions of the master plan and zoning map for future development of the
township, except as may be modified by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.061) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.056 STREETS.
   (A)   All streets shall conform in direction and alignment with the master
plan and shall connect with existing streets without jogs or sharp angles.
   (B)   The following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   Stub or outlet streets. Stub streets or outlets to adjacent
undeveloped property shall be fully improved, including drainage and utilities
as required for all other streets in the project.
      (2)   Dead-end streets.
         (a)   Dead-end public streets shall not exceed 800 feet in length
unless a paved secondary access street is provided to the public street system.
The Planning Commission however may approve a longer dead-end street after
consideration of the following criteria:
            1.   Number and size of building and/or dwelling units which make
up the project;
            2.   Type of interior roadway serving the project;
            3.   Interior circulation system;
            4.   Typography and other natural features of the site;
            5.   Amount of frontage on a public street;
            6.   Adjacent land uses;
            7.   Feasibility of achieving a secondary means of access;
            8.   Comments of the township’s Fire Chief;
            9.   Availability of public utilities; and
            10.   Approval of the county’s Road Commission.
         (b)   In no case, however, shall a dead-end street be more than 2,000
feet long without another means of access.
         (c)   Private roads shall comply with the requirements of §§
154.330 through
154.338 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips along major streets may be required
by the Planning Commission to be dedicated to the township or county to
prohibit access upon the major street from a specified lot or lots.
      (4)   Off-sets. Off-setting streets at an intersection are prohibited
unless the centerlines thereof are off-set at least 125 feet. Such off-sets
shall be subject to township approval and the approval of the Road Commission.
   (C)   Streets shall be designed in such a way to promote reasonable access
to the plat and any further development that may occur.
(Prior Code, § 101.062) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994; Ord. 96-9, effective
10-17-1996)
§ 152.057 LOTS.
   (A)   Every lot shall face upon a dedicated street or private street.
   (B)   The following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   Lot depth. No lot shall be less than 125 feet in depth at any
point.
      (2)   Shape. No lot shall be of such a shape as to require a possible
variance from the provisions of Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Double frontage. No lot shall be bounded on opposite sides by
streets; except that, on a major arterial street the Planning Commission may
require that abutting lots face upon a local street and that a reserve strip be
provided to prohibit access upon such major arterial street.
      (4)   Suitability. Where there is a question as to the suitability of a
lot or lots for their intended use due to factors such as soil formations,
flood conditions, floodplains, high water table or similar circumstances, the
Planning Commission shall after adequate investigation withhold approval of
such lots. Such lots shall be combined with other lots in such a manner as to
prohibit future subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 101.063) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.058 BLOCK LENGTHS.
   Blocks shall generally be between 600 feet and 1,000 feet in length. Side
streets or outlets to adjoining property may be required at a lesser interval
if deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 101.064) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.059 PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   Where a project is traversed by a watercourse or open drain, there shall be
provided a public easement of such a width as determined by the county’s Drain
Commissioner. There shall be required 20-foot public easements along the lot
lines of a block for utility facilities, drainage, walkways, access to public
land or similar needs of the community. Easements may be required to be
dedicated to the township or county.
(Prior Code, § 101.065) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.060 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school, street or other use shown in the
master plan is located in whole or in part, in a project, the Planning
Commission shall bring the same to the attention of the proprietor and the
Township Board so that they may address the question of acquiring such areas by
dedication, reservation or payment.
(Prior Code, § 101.066) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.061 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   The Township Board may require formal agreements or the posting of an
irrevocable letter of credit, or certified check, or cash bond or such other
surety sufficient to guaranty the proper performance of required improvements
or materials to meet the provisions and the intent of this chapter. Where a
bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or certified check is provided, it shall be
of such form as approved by the Township Board.
(Prior Code, § 101.067) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.062 INSPECTION AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The Township Board may establish inspection fees, inspection requirements,
specification standards and administrative procedures as provided by law and
such shall be deemed to be requirements of this chapter. All plans and
installations of improvements called for shall be subject to the approval of
the township or its agent, or such other competent persons as designated by the
township. All inspection fees shall be paid by the proprietor before the final
plan is approved by the township unless adequate sureties or deposits to cover
these expenses are given to the township prior to final plan approval.
(Prior Code, § 101.068) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.063 CONDOMINIUM PUD.
   A project proposed as a planned unit development shall adhere to the
requirements of this chapter and of Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances, which
is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Prior Code, § 101.069) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.064 MOBILE HOME PROJECTS.
   A mobile home park proposed as a project subject to this chapter, shall
conform to all requirements of this chapter and Ch. 154 of this code of
ordinances, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Prior Code, § 101.070) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.075 VARIANCES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Grounds for a variance.
      (1)   If the applicant can clearly demonstrate that literal enforcement
of this chapter is impractical or will impose undue hardship in the use of the
land because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land, and were not
created by the applicant or its predecessors in title, the Township Board may
permit such variances as, in its sound discretion, it believes to be reasonable
and within the general purpose and policy of this chapter. A financial hardship
or gain shall not of itself be sufficient.
      (2)   In making the findings required below, the Board shall consider the
recommendations of the Planning Commission, the location and condition of the
proposed project, the nature of the proposed variance as compared with the
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed project and the probable effect of the proposed project and
variances on traffic conditions, public health and safety in the vicinity.
      (3)   No variance shall be granted unless the Board finds that all of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land;
         (b)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right of the applicant; and
         (c)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to state or
county regulations or township ordinances, detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to other property in the area in which said property is situated.
(Prior Code, § 101.081)
   (B)   Procedure for a variance.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit an application for a variance to the
Township Clerk on a form provided by the Clerk. The application fee shall be
the same as provided by the Township Board for zoning variances. The
application shall be submitted at least ten days before the regularly scheduled
meeting of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Clerk shall forward the application and all associated
materials to the Planning Commission and to the Township Engineer, Planner or
Attorney as necessary.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and notice
shall include, and shall be given in accordance with §
152.023 of this chapter.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to approve,
deny or modify the variance request to the Township Board stating its reasons
for the recommendations. The Commission shall rely on the criteria of division
(A) above in making its recommendation.
      (5)   The Township Board shall consider the recommendation of the
Planning Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the
Planning Commission’s recommendation and shall approve, deny or modify the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 101.082) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.076 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Township Supervisor, Township
Zoning Administrator or their designated agent(s). The rules, regulations and
standards imposed by this chapter shall be considered to be the minimum
requirements for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the township; and, in interpreting and applying them, primary
consideration shall be given to these factors.
(Prior Code, § 101.091) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.077 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Township Supervisor, Township Zoning
Administrator or their designated agent(s).
(Prior Code, § 101.093) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates any provision of
this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be set by the township from
time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as authorized
by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 101.093) (Ord. 93-7, effective 1-20-1994; Ord. 99-8, passed 11-
11-1999)
CHAPTER 153: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authority and title
   
153.02   Findings
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Applicability
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Responsibility to implement BMPs
   
153.07   Interpretation
   
153.08   Provisions supplemental
Prohibitions and Authorizations
   
153.20   Prohibited discharges
   
153.21   Prohibited illicit connections
   
153.22   Authorized discharges
   
153.23   Storage of hazardous or toxic materials in drainage way
Inspection, Monitoring, Reporting and Record Keeping
   
153.35   Inspection and sampling
   
153.36   Storm water monitoring facilities
   
153.37   Accidental discharges
   
153.38   Record keeping requirement
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.50   Failure to comply; completion
   
153.51   Emergency measures
   
153.52   Cost recovery for damage to system
   
153.53   Collection of costs; lien
   
153.54   Suspension of access to system
   
153.55   Appeals
   
153.56   Judicial relief
   
153.57   Cumulative remedies
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with: M.C.L.A. Chapter 41;
M.C.L.A. §§ 41.181 et seq.; the Drain Code of 1956, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 280.1 et seq.; the Land Division Act, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.1 et
seq.; the Revenue Bond Act, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et seq.; the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 324.101 et seq.; § 401(p) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also
known as the Clean Water Act), as amended, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342(p) and 40
C.F.R. parts 9, 122, 123 and 124; and other applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   The township shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
the ordinance. Any powers granted or duties imposed, upon the township may be
delegated in writing by the Supervisor of the township to persons or entities
acting in the beneficial interest of, or in the employ of the township.
(Prior Code, § 72.001.1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS.
   The township finds that:
   (A)   Illicit discharges contain pollutants that will significantly degrade
the waterbodies and water resources of the township, thus threatening the
health, safety and welfare of the citizenry;
   (B)   Illicit discharges enter the storm water drainage system through
either direct connections (such as, wastewater piping either mistakenly or
deliberately connected to the storm drains) or indirect connections (such as,
infiltration into the storm drain system or spills connected by drain inlets);
   (C)   Establishing the measures for controlling illicit discharges and
connections contained in this chapter and implementing the same will address
many of the deleterious effects of illicit discharges; and
   (D)   Any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare,
and is declared and deemed a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 72.001.2) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum storm water
management requirements and controls to accomplish, among others, the following
objectives:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm water drainage
system and waterbodies by storm water discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit discharges and connections to the storm water
drainage system and waterbodies;
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter; and
   (D)   To provide appropriate remedies for failure to comply with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.001.3) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all discharges entering the storm water drainage
system and waterbodies generated on any developed and undeveloped lands.
(Prior Code, § 72.001.4) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The Township Supervisor, the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer and/or any other persons or agencies designated to act as
the authorized enforcement agency by the Township Board.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Structural devices or non-structural
practices that are designed to prevent pollutants from entering storm water
flows, to direct the flow of storm water or to treat polluted storm water
flows. BMPs may include, but shall not be limited to, those described in the
state’s Department of Environmental Quality Guidebook of BMPs for Michigan
Watersheds. Equivalent practices and design criteria that accomplish the
purposes of this chapter (including, but not limited to, minimizing storm water
runoff and preventing the discharge of pollutants into storm water) shall be as
determined by the Township Engineer.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction (intentionally or unintentionally, and directly
or indirectly) of any liquid, substance, pollutant or other material into a
storm water drainage system or waterbody.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who directly or indirectly discharges storm water
from any premises. DISCHARGER also includes any employee, officer, director,
partner, contractor or other person who participates in, or is legally or
factually responsible for, any act or omission that is, or results in, a
violation of this chapter.
   DRAIN. Any and all conduits, facilities, measures, areas and structures that
serve to convey, catch, hold, filter, store and/or receive storm water or
ground water, either on a temporary or permanent basis.
   DRAINAGE. The collection, conveyance or discharge of ground water and/or
surface water.
   DRAINAGE WAY. A drain, waterbody or floodplain.
   EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   FLOODPLAIN. The area, usually low lands, adjoining the channel of a river,
stream or watercourse or lake, or other body of standing water, that has been
or may be covered by flood water.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any solid, liquid, semisolid or gaseous substance or
material that because of its quantity, quality, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to
an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible illness or
serious incapacitating, but reversible illness, or may pose a substantial
present or potential hazard to human health or the environment if improperly
treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method, means or conduit for conveying an illicit
discharge into a waterbody or a storm water drainage system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a waterbody or a storm water drainage
system that does not consist entirely of storm water, that is not authorized by
the terms of an NPDES permit or that is not an authorized discharge as defined
by this chapter.
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the EPA or a state under authority delegated pursuant to the Clean
Water Act that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
States.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm water drainage system
or a waterbody that is not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. Includes, but is not limited to, any dredged spoil, solid waste,
vehicle fluids, yard wastes, animal wastes, agricultural waste products,
sediment, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical wastes, biological wastes, radioactive materials, hazardous materials,
wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal, commercial and agricultural waste, or any other contaminant or other
substance defined as a pollutant under the Clean Water Act. POLLUTANT also
includes properties or characteristics of water, including, but not limited to,
pH, heat, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity and odor.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land,
or property, whether improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and
parking strips.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to premises or
any person having or exercising care, custody or control over any premises.
   STATE OF MICHIGAN WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. All applicable state rules,
regulations and laws pertaining to water quality, including the provisions of §
3106 of Part 31 of Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq.
   STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Storm sewers, conduits, curbs, gutters, catch
basins, drains, ditches, pumping devices, parking lots, roads or other human-
made channels that are designed or used, singly or together in combination with
one another, for collecting or conveying storm water.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document, that describes the BMPs
and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of
pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce
pollutant discharges to storm water, a storm water drainage system and/or a
waterbody to the maximum extent practicable.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF or STORM WATER. The runoff and drainage of precipitation
resulting from rainfall, snowmelt or other natural event or process.
   TOXIC MATERIAL. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants that is or can
potentially be harmful to the public health or the environment, including,
without limitation, those listed in 40 C.F.R. § 401.15 as toxic under the
provisions of the Clean Water Act, or listed in the Critical Materials Register
promulgated by the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, or as otherwise
provided by local, state or federal laws, rules or regulations.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a premises. The term includes any water that has in any
way been used and degraded or physically or chemically altered.
   WATERBODY. A river, lake, stream, creek or other watercourse or wetlands.
(Prior Code, § 72.001.5) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.06 RESPONSIBILITY TO IMPLEMENT BMPS.
   The owner or operator of a premises used for commercial or industrial
purposes shall provide, at the owner or operator’s own expense, reasonable
protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the storm water drainage system or waterbody through the use of structural
and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a premises that
is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge may be required to implement,
at the person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to
prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the storm water drainage system
or waterbody. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit
authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with industrial activity,
to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 72.005.1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.07 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except those words and phrases defined in §
153.05 of this chapter shall be construed according to the respective
definitions given in that section. Technical words and technical phrases not
defined in this chapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in law or
in technical usage, shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Prior Code, § 72.006.1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.08 PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL.
   This chapter shall be in addition to other ordinances of the township and
shall not be deemed to repeal or replace other ordinances, or parts thereof;
provided that, in the event of any inconsistency or conflict between this
chapter and any other provision of any other ordinance, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 72.006.4) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
PROHIBITIONS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
§ 153.20 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge, or cause to be discharged,
to a storm water drainage system or waterbody any substance or material,
including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards,
other than storm water or an authorized discharge. This prohibition includes
the commencement, conducting or continuance of any illicit discharge by any
person to a storm water drainage system or waterbody.
   (B)   Any person discharging storm water shall effectively prevent
pollutants from being discharged with the storm water, except in accordance
with BMPs.
   (C)   The authorized enforcement agency is authorized to require dischargers
to implement pollution prevention measures, using storm water pollution
prevention plans and BMPs, as determined necessary by the authorized
enforcement agency to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to a storm
water drainage system or waterbody.
   (D)   The discharge prohibitions of this section shall not apply to any non-
storm water discharge authorized under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the EPA; provided, the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations; and, provided that, written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm water drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 72.002.1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 PROHIBITED ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to construct, use, maintain (or to allow
the construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of) an illicit
connection.
   (B)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made prior to the effective date of this chapter, and regardless of
whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or
prevailing at the time of connection.
(Prior Code, § 72.002.2) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 AUTHORIZED DISCHARGES.
   The following non-storm water discharges are permissible, but only if they
do not result in a violation of state water quality standards; and, provided
that, they are undertaken in compliance with any applicable or required BMPs:
   (A)   Water supply line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation runoff;
   (C)   Diverted stream flows;
   (D)   Rising ground water;
   (E)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration to storm drains;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensate;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains and basement sump pumps;
   (N)   Lawn watering runoff;
   (O)   Waters from non-commercial car washing;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Residential swimming pool water and other dechlorinated swimming pool
water; provided that, any filter backwash water that is present is treated;
   (R)   Residual street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activities; and
   (T)   Discharges specifically authorized in writing by the authorized
enforcement agency as being necessary to protect public health, welfare and
safety or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 72.002.3) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.23 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS IN DRAINAGE WAY.
   Except as permitted by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to store or
stockpile, within a drainage way, any hazardous or toxic materials, unless
adequate protection and/or containment has been provided so as to prevent any
such materials from entering a storm water drainage system or waterbody.
(Prior Code, § 72.002.4) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
INSPECTION, MONITORING, REPORTING AND RECORD KEEPING
§ 153.35 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The authorized enforcement agency may inspect and/or obtain samples from any
discharger’s premises as necessary to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow properly
identified representatives of the authorized enforcement agency to enter the
premises of the discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such
inspection or investigation, including, but not limited to, smoke/dye testing,
televising pipes, sampling, and excavation. The authorized enforcement agency
shall provide the discharger reasonable advance notice of the need for such
access, if possible and consistent with protection of public health and safety
and the environment. The properly identified representatives may place on the
discharger’s premises the equipment or devices used for such sampling or
inspection. Unreasonable delays in allowing access to a premises is a violation
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.003.1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.36 STORM WATER MONITORING FACILITIES.
   If directed in writing to do so by the authorized enforcement agency, a
discharger of storm water runoff from any premises used for commercial or
industrial purposes shall provide and operate equipment or devices for the
monitoring of storm water runoff to provide for inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of each discharge to a waterbody or a storm water drainage system,
as specified by the authorized enforcement agency. The authorized enforcement
agency may require a discharger to provide and operate such equipment and
devices if it is necessary or appropriate for the inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of discharges in order to determine whether adverse effects from,
or as a result of, such discharges may occur. All such equipment and devices
for the inspection, sampling and flow measurement of discharges shall be
installed and maintained at the discharger’s expense in accordance with
applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 72.003.2) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.37 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a storm water drainage
system or a waterbody any substance other than storm water or an authorized
discharge shall immediately notify the authorized enforcement agency of the
discharge. If the notification is given orally, a written report concerning the
discharge shall be filed with the authorized enforcement agency within five
days.
   (B)   The written report shall specify all of the following:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The exact date, time and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the discharge, all measures taken or
proposed to be taken to mitigate any known or potential adverse impacts of the
discharge, and all measures proposed to be taken to reduce and prevent any
recurrences; and
      (4)   The names and telephone numbers of the individual making the
report, and (if different) the individual who may be contacted for additional
information regarding the discharge.
(Prior Code, § 72.003.3) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.38 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT.
   Any person that violates any requirement of this chapter or that is subject
to monitoring under this chapter shall retain and preserve for no less than
three years any and all books, drawings, plans, prints, documents, memoranda,
reports, correspondence and records, including records on magnetic or
electronic media, and any and all summaries of such records relating to
monitoring, sampling and chemical analysis of any discharge or storm water
runoff from any premises connected with the violation or subject to monitoring.
(Prior Code, § 72.003.4) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.50 FAILURE TO COMPLY; COMPLETION.
   (A)   The authorized enforcement agency is authorized, after giving
reasonable notice and opportunity for compliance, to correct any violation of
this chapter or damage or impairment to the storm water drainage system caused
by a discharge and to bill the person causing the violation or discharge for
the costs of the work to be reimbursed.
   (B)   The costs reimbursable under this section shall be in addition to
fees, amounts or other costs and expenses required to be paid to the authorized
enforcement agency under other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.2) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.51 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   If emergency measures are necessary to respond to a nuisance; to
protect public safety, health, and welfare; and/or to prevent loss of life,
injury or damage to property, the authorized enforcement agency is authorized
to carry out or arrange for all such emergency measures.
   (B)   Property owners shall be responsible for the cost of such measures
made necessary as a result of a violation of this chapter, and shall promptly
reimburse the township for all of such costs.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.3) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.52 COST RECOVERY FOR DAMAGE TO SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person who discharges to a storm water drainage system or a
waterbody, including, but not limited to, any person who causes or creates a
discharge that violates any provision of this chapter, produces a deposit or
obstruction or otherwise damages or impairs a storm water drainage system, or
causes or contributes to a violation of any federal, state or local law
governing the township, shall be liable to and shall fully reimburse the
township for all expenses, costs, losses or damages (direct or indirect)
payable or incurred by the township as a result of any such discharge, deposit,
obstruction, damage, impairment, violation, exceedence or non-compliance.
   (B)   The costs that must be reimbursed to the township shall include, but
shall not be limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   All costs incurred by the township in responding to the violation
or discharge, including, expenses for any cleaning, repair or replacement work,
and the costs of sampling, monitoring and treatment, as a result of the
discharge, violation, exceedence or non-compliance;
      (2)   All costs to the township of monitoring, surveillance and
enforcement in connection with investigating, verifying and prosecuting any
discharge, violation, exceedence or non-compliance;
      (3)   The full amount of any fines, assessments, penalties and claims,
including natural resource damages, levied against the township, or any
township representative, by any governmental agency or third party as a result
of a violation of applicable laws or regulations that is caused by or
contributed to by any discharge, violation, exceedence or non-compliance; and
      (4)   The full value of any township staff time (including any required
overtime), consultant and engineering fees, and actual attorney fees and
defense costs (including the township legal counsel and any special legal
counsel), associated with responding to, investigating, verifying and
prosecuting any discharge, violation, exceedence or non-compliance, or
otherwise enforcing the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.4) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.53 COLLECTION OF COSTS; LIEN.
   (A)   Costs incurred by the township pursuant to §§
153.50,
153.51,
153.52 and
153.54 of this chapter shall constitute a lien on the premises, which shall be
enforceable in accordance with Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101
through 141.138, as amended from time to time, or as otherwise authorized by
law. Any such charges that are delinquent for six months or more may be
certified annually to the Township Treasurer, who shall enter the lien on the
next tax roll against the premises, and the costs shall be collected, and the
lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for in the collection of
taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement of a lien for taxes. In
addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the township shall have all
remedies authorized by Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through
141.138, as amended, and by other applicable laws.
   (B)   The failure by any person to pay any amounts required to be reimbursed
to the township as provided by this chapter shall constitute an additional
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.5) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.54 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
authorized enforcement agency may, without prior notice, suspend access to the
storm water drainage system to any person or premises when such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge that presents or may
present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or
welfare of persons, or to the storm water drainage system or a waterbody. If
the person fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the storm water drainage system or the
environment, or to minimize danger to persons, and bill the person for the
costs to the township in taking such steps.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm water drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their access to the system terminated, if the authorized enforcement
agency determines that such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its access. It shall be unlawful for any person to
reinstate access of the storm water drainage system to a premises terminated
pursuant to this section without the prior written approval of the authorized
enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.6) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.55 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may
appeal in writing to Township Board, not later than 30 days after the action or
decision being appealed. Such appeal shall identify the matter being appealed,
and the basis for the appeal. The Township Board shall consider the appeal and
make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being
appealed. In considering any such appeal, the Township Board may consider the
recommendations of the authorized enforcement agency and the comments of other
persons having knowledge or expertise regarding the matter.
   (B)   In considering any such appeal, the Township Board may grant a
temporary variance from the terms of this chapter so as to provide relief, in
whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon finding that
the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the ordinance provisions being appealed will
present or cause unnecessary hardship for the person appealing; provided,
however, that, unnecessary hardship shall not include the need for a property
owner to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with the
ordinance; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not prevent
accomplishment of the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less
effective management of storm water runoff.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.7) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.56 JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   With the approval of the Township Board, the authorized enforcement agency
may institute legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to seek
all appropriate relief for violations of this chapter or of any permit, order,
notice or agreement issued or entered into under this chapter. The action may
seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages, penalties, costs and
any other relief, at law or equity, that a court may order. The authorized
enforcement agency may also seek collection of fines, penalties and any other
amounts due to the township that a person has not paid.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.8) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.57 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The imposition of a single penalty, fine, order, damage or surcharge upon
any person for a violation of this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice or
agreement issued, or entered into under this chapter, shall not preclude the
imposition by the township, the authorized enforcement agency, or a court of
competent jurisdiction of a combination of any or all of those sanctions and
remedies or additional sanctions and remedies with respect to the same
violation, consistent with applicable limitations on penalty amounts under
state or federal laws or regulations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a
criminal action against a person shall not be dependent upon and need not be
held in abeyance during any civil, judicial or administrative proceeding,
conference or hearing regarding the person.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.9) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as provided by division
(F) below, and notwithstanding any other provision of the township’s laws,
ordinances and regulations to the contrary, a person who violates any provision
of this chapter (including, without limitation, any notice, order, permit,
decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the authorized
enforcement agency under this chapter) is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine, the amount of which shall be
set by the township from time to time, per day for each infraction and not more
than an amount set by the township per day for each infraction, plus costs and
other sanctions.
   (B)   Repeat offenses; increased fines.
      (1)   Increased fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. As used in this
section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision of this chapter:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any 12-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (2)   The increased fine for a repeat offense under this chapter shall be
as follows.
         (a)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than an amount determined by the township from time to time plus
costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than an amount determined by the
township from time to time plus costs.
   (C)   Amount of fines. Subject to the minimum fine amounts specified in
division (B)(1) above, the following factors shall be considered by a court in
determining the amount of a municipal civil infraction fine following the
issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation for a violation of this
chapter: the type, nature, severity, frequency, duration, preventability,
potential and actual effect and economic benefit to the violator (such as
delayed or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of a violation; the
violator’s recalcitrance or efforts to comply; the economic impacts of the fine
on the violator; and such other matters as justice may require. A violator
shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence and degree of any
mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount of a fine.
However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is determined
that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and terminate all
violations.
   (D)   Authorized local official. Notwithstanding any other provision of the
township’s laws, ordinances and regulations to the contrary, the following
persons are designated as the authorized local officials to issue municipal
civil infraction citations (directing alleged violators to appear in District
Court) and/or notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the township’s
Municipal Violations Bureau, as applicable) for violations of this chapter (in
addition to any other persons so designated by the authorized enforcement
agency): the Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer and any police officer
(including County Sheriff’s Deputies).
   (E)   Other requirements and procedures. Except as otherwise provided by
this section, the requirements and procedures for commencing municipal civil
infraction actions; issuance and service of municipal civil infraction
citations; determination and collection of court-ordered fines, costs and
expenses; appearances and payment of fines and costs; failure to answer, appear
or pay fines; disposition of fines, costs and expenses paid; and other matters
regarding municipal civil infractions shall be as set forth in Public Act 236
of 1961, being M.C.L.A. Chapter 600, as amended.
   (F)   Criminal violations. Any person who does as follows shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine in an amount as
determined by the township from time to time per violation, per day, or
imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both in the discretion of the court:
      (1)   At the time of a violation knew or should have known that a
pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of this
chapter, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued or made by the authorized enforcement agency under this
chapter;
      (2)   Intentionally makes a false statement, representation or
certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a permit, or in a
notice, report or record required by this chapter, or in any other
correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the authorized
enforcement agency regarding matters regulated by this chapter;
      (3)   Intentionally falsifies, tampers with or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
chapter; or
      (4)   Commits any other act that is punishable under state law by
imprisonment for more than 90 days.
   (G)   Aiding and abetting. Any person who aids or abets another person in a
violation of this chapter shall be subject to the sanctions provided in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 72.004.1) (Ord. 05-05, passed 9-8-2005)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Enactment and authority
   
154.002   Short title
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Scope
   
154.005   Conflicts with other laws; inconsistencies
   
154.006   Definitions - words and terms defined
   
154.007   Interpretation of chapter
   
154.008   Severability
Zoning Districts and Conditions
   
154.020   Establishment of districts
   
154.021   Zoning map
   
154.022   Purposes and objectives of districts
Rogue River (RR) Zoning District
   
154.035   Establishment
   
154.036   Uses permitted by right
   
154.037   Height regulations
   
154.038   Area regulations
   
154.039   Accessory uses
   
154.040   Specifically prohibited actions and uses
Airport Overlay (AO) Zone
   
154.055   Intent and purpose
   
154.056   Boundaries
   
154.057   Hazardous height limitation standards for airport approaches
   
154.058   Unlawful land uses
Open Space Planned Unit Development (OS-PUD) District
   
154.070   Intent
   
154.071   Authorization and procedures
   
154.072   Qualifying conditions
   
154.073   Permitted uses
   
154.074   Development requirements
   
154.075   Open space requirements
   
154.076   Areas not counted as dedicated open space
   
154.077   Standards for open space
   
154.078   Methods to preserve open space
   
154.079   Density and number of dwelling units allowed
   
154.080   Density and setbacks table
   
154.081   Formula to determine number of dwellings
   
154.082   Procedures for review and preparation of preliminary site plan
Planned Unit Developments (PUDs)
   
154.095   Purpose and objectives
   
154.096   Authorization and procedures
   
154.097   Permitted uses
   
154.098   Qualifying conditions
   
154.099   Development regulations
   
154.100   Development requirements for residential uses
   
154.101   Minimum dedicated open space requirements
   
154.102   Standards for approval
   
154.103   PUD procedures
   
154.104   Additional requirements
   
154.105   Amendments to approved PUD
   
154.106   Performance guarantee
   
154.107   Time limitations on development
   
154.108   Existing PUDs
Non-Conformities
   
154.140   Intent
   
154.141   General requirements
   
154.142   Non-conforming uses
   
154.143   Non-conforming buildings
   
154.144   Non-conforming lots
   
154.145   Non-conforming signs
   
154.146   Burden of proof
Site Plan Review
   
154.160   Review and approval
   
154.161   Applicability
   
154.162   Standards for review and approval
   
154.163   Application
   
154.164   Conditional approval; Planning Commission
   
154.165   Records and compliance
   
154.166   Compliance with performance standards
   
154.167   Conformity to approved site plan
   
154.168   Security
   
154.169   Preliminary site plan review; Planning Commission
   
154.170   Final site plan review
   
154.171   Minor modifications of approved site plans
Special Uses
   
154.185   Special use permits
   
154.186   Standards for consideration
   
154.187   Conditions
   
154.188   Compliance with performance standards; site plan review
   
154.189   Time limitation
   
154.190   Existing violations
   
154.191   Basis for decision in writing
   
154.192   Special use approval required
   
154.193   Non-agricultural development option for managing development and
agricultural preservation
   
154.194   Application procedures for special use permits by Planning Commission
Supplementary Use Regulations
   
154.205   General
   
154.206   Managed growth, development and agricultural preservation;
limitations on non- agricultural uses in the Ag-1 Zoning District
   
154.207   Maximum density requirements and depth-to-width ratio for non-
agricultural dwellings in the Ag-1 Zoning District
   
154.208   Home occupations
   
154.209   Medical marijuana
   
154.210   Research and development facilities
   
154.211   Sanitary landfills
   
154.212   Animal kennels
   
154.213   Animal hospitals
   
154.214   Disposal sites for hazardous and liquid materials
   
154.215   Airfields or landing strips
   
154.216   Farm labor housing
   
154.217   Hotels, motels and motor courts
   
154.218   Bowling alleys, indoor commercial recreation and similar uses
   
154.219   Open-air businesses
   
154.220   Gasoline service stations (filling stations)
   
154.221   Car wash establishments
   
154.222   Convalescent or nursing homes for seven or more persons
   
154.223   Golf courses and country clubs
   
154.224   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks
   
154.225   Junkyards
   
154.226   Removal and storage of liquids
   
154.227   Office developments (two or more structures)
   
154.228   Shopping center and department store developments
   
154.229   Planned industrial parks
   
154.230   Industrial performance standards (restrictions on the creation of
dangerous and objectionable elements)
   
154.231   Special events in Ag-1 and Ag-2 Zoning Districts
   
154.232   Mandatory planned unit developments
   
154.233   Wineries, micro-breweries, and distilleries
   
154.234   Retail garden nurseries and greenhouses in the Ag-1 Zoning District
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
154.245   Effect of zoning
   
154.246   Application of regulations
   
154.247   Schedule of regulations; tables
   
154.248   Restoring unsafe buildings
   
154.249   Minimum floor area for dwelling units
   
154.250   Structures to have access
   
154.251   Erection of more than one principal structure prohibited
   
154.252   Accessory buildings and uses
   
154.253   Exceptions to height regulations
   
154.254   Exceptions to yard setback regulations
   
154.255   Underground homes
   
154.256   Mobile homes
   
154.257   Antennas
   
154.258   Lots
   
154.259   Utilities
   
154.260   Parking
   
154.261   Outdoor furnaces
   
154.262   Animals, livestock and fowl
   
154.263   Churches; day care and child centers
   
154.264   Transition zoning
   
154.265   Lighting, screening and fences
   
154.266   Amateur radio towers
   
154.267   Medical marijuana dispensaries and other facilities
   
154.268   Miscellaneous uses
   
154.269   Mining; natural resources
   
154.270   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
154.271   [Reserved]
   
154.272   Communication towers
   
154.273   Schedule of bulk regulations
   
154.274   Certain prohibited land uses
   
154.275   Certain residential developments as planned unit developments
Wireless Internet Service Providers (WISP)
   
154.285   Purpose
   
154.286   Definition
   
154.287   Applicability
   
154.288   Application requirements; special use permits
   
154.289   WISP mounted on a tower; general requirements
   
154.290   WISP mounted on a building; general requirements
Wind Energy Systems (WES)
   
154.305   Purpose
   
154.306   Definitions
   
154.307   WES allowed as permitted use
   
154.308   WES that require special use approval
   
154.309   Operating standards for all wind energy systems
   
154.310   Decommissioning plan
   
154.311   Removal and site restoration
   
154.312   Removal cost guarantee
   
154.313   Abandoned, inoperable and unsafe WES and adverse impacts
   
154.314   Complaint resolution plan
   
154.315   Inspection
   
154.316   Certification of insurance
   
154.317   Noise monitoring and complaint investigation and resolution
   
154.318   Administrative costs; initial application and on-going
Solar Energy Systems (SES)
   
154.320   Purpose
   
154.321   Definitions
   
154.322   General requirements for solar energy systems
   
154.323   Requirements for rooftop and wall mounted SES
   
154.324   Level 1 Onsite Ground Mounted SES
   
154.325   Level 2 Onsite Ground Mounted SES
   
154.326   Solar farms
Private Roads
   
154.330   Definitions
   
154.331   General requirements; application to existing private roads
   
154.332   Minimum standards
   
154.333   Road maintenance
   
154.334   Procedure for review
   
154.335   Review committee
   
154.336   Final compliance requirements
   
154.337   Permit issuance
   
154.338   Permits for buildings
Adult-Oriented Businesses
   
154.350   Local and approval
   
154.351   Special land use process
   
154.352   Definitions
   
154.353   Compliance
Mobile Home Parks
   
154.365   Purpose
   
154.366   Eligibility; requirements
Signs
   
154.380   Signs and billboards
   
154.381   Purposes and intent
Zoning Agreements; Conditional Rezonings
   
154.395   General
   
154.396   Definitions
   
154.397   Eligibility
   
154.398   Zoning agreements
   
154.399   Rezoning offer
   
154.400   Application, review and approval
   
154.401   Approval
   
154.402   Continuation
   
154.403   Amendment
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.415   Zoning Administrator; duties
   
154.416   [Reserved]
   
154.417   Application procedures for zoning permit
   
154.418   [Reserved]
   
154.419   Application procedures for certificates of occupancy
   
154.420   General procedural steps
   
154.421   Performance bonding for compliance (performance guarantee)
   
154.422   Schedule of fees
   
154.423   Stop work order
   
154.424   Notice and hearings
   
154.425   Time limits
   
154.426   Proof of ownership
   
154.427   Surveys
   
154.428   Revocation or termination of zoning approvals
   
154.429   Amendments
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.440   Authorization
   
154.441   Membership
   
154.442   Powers and duties
   
154.443   Organization and conduct of business
   
154.444   Conditions of ZBA approval
   
154.445   Time limit on decision of ZBA
   
154.446   Final action on appeals
   
154.447   Effect of appeals proceedings (stay of proceedings)
   
154.448   Application procedure for appeals/variances; decision process
   
154.449   Variances; standards
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Table of Use Regulations
   
Appendix B: Table of General Bulk Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 ENACTMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   The Township Board, under the authority of the state’s Zoning Enabling Act,
also known as Public Act 110 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as
amended (the “Zoning Act”), hereby ordains, enacts and publishes this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 1.1)
§ 154.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Sparta Township Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 1.2)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby established in accordance with the needs of the
township. The text, map and schedules contained herein shall constitute this
chapter.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To protect and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the township and its residents and landowners;
      (2)   To guide and protect the future of the township in an orderly
manner and in accordance with the growth and development goals of the
township’s land use plan. The following is a narrative summary of both the plan
text and map:
         (a)   To promote the agricultural economic base of the township;
         (b)   To provide for growth in areas conducive for development by
encouraging growth and development to occur in close proximity to the Village
of Sparta and near the southeastern part of the township;
         (c)   To protect and preserve the scenic and environmental quality of
the Rogue River by maintaining “natural river” restrictions pursuant to state
law, and more specifically defined in the Natural River Report: Rogue River,
revised August of 1973;
         (d)   To promote light industrial development in close proximity to
the Village of Sparta;
         (e)   To discourage and restrain major commercial uses such as highway
and strip commercial from locating in areas far removed from the Village of
Sparta; and
         (f)   To discourage sprawl development and conflicts between
incompatible land uses.
      (3)   To protect and preserve the value of land throughout the township
and the value of buildings appropriate to the various districts established by
this chapter;
      (4)   To assure that the residential housing environment of the township
is safe, healthful and free of blighting appearances;
      (5)   To provide for a range of housing opportunities in a planned,
orderly pattern and manner within the township and with residential densities
of varying scales east of M-37;
      (6)   To protect the natural environment from the pollution of air,
streams and ponds and to encourage the wise development and sound management of
all natural resources throughout the township in order to preserve the
stability, beauty and rural character of the community;
      (7)   To preserve farmland for agricultural uses, especially prime
agricultural lands in accordance with the township’s land use plan in
agricultural zoning districts, it is the intent of the township to consider and
acknowledge the use of land for agricultural purposes under the same values,
priorities and terms in this chapter as other uses of land are considered in
other zoning districts. By this statement, it is intended that non-agricultural
uses are to be discouraged in prime agricultural or unique agricultural zoning
districts; and further, to encourage development in other areas that are not
suitable for agriculture by making these areas more attractive through zoning;
and
      (8)   To effectuate those purposes and goals as specified in the
township’s land use plan.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 1.3)
§ 154.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   Zoning affects all structures, buildings, activities and land uses
within the township.
   (B)   Township buildings, structures and uses are subject to this chapter.
   (C)   Uses, activities, buildings or structures not specifically authorized
in this chapter are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 1.4)
§ 154.005 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS; INCONSISTENCIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are the minimum requirements necessary
for the protection of the health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and
general welfare of the people at large.
   (B)   If there are found to be differences between the meaning or
implication of any drawing, table, figure, title or section heading in this
chapter, the text of this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   This chapter shall not repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or
interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances or regulations,
except those repealed herein by specific reference, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement,
or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the township is a
party.
   (D)   (1)   Internal. Unless otherwise specifically stated within this
chapter, if two or more provisions are in conflict or are inconsistent with one
another, then the most restrictive provision shall apply.
      (2)   Local regulations. Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
limitations or requirements upon the use of buildings, structures, activities
or land; the height of buildings or structures; lot coverage; lot areas; yards
or other open spaces; or any other use or utilization of land than are imposed
or required by other existing laws, ordinances, regulations, private
restrictions or restrictive covenants, the provisions of this chapter shall
control.
      (3)   Federal and state regulations. Whenever a provision of this chapter
imposes a greater restriction or a higher standard than is required by any
state or federal code or regulation, county or township ordinance or
regulation, the provision of this chapter shall apply. Whenever a provision of
any state or federal code or regulation, county or township ordinance or
regulation imposes a greater restriction or a higher standard than is required
by this chapter, the provision of the state or federal code or regulation, or
other county or township ordinance or regulation shall apply.
      (4)   Private restrictions. Whenever a private covenant, contract,
commitment, agreement or other similar private land use regulation imposes a
greater restriction or a higher standard than is required by a provision of
this chapter, the township is not obligated to enforce the provisions of such
private covenants, contracts, commitments, agreements or other similar
regulations to which the township is not a party. Unless the township has an
ownership interest in the property, a deed restriction is enforced by the
parties to the agreement, not by the township.
      (5)   State law amendments. Whenever codes or statutes cited in this
chapter refer to state law that has been amended or superseded, this chapter
shall be deemed automatically amended in reference to the new or revised code.
   (E)   Maps, appendices and tables referenced in this chapter are
incorporated by reference and are part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 1.5)
§ 154.006 DEFINITIONS - WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED.
   (A)   Usage. For the purposes of this chapter, certain numbers,
abbreviations, terms and words used herein shall be used, interpreted and
defined as set forth in this section.
      (1)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense; words used in the singular number
include the plural; and words used in the plural number include the singular;
the word HEREIN means in this chapter; the word REGULATION means the
regulations of this chapter; and the words THIS CHAPTER shall mean THE
ORDINANCE TEXT, TABLES AND MAPS INCLUDED HEREIN, AS ENACTED OR SUBSEQUENTLY
AMENDED.
      (2)   A PERSON includes a corporation, firm, entity, limited liability
company, trust, partnership, as well as an individual, or an unincorporated
association of persons such as a club or any other entity; SHALL is always
mandatory; a LOT includes a plot or parcel, a BUILDING includes a structure; a
BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof; USED or OCCUPIED as applied to
any land or building shall be construed to include the words INTENDED, ARRANGED
OR DESIGNED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED.
      (3)   The TOWNSHIP is Sparta Township in Kent County, Michigan; THE
TOWNSHIP BOARD, “Board of Appeals” (or ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS or ZBA), and
PLANNING COMMISSION are, respectively, the Township Board, the Board of Appeals
and the Planning Commission of Sparta Township.
   (B)   Words and terms defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building or structure located on the same lot with
the principal or main building and which is subordinate to the principal or
main building. An ACCESSORY BUILDING is detached from the main building. Where
a structure is integrally attached to a main building in a manner by a wall or
roof, it shall be considered a part of the main building.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily and normally incidental and subordinate
to the principal use or structure and located in the same lot with such
principal use or structure.
      ADULT CABARET. A cabaret that features go-go dances, erotic dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers who exhibit
specified anatomical areas or who exhibit specified sexual activities for
observation of patrons therein.
      ADULT MERCHANDISE STORE. An establishment having, as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock-in-trade, merchandise that is predominantly
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as
defined in this section, or an establishment with a segment or section devoted
to the sale, rental or display of such merchandise.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. Any establishment, or part thereof, used
for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined herein, for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. See §§
154.350 through
154.353 of this chapter.
      AGRICULTURE. Raising and storing of crops, animals and animal products,
forestry, the preparation and marketing of certain agricultural products, and
other commonly accepted agricultural operations for commercial purposes.
      AIRPORT. The Sparta Airport and all appurtenances used or acquired for
airport buildings or other airport facilities and all other appurtenant rights-
of-way or other interests either heretofore or hereafter established.
      AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree within the airport overlay zone
that exceeds the height limitations established by this chapter, or any use of
land or of appurtenances thereto within the Airport Overlay Zone that
interferes with the safe use of the airport by aircraft.
      AIRPORT (OVERLAY ZONE). The area within one mile of the Sparta Airport
measured from the airport property line, wherein certain types of land uses are
regulated due to land use conflicts such as noise, vibrations, fumes, dust,
fuel particles and other effects that can be caused by the operation of
aircraft landing or taking off or operating at the airport.
      ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type
of occupancy; and any change in the roof or supporting members of the building
or structure, such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams, posts, girders
or any change that may be referred to herein as “altered” or “reconstructed”.
Structural changes are also ALTERATIONS.
      ANIMAL. Any dog, cat, bird, reptile, mammal, fish or similar animal.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. Any activity involving the general repair,
rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles, engines or trailers; collision
services, such as body, frame or fender straightening and repair, overall
painting and vehicle rust-proofing.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MINOR. Any activity involving minor repairs to motor
vehicles and the incidental replacement of parts of such vehicles. A place
where either gasoline or any other fuel or lubricating oil or grease for
operating motor vehicles is offered for sale to the public and applied directly
into motor vehicles, including sale of accessories, greasing, oiling and minor
automotive repair on the premises.
      AUTOMOBILE WASH ESTABLISHMENT. A building, or portion thereof, the
primary purpose of which is that of washing motor vehicles.
      BASEMENT or CELLAR. A portion of a building having more than one-half of
its height or mass below grade.
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A private residence that offers
overnight accommodations to lodgers in the innkeeper’s (owner or operator)
principal residence and serves breakfast at no extra cost to its lodgers. For
the purpose of this definition, a LODGER means a person who rents a room in a
bed and breakfast establishment.
      BLUFF. The top of a steep bank rising sharply from the river’s edge
(Public Act 346 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30101 et seq., as amended.)
      BOARDING, LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling primarily used for the
purpose of providing long-term lodging or both meals and lodging for
compensation. Such house is to be distinguished from a hotel, motel or an
institutional use such as a convalescent or nursing home.
      BOTTOM LAND. The land area of an inland lake or stream that lies below
the ordinary high water mark and that may or may not be covered by water
(Public Act 346 of 1972, as amended.)
      BUILDING. A structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established
grade to the highest point of the roof surface if a flat roof; to the deck of
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge, hip and
gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the front lot line, and that marks the
location of the building.
      BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is situated.
      CABARET. A café, restaurant, bar or any establishment where patrons are
entertained by performers who dance, sing or play musical instruments.
      CEMETERY. Any public cemetery owned, managed or controlled by the
township and any other cemetery located within the township.
      CHILD CARE/DAY CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a private residence,
receiving one or more preschool or school age children for care for periods of
less than 24 hours a day, and where the parents or guardians are not
immediately available to the child. CHILD CARE CENTER or DAY CARE CENTER
includes a facility that provides care for not less than two consecutive weeks,
regardless of the number of hours of care per day. The facility is generally
described as a CHILD CARE CENTER, DAY CARE CENTER, DAY NURSERY, NURSERY SCHOOL,
PARENT COOPERATIVE PRESCHOOL, PLAY GROUP or DROP-IN CENTER. CHILD CARE CENTER
or DAY CARE CENTER does not include any of the following:
         (a)   A Sunday school, a vacation bible school or a religious
instructional class that is conducted by a religious organization where
children are in attendance for not more than three hours per day for an
indefinite period or not more than eight hours per day for a period not to
exceed four weeks during a 12-month period; and
         (b)   A facility operated by a religious organization where children
are cared for not more than three hours while persons responsible for the
children are attending religious services.
      CONSTRUCTION. The building, erection, alteration, repair, renovation (or
demolition or removal), or installation of any building, structure or
structural foundation; or the physical excavation, filling and grading of any
lot other than normal maintenance shall constitute CONSTRUCTION. This does not
include agricultural operations other than the erection of buildings.
      CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A home for the care of children or the aged
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, wherein
seven or more persons are cared for. Said home shall conform and qualify for
license under state law.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
      DISH ANTENNA. A parabolic or similar designed structure intended to
receive or transmit radio, television, microwave or satellite communications or
the like.
      DISTILLERY. An establishment for the manufacturing and selling of spirits
or alcohol, or both, of any kind.
      DWELLING or APARTMENT. A building or a portion thereof designated or used
exclusively as a residence or sleeping place for one or more persons, including
one-family, two-family and multiple dwellings, apartment hotels with cooking
facilities, boarding and lodging houses and mobile homes used for such
purposes, but not including motels, motor hotel, tourist rooms, travel
trailers, motor homes, trailers or truck campers. Every DWELLING shall have a
minimum width of at least 22 feet for its entire length and a minimum of a
double pitched roof of not less than two and one-half feet of rise for each 12
feet of run, shall have a roof overhang of not less than six inches on all
sides and shall have either a basement or a crawl space below the entire bottom
of the building of four feet with a vapor barrier consisting of Visqueen or a
minimum of two inches of concrete on the floor of the crawl space provided with
adequate drains to drain away accumulated water in the crawl space.
      DWELLING, AGRICULTURAL (FARM). A dwelling or accessory dwellings used to
house persons primarily engaged in agriculture on the parcel or adjacent
parcels, and which dwelling or accessory dwellings are incidental and
subordinate to the principal agricultural use of the parcel or adjacent
parcels.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, used or
designed for occupancy by more than two families living independently of each
other. This definition does not include single-family attached dwellings or
two-family dwellings.
      DWELLING, NON-AGRICULTURAL. A dwelling used to house persons not
primarily engaged in agriculture on the parcel or adjacent parcels, and which
dwelling is not incidental, nor subordinate, to a principal agricultural use on
or nearby the dwelling site.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY (DETACHED). A unit exclusively for use by one
family that is entirely surrounded by open space or yards on the same lot. In
no case shall a mobile home be considered a SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING in
terms of this chapter, nor as a low density use.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building used or designed for use
exclusively by two families living in separate dwelling units and each doing
their own cooking in said building. It may also be termed DUPLEX.
      DWELLING, UNDERGROUND. See UNDERGROUND HOME.
      EFFICIENCY UNIT (STUDIO). A dwelling unit for one individual or small
family consisting of one room, exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets and the
like.
      ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance of public utilities by public utilities or municipal departments or
commissions of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission, or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems (including towers, structures, poles, wires, mains, drains,
sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, hydrants, telephone exchanges and or repeater buildings, electric
substations, gas regulators, stations and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith (but not including communication towers
regulated under §§
154.266 and
154.285 through
154.290 of this chapter) reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public utilities or municipal departments or commissions for
the public health, safety or general welfare. This does not include sanitary
landfills and sewage treatment facilities.
      FAMILY. Either of the following:
         (a)   A domestic family, which is one or more persons living together
and related by the bonds of blood, marriage or adoption, together with servants
of the principal occupants and not more than one additional unrelated person,
with all of the individuals being domiciled together as a single, domestic,
housekeeping unit in a dwelling; or
         (b)   The functional equivalent of the domestic family, which is
persons living together in a dwelling unit whose relationship is of a permanent
and distinct character and is the functional equivalent of a domestic family
with a demonstrable and recognizable bond which constitutes the functional
equivalent of the bonds which render the domestic family a cohesive unit. All
persons of the functional equivalent of the domestic family must operate as a
single housekeeping unit. This definition shall not include any society, club,
fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, coterie, organization or group where
the common living arrangement and/or the basis for the establishment of the
functional equivalency of the domestic family is likely or contemplated to
exist for a limited or temporary duration.
      FARM LABOR HOUSING. Sometimes also commonly referred to as an
AGRICULTURAL LABOR CAMP or HOUSING FOR MIGRANT WORKERS OR MIGRATORY LABORERS.
Living quarters, including housing accommodations, rooming houses, dormitories,
and mobile homes maintained directly or indirectly in connection with any work
of or place where work is being performed by seasonal or permanent farm or
agricultural workers, whether or not rent is paid or reserved for use or
occupancy. Farm labor housing is also subject to state and federal
requirements.
      FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters
from any source.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
of the building measured from the interior faces of the exterior walls from the
centerline of walls separating two buildings. FLOOR AREA shall not include
elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor, floor space used for mechanical
equipment (except equipment open or enclosed, located on the roof), attic space
having headroom of seven feet or less, or interior balconies or mezzanines. Any
space devoted to off-street parking or loading shall not be included in FLOOR
AREA. Areas of basements, utility rooms, breezeways, porches or attached
garages are not included; except, however, that, the FLOOR AREA of a building
shall include the basement floor area when more than one-half of the basement
height is above the established curb level, or finished lot grade, whichever is
higher.
      GARAGE, AUTOMOTIVE COMMERCIAL. Any premises available to the public, and
used solely for the storage of automobile or motor-driven vehicles, for
remuneration, hire or sale, and where any such vehicles or engine may also be
serviced for operation, or repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed. This does not
include private garages that are accessory to a principal use without fee.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main
building used primarily for the storage or parking of passenger vehicles or
household items that are owned and used by the residents thereof.
      GRADE. The established grade of the street or sidewalk shall be the
elevation of the curb at the mid-point of the front of the lot. The elevation
is established by the Township Engineer or Building Inspector.
      GREENBELT or BUFFER STRIP. The strip of land not less than ten feet in
width that is planted and maintained with trees acceptable to the Zoning
Administrator from five to six feet in height spaced not more than ten feet
apart; or a hedge row of suitable shrubs not less than four feet in height; not
more than three feet apart.
      HARMFUL INCREASE. An unnaturally high stage on a river, stream or lake
that causes or may cause damage to property, threat to life, personal injury or
damage to land or water resources.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any materials that have been declared to be
hazardous to any agency of the state or of the United States, including, but
not limited to, toxic materials and metal hydroxides.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A profession or other occupation not otherwise permitted
in the zoning district involved, that is conducted as an accessory use within a
single-family dwelling by one or more members of the family residing in the
dwelling, and that conforms to the provisions of §
154.208 of this chapter.
      INSTITUTIONAL USES. Churches, schools, hospitals and other similar public
or semi-public uses. This excludes nursing homes, convalescent homes and adult
foster care facilities.
      JUNKYARD. Any lot used for the collecting, storage, processing, parting,
dismantling, salvaging and/or abandonment of wastepaper, rags, scrap metal,
machinery, vehicles or other personal property or parts thereof whether or not
such use is conducted inside, outside or partially inside and outside of a
building or structure.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, six months old or
older, are kept for the purpose of breeding, permanent or temporary boarding,
sale or any other reason.
      LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental, routine study or basic study
such as testing and analytical operations, and which manufacturing of product
or products, except prototypes for test marketing, is not performed.
      LAND USE PLAN. (Also called the MASTER PLAN.) The land use plan for the
township duly adopted by the Township Planning Commission on 4-16-1980, as
amended.
      LIQUID MATERIALS. Any materials, substance or compound in a liquid, semi-
liquid or solid state.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building or
group of buildings, for temporary parking for a commercial vehicle while
loading or unloading merchandise or materials. OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not
to be included as off-street parking space in computation of required off-
street parking. A LOADING SPACE is 500 square feet in area.
      LOT. A platted lot, plot or parcel of land including such open spaces as
are arranged and designed to be used in connection with such buildings. A LOT
may or may not be the land shown on a duly recorded plat. If more than one lot
of record is held in common ownership and said lots are contiguous, undeveloped
and substandard in size to the minimum lot size in the zoning districts, they
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, be held as one LOT or as many lots as
shall leave no lot substandard. Also, a unit in a site condominium.
      LOT AREA. The area of a lot bounded by lot lines.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot in which lot lines form an interior angle of less than
135 degrees at the intersection of two street lines. A lot abutting on a curved
street or streets shall be deemed a CORNER LOT if the tangents to the curve
(measured at the points of intersection of the side lot lines with the street
lines) intersection at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE. The amount of a lot that is covered by all roofed
buildings, impermeable surfaces and structures located thereon. This shall be
deemed to include all buildings, structures, paved or cement surfaces,
accessory uses and off-street parking and loading, but shall not be deemed to
include fences, walls or hedges used as fences or swimming pools.
      LOT LINES. A boundary line of a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from a public street,
private road or other thoroughfare.
      LOT LINE, REAR. Any lot line, other than a front lot line, that is
parallel or nearly parallel to the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot that actually exists in a subdivision plat as shown
on the records of the county’s Registrar of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described
by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT WIDTH. The minimum distance between side lot lines measured at all
points and measured at right angles to the side lot lines.
      MASSAGE. A method of treating the external parts of the human body by
rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping or vibrating with the hand or any
instrument.
      MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment, or part thereof, having a fixed
place of business where massages are administered solely or in combination with
any other service or activity for pay, including, but not limited to, massage
parlors, health clubs, sauna baths and steam baths. This definition shall not
be construed to include a hospital, nursing home, medical clinic or the office
of a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath or physical therapist duly
licensed by the state, nor barber shops or beauty salons in which massages are
administered only to the scalp, the face, the neck or the shoulders. This
definition shall not be construed to include a non-profit organization
operating a community center, swimming pool, tennis court or other educational,
cultural, recreational and athletic facilities or the welfare of the residents
of the area. This definition shall not be construed to include exercise clubs
exclusively for members without massages in any form.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.
         (a)   Except as set forth below, any business, facility, structure,
association, club, collective, cooperative, location or operation, whether
fixed or mobile, whether for profit or non-profit, where medical marijuana is
made available to, sold, used, grown, consumed, cultivated, processed, stored,
dispensed, given, delivered or distributed by or to any of the following:
            1.   A registered primary caregiver (as defined by Michigan
Initiated Law 1 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. § 333.26421 et seq., as amended);
            2.   A registered qualifying patient (as defined by Michigan
Initiated Law 1 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. § 333.26421 et seq., as amended); and
            3.   Members of the public.
         (b)   A MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall also include any business,
facility, club, association, collective, cooperative or operation, whether
fixed or mobile, whether for profit or non-profit, where medical marijuana is
smoked, consumed or used by three or more persons simultaneously.
         (c)   A MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall not include the
dispensation of medical marijuana by a primary caregiver personally dispensing
to not more than five qualified patients in strict accordance with the state’s
Medical Marijuana Act, Michigan Initiated Law 1 of 2008, as amended, and the
requirements of this chapter so long as the lawful amount of medical marijuana
is delivered to the qualifying patient and paid for where the qualifying
patient resides and it is done in full compliance with this chapter as well as
all other applicable township ordinances and all applicable state laws, rules
and regulations.
         (d)   A MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall also not include smoking,
consuming or use of medical marijuana by a primary qualifying patient in strict
accordance with the state’s Medical Marijuana Act, Michigan Initiated Law 1 of
2008, as amended, and the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable
township ordinances and all applicable state laws, rules and regulations.
         (e)   A MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall also not include uses
occurring in compliance with this chapter and all laws and rules of the state
at the following locations: a state-licensed health care facility; a state-
licensed residential care facility for the elderly or infirmed; or a
residential hospice care facility.
      MICRO-BREWERY. An establishment that manufactures in total less than
1,000 barrels of beer per year and that may sell the beer manufactured to
consumers and to retailers at the licensed brewery premises for consumption on
or off the licensed brewery premises.
      MINING or MINERAL EXTRACTION. The excavation, digging, mining, removal
and/or processing of peat, earth, gravel, sand, clay, top soil, stone or other
soils or materials, including overburden, or the storage or transporting of
such items on, to or from a mining site, or the reclamation of the site after
removal or excavation of such items. For the purposes of this chapter, the
following excavation or other activities are not included within the definition
of MINERAL EXTRACTION or MINING:
         (a)   Excavation approved and conducted by a governmental body of
competent jurisdiction in conjunction with the installation or maintenance of
publicly-owned or publicly-operated utilities, drainage facilities, roads or
other publicly owned or operated improvements, where the excavation is limited
solely to the public utility or improvement. Notwithstanding the preceding, any
excavating, removal and/or processing of minerals which occurs in conjunction
with the creation of a new public road or modification of an exiting public
road where the existing grade is modified or disturbed to more than three feet
from its present elevation or where such mining in excess of 500 cubic yards
will occur beyond the boundaries of the road right-of-way, shall be considered
MINERAL EXTRACTION or MINING;
         (b)   Excavation which by its nature is of limited scope and duration
and which is undertaken primarily for the immediate use and development of the
land excavated, such as for purposes of constructing or installing buildings,
septic tanks, swimming pools, graves and the like, so long as no more than
5,000 cubic yards of material are mined or excavated in total;
         (c)   Excavation in conjunction with bona fide farming operations
conducted in accordance with generally accepted agricultural practices,
including agricultural drainage work incidental to farming operations and
irrigation or stock watering ponds, if no material is removed from the
property;
         (d)   Other excavations not exceeding 5,000 cubic yards in total where
the Zoning Administrator determines, in his or her sole discretion, that the
proposed excavation is unlikely to unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of
life or property and will not expose any person or property to the types of
dangers inherent in mineral extraction or mining sought to be prevented by this
chapter. The Zoning Administrator’s determination may be based on a review of
the purpose, location, extent or duration of the proposed excavation and other
factors which may bear on the potential of any excavation activity to adversely
affect the public health, safety or general welfare of the community;
         (e)   Where the MINING occurs more than 500 feet from any street or
property line, occupies not more than two acres in total area, does not
constitute an average intensity of use of more than five yards of material per
day and creates no area that fills with water other than a watering pond for
farms;
         (f)   Any MINING associated with the control and regulation of oil or
gas; and
         (g)   The transport or storage of mined materials (or materials
frequently associated with mining operations) shall not be deemed MINING or
part of a MINERAL EXTRACTION if the materials transported or stored are not
combined with minerals mined from the site to which the materials are
transported or on which the transported materials are stored. The activity of
transporting or storing mined materials that are not combined with other
materials mined from the site to which the transporting occurs (or on which the
transported materials are stored) shall constitute an industrial use and will
not be considered MINING or MINERAL EXTRACTION.
      MINI WAREHOUSE OR STORAGE FACILITY. The storage or warehousing of
personal property by a number of individuals or entities within separate
compartments or rooms within one or more completely enclosed buildings with the
facility operated as a single use.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a chassis and designed to be used with or without permanent
foundation, when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in the structure.
MOBILE HOME does not include a recreational vehicle per state law. All MOBILE
HOMES must conform to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s
Code for Mobile Homes. MOBILE HOME includes a double-wide unit. MOBILE HOMES in
the township are deemed to be appropriate only for medium to high density
residential uses and are provided for in districts that are so zoned. This
definition shall apply when used as a dwelling or any other use.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land, under the control of a
person upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual, non-
recreational basis, and that is offered to the public for that purpose
regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended or used
incidental to the occupancy of a mobile home, and that is not intended for use
as recreation vehicle trailer park (Public Act 419 of 1976, as amended). Mobile
homes used only for seasonal migrant housing in an agricultural zone shall not
be construed to be MOBILE HOME PARKS, but must conform to state laws governing
agricultural farm labor camps and to local zoning rules.
      MODULAR. A structure that meets the requirements of the B.O.C.A. Building
and Construction Code, and that is transported in one or more sections on a
removable chassis, and is designed to be used on a permanent foundation, and
when connected to the required utilities, such as plumbing, heating and
electrical systems. Pursuant to B.O.C.A. the characteristics of a MODULAR are:
         (a)   A pitched roof of heavy truss construction able to support a
“deadweight” of at least 40 pounds and having roof shingling of five-inch
exposure;
         (b)   A heavy deck flooring of wood on two-by-eight floor joists;
         (c)   A drain ventilation size of three inches in diameter extending
12 inches above the roof; and
         (d)   Establishment on a poured wall or cement block and mortar
foundation.
      MOTEL, HOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A building or a series of attached, semi-
detached or detached rental units providing long term or transient lodging with
motor vehicle parking in an area contiguous to the building. No kitchen or
cooking facilities are to be provided in units for use by the manager and/or
caretaker.
      MYOMASSAOLOGIST. A person who offers their services for hire in the
practice of massage.
      NET BUILDING AREA. Contiguous land excluding land subject to flooding six
months of the year, poor drainage, steep slopes, rock outcrops and land
encumbered by easements.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of this chapter.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. (Also called a LAWFUL NON-CONFORMING LOT OR
SUBSTANDARD LOT.) A lot lawfully existing at the effective date of this
chapter, or affecting amendment, and that fails to meet the minimum area or
other dimensional requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. (Also called a LAWFUL NON-CONFORMING
STRUCTURE.) A structure, or portion thereof, lawfully existing at the effective
date of this chapter, or affecting amendment, and that fails to meet the
minimum setback, area or other dimensional requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. (Also called a LAWFUL NON-CONFORMING USE.) A use
lawfully existing in a building or on land at the effective date of this
chapter, or affecting amendment, and that fails to conform to the use
regulations of this chapter or the zoning district in which it is located.
      NUDE ARTIST AND PHOTOGRAPHY STUDIOS. Any building, structure, premises or
part thereof used solely or primarily as a place that offers as its principal
activity the providing of models to display specified anatomical areas, as
defined herein, for artists and photographers for a fee or charge.
      OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY. In accordance with
Ch. 96 of this code of ordinances, OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY, hereinafter referred to as
ASSEMBLY, means any event, attended by more than 500 attendants, all or any
part of which includes a theatrical exhibition, public show, display,
entertainment, amusement or other exhibition, including, but not limited to,
musical festivals, rock festivals, peace festivals or similar gatherings, but
does not mean:
         (a)   An event that is conducted or sponsored by a governmental unit
or agency or political subdivision of the state on publicly-owned land or
property; or
         (b)   Any event held entirely within the confines of a permanently
enclosed and covered structure.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Sparta Township Planning Commission.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which a lot is devoted and the principal
purpose for which the building or premises exists.
      QUARRY, QUARRYING OPERATION. Any place where stone, gravel, minerals or
other natural materials, including topsoil, is removed for the purpose of sale
or any other commercial purposes, other than such as may be incidental to
excavating or regarding in connection with or in anticipation of building
development or landscaping on the site.
      RECREATION VEHICLES. A vehicle primarily designed as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel purposes, including a vehicle
having its own motor power or a vehicle mounted on or drawn by another vehicle,
per state law.
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY. Any facility that is involved in the
inquiry, examination, investigation or experimentation aimed at the discovery
and/or interpretation of facts, revision of accepted theories or laws in the
light of new facts, or practical application of such new or revised theories of
laws and the development thereof. Development may include a limited number of
test units of a given product resulting from such research and shall include
limited production while a product is being test marketed that is the interim
step between full research and development and ultimate full scale production.
      RIVER’S EDGE (ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK). The line between upland and
bottomland that persists through successive changes in water levels below which
the presence and action of the water is so common or recurrent that the
character of the land is marked distinctly from the upland and is apparent in
the soil itself, the configuration of the surface soil and the vegetation.
      ROAD FRONTAGE. The length of the lot line that borders a public street or
private road.
      ROAD or STREET. A public or private road or street right-of-way or
easement.
      ROAD or STREET, PRIVATE. Any non-public path, trail, or road that
provides or is intended to provide the primary means of ingress and egress to
two or more parcels or lots or two or more principal buildings, dwelling units,
structures or combination thereof, whether created by a private right-of-way
agreement, a joint ownership, a license, a lease or an easement. Any and all
extensions, additions or branches of or to a private road shall be considered
part of the private road that abuts the public road. A PRIVATE ROAD shall also
include the following:
         (a)   An access serving one parcel or lot if that parcel or lot does
not have the requisite amount of frontage on a public road as required by this
chapter; and
         (b)   Where two or more parcels or lots or dwellings share or utilize
a common access drive, even if each parcel or lot has the required frontage on
a public road.
      ROAD OR STREET, PUBLIC. Any public road or street right-of-way or
easement that provides vehicular access to adjacent properties.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. Any operation that is required to be licensed by the
state or its agencies as a sanitary landfill and/or is subject to the
requirement of having such a license.
      SEPTIC SYSTEM, SEPTIC TANK. An individual system or tank used for
domestic wastes when a sewer line is not available to carry them to a sewage
treatment facility. Wastes are piped to underground tanks directly from the
home or homes. Bacteria in the wastes decompose the organic waste and the
sludge settles on the bottom of the tank. The effluent flows out of the tank
into the ground through drains. Periodically, sludge is pumped out of the
tanks.
      SETBACK. The horizontal distance from a lot line inward toward the part
of the building nearest to that lot line. It is an area within which no
buildings or structures can be located.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY. (Also known as WASTE TREATMENT PLANT.) A
series of tanks, screens, filters and other processes by which pollutants are
removed from water.
      SIGN. Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or marks, or other
representation, or combination thereof, by which anything is made known, such
as the designation of an individual, a firm, an association, a profession, a
business, commodity or product, and that is located outdoors or is visible
outdoors upon any land or on or in any building. Also, a device, painting,
fixture or placard using color, graphics, symbols and/or written copy designed
and/or utilized for the purpose of advertising or identifying any event,
establishment, product, good, service or displaying or depicting other
information.
      SITE PLAN REVIEW. The submission of plans to the township for review, as
part of the process of securing zoning approval.
      SPECIAL USE APPROVAL. Approval for a use that would not be appropriate
generally or without restriction throughout the zoning district; but which, if
controlled as to the number, area, location or relation to the township, would
not adversely affect the public health, safety, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity and general welfare. Such uses shall be allowed when the
specific review criteria provided in this chapter for them are met.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
            1.   Human genitals, pubic region;
            2.   Buttock; and
            3.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely or opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock or female breast.
      STRUCTURAL CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting member of
a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, posts or girders or any
substantial change in the roof.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected or placed that is an item or
material or combination of materials or items in, on or upon the ground having
a fixed location, including, but not limited to, (temporary or permanent)
buildings, sheds, towers, signs, swimming pools, animal enclosures, garages,
accessory buildings, temporary or portable garage or vehicle enclosure, decks,
patios, platforms, satellite dishes, gazebos, and storage bins, but excluding
lawful fences, lawful docks, sidewalks and paving on streets, driveways or
parking areas. The definition of STRUCTURE also excludes retention walls,
seawalls, decks or patios, no portion of which is located more than 12 inches
above the natural grade, nor closer than five feet to any lot line. STRUCTURES
shall meet all setback requirements.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
         (a)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
either:
            1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
            2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored,
before the damage occurred.
         (b)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
         (c)   The term does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications that are
solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register
of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
      TEMPORARY BUILDING OR USE. A structure or use permitted by the Zoning
Administrator to exist during periods of construction of the main use or for
special events, as may be permitted herein, not to exceed six months.
      TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Township Board for Sparta Township.
      UNDERGROUND HOME. A residence, the roof of which is covered with earth,
and that on at least three sides does not extend upward more than the
surrounding grade levels within 50 feet.
      VARIANCE. A varying or relaxation of any of the requirements of this
chapter by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      WASTE HAULING BUSINESS. Property used in whole or in part for the
business of or in connection with the collection, removal or transport of
hazardous waste, solid waste, recyclable materials, septage waste, liquid
industrial waste or medical waste, including ancillary offices and overnight or
temporary storage of waste hauling vehicles. The terms “hazardous waste”,
“solid waste”, “recyclable materials”, “septage waste” and “liquid industrial
waste” shall have the meaning as defined in Parts 111, 115, 117 and 121 of the
Natural Resources Protection Act (NIREPA), as amended (being M.C.L.A. §§
324.101 et seq.) and the term “medical waste” shall have the meaning as defined
in Part 138 of the Public Health Code, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.3801
et seq. A WASTE HAULING BUSINESS shall not be construed to be a contractors
yard or an open air business under this chapter.
      WINERY. An establishment for the processing, bottling and selling of wine
or other fermented fruit beverage.
      YARD. An open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter.
      YARD, REQUIRED FRONT. The minimum required yard measured from the front
lot line into the interior lot area.
      YARD, REQUIRED REAR. The minimum required yard measured from the rear lot
line into the interior lot area.
      YARD, REQUIRED SIDE. The minimum required yard measured from the side lot
line into the interior lot area.
      ZONING ACT. The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, being Public Act 110 of
2006, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Sparta Township Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA
or BOARD OF APPEALS), the members of which have been duly appointed by the
Township Board, and that is authorized as a body to interpret, hear appeals and
grant variances only in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      ZONING PERMIT. A permit signifying compliance with the provisions of this
chapter as to use, activity, bulk and density, and with the requirements of all
other development codes and ordinances currently in effect in the township.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 2; Ord. 15-03, passed 2-12-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed
- - 2020; Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-8-2021; Ord. 23-4, passed 2-9-2023; Ord. 24-4,
passed 9-12-2024, §§ 1, 2; Ord. 24-6, passed 1-11-2024, § 1)
§ 154.007 INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, morals, safety and the general welfare.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances,
the more restrictive or higher standard shall control.
   (C)   This chapter shall not abridge the provisions of a validly adopted
Building Code, mobile home ordinance, subdivision regulation or other
regulation.
   (D)   Only the uses, building and structures specifically listed within
Appendix A: Table of Use Regulations shall be permitted within each zoning
district as indicated. If not explicitly listed, the use, building or structure
is prohibited within that zoning district. Uses, activities, structures and
buildings not expressly authorized by this chapter are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 17.1; Ord. 24-4, passed 9-12-2024, § 10)
§ 154.008 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole, nor other parts,
section, division or clauses thereof.
   (B)   Upon the invalidation of any clause, division, section or part of this
chapter, any and all prior existing ordinances or ordinance provisions that
have application to the subject or issue at hand, but that had been set aside
or repealed by this chapter, shall immediately be made effective again.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 17.2)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND CONDITIONS
§ 154.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The township is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
Ag-1   Prime Agricultural Preservation
Ag-2   Agricultural
Ap     Airport (Overlay Zone)
C-1    General Commercial
C-2    Highway Commercial
I-1    Light Industrial
I-2    Heavy Industrial
OS-PUD Open Space PUD
PUD    Planned Unit Development
R-1    Low Density-Single-Family
R-2    Medium Density Single-Family
R-3    Medium/High Density: Multiple-Family
R-4    Medium/High Density: Mobile Home Parks
RR     Rogue River
 
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 3.1)
§ 154.021 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The areas and boundaries of such zoning districts are hereby
established to scale as shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map of Sparta
Township", and referred to herein as the "zoning map". Said zoning map,
together with everything shown thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be an integral part of this chapter. Regardless of the existence of
copies of the zoning map that may be made or published, the official zoning map
shall be located at the township office and shall be the final authority as to
the current zoning district status in the township.
   (B)   When uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of zoning districts as
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
rivers, waterways, roads, streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted or
unplatted lot lines shall be construed to follow such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township boundaries
shall be construed to follow township boundaries.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines, stream beds or the
perimeter of a waterbody or watercourse shall be construed to follow the
general established seasonal high-water limit of such shoreline or stream bed,
and in the event of a more than temporary or seasonal change in shoreline or
stream bed shall be construed as moving with the newly-formed/established
seasonal high water limit.
      (5)   The zoning boundary or limit of the Rogue River Zoning District
shall be defined as a line at least 300 feet from the ordinary high watermark
of the river and which said line runs parallel to it.
      (6)   Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the official zoning map.
      (7)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the zoning map, the Zoning Administrator shall
interpret the zoning district boundaries. Upon appeal, the Zoning Board of
Appeals has the authority to review and uphold or override the interpretation
of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 3.2; Ord. passed 1-13-2022; Ord. 24-4, passed 9-12-
2024, § 3)
§ 154.022 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Ag-1, Prime Agricultural Preservation.
      (1)   In accordance with the land use plan, this zoning district
represents most of the land in the western, northern and southern portions of
the township and all the existing orchard lands located therein. Although
zoning district boundaries may or may not follow property lines, land ownership
and the existing use are not determining factors. The zoning classification for
the Ag-1 areas is based on physical soil qualities and capabilities. The Ag-
1 areas consist of large expanses of land classified as prime agricultural soil
according to U.S. Soil Conservation Service criteria.
      (2)   Active agricultural preservation is emphasized as the priority
intent. To a small extent non-farm uses are permissible by special use
approval, but only on land that has been specifically found not to be prime
agricultural soil. The maximum density for non-agricultural dwellings, as
provided in this chapter, shall control. Extensive residential development is
therefore not permitted and shall be restricted. Agriculture in this district
is largely construed to be the highest and best use of the land.
      (3)   In particular, it is also significant to highlight orchard lands as
prime agriculture and worthy of community preservation because of the
beneficial distinction orchards have given the area in terms of aesthetics,
area-wide identity, rural character and economy. In accordance with the goals
and policies of the land use plan, active orchard lands are henceforth
protected and hereby regarded as a unique and desirable, locally significant
form of prime agriculture.
   (B)   Ag-2, Agricultural. This zoning district represents land that may be
farmed, but which is not comprised of prime agricultural soils nor occupied by
orchards. The use of land here for agriculture is valued and respected,
although such use is not as heavily emphasized as in the Ag-1 Zoning District.
Some non-farm or related farm uses are regarded as compatible with the rural
agricultural character of this zoning district and shall be located in this
zoning classification. However, intensive developments are prohibited since
some areas partially encompass wetlands. Certain uses herein listed for this
zoning district shall require special use approval.
   (C)   R-1, Low Density - Single-Family. Development shall be rural and
single family in character with an approximate density of one dwelling unit per
one-half to three-fourths acre. It is the intent that all residential patterns
of low, medium and medium/high densities be contained to the areas east of M-37
and oriented toward the Village of Sparta as a logical transition from rural
country to village urban.
   (D)   R-2, Medium Density - Single-Family. In this zoning district, soils
are generally amenable to slightly higher densities of residential development
without sewering, than R-1 areas. The character shall be a mix of rural/
suburban with densities ranging from about one dwelling per one-half to one
acre, depending on soils. In some areas of R-2, alternative suburban housing
developments with a slightly higher density such as in a planned unit
development with on-site community sewer may be allowed upon a finding of
compatibility with only minor adverse impacts.
   (E)   R-3, Medium/High Density - Multiple-Family.
      (1)   This zoning district applies to multiple family developments
outside of the village limits. Residential sites having this zoning
classification shall be required to have sufficient land area to accommodate a
large number of people and automobiles, the necessary open space requirements
and especially larger volumes of effluent (on-site sewage treatment). Care
shall be taken that land in this zoning district does not conflict with any of
the established goals and policies of the land use plan, nor shall this zoning
district be located on lands west of M-37.
      (2)   It may develop over the next 15 to 30 years that public sewering of
this area may become necessary. While soil capabilities permit medium density
residential uses at present, sewering can become desirable as a cost effective
and more efficient way of handling effluent should total growth occur as
envisioned. Only at such times when prospects of community water or sewer
become cost feasible to the public (or should some human-made degradation of
the area environment occur) would area-wide utilities be recommended.
   (F)   R-4, Medium/High Density: Mobile Home Parks. This zoning district
applies to mobile home park developments outside of the village limits. Lands
having this zoning classification are required to have sufficient land area to
accommodate an intensified land use such as a larger number of people and
automobiles, the necessary open space requirements and especially larger
volumes of effluent (on-site sewage treatment). Care shall be taken that land
in this zoning district does not conflict with any of the established goals and
policies of the land use plan, nor should this district be located on lands
west of M-37. All mobile home parks must meet the requirements and conditions
of this chapter, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the state’s
Mobile Home Commission and other appropriate state and federal agencies.
   (G)   C-1, General Commercial. The C-1 Zoning District is intended for
general convenience type retail businesses and personal service uses, that are
deemed desirable and appropriate to the surrounding residential areas of the
township. Beyond this character of commercial development, new or additional
uses that would create safety and health hazards, offensive and loud noises,
vibration, smoke, glare, heavy truck traffic or late hours of operation, are
hereby prohibited. By the inclusion of this zoning district, it is also the
intent of the township to prevent against the fringe development of convenience
businesses and the random scatteration of similar uses elsewhere in the
unincorporated portions of the community.
   (H)   C-2, Highway Commercial.
      (1)   This zoning district is a strip of highway oriented commercial
activity. Because some soils may play a constraining factor, the highway
commercial character is construed as a “limited intensity commercial strip” on
a large lot scale, supplementing the needs of both the village residents as
well as those in the township. Uses now located here are deemed to be highway
oriented.
      (2)   Henceforth, new and/or additional uses shall be required to
undertake careful site planning in order to ameliorate potentially adverse
impacts on “through” traffic (such as turning movements, access/egress) and on
area topography (such as created from off-street parking, storm water runoff,
natural drainage, erosion and the like).
      (3)   The character of this zoning district is distinctly highway
commercial with respect to space, orientation (road side) and intensity. This
type of commercial is to remain clearly in contrast to the C-1 District, as
well as, the commercial uses in the Village of Sparta wherein its commercial
character is distinctly village urban, smaller lot sizes with a pedestrian
orientation (sidewalks and store front window shopping).
   (I)   Light Industrial.
      (1)   This zoning district denotes an area for industrial growth in the
township. Utilities and services are critical requirements for sizable
industrial growth.
      (2)   Available for use in this zoning district would be the “industrial
park” concept. The overall character may be a combination of light industrial
uses supplemented by office complexes. Local, state and federal environ mental
regulations and constraints, however, would have to be observed.
   (J)   I-2, Heavy Industrial. The I-2 Zoning District is intended to provide
for industrial uses that are primarily of a manufacturing, assembling, and
fabricating character, including the processing of raw materials, junkyards and
specialized industrial processing that may require special sites, facilities
and services.
   (K)   Ap, Airport (Overlay Zone). The existing airport is hereby protected
by an “overlay” zoning district. This overlay means that amidst a primary
zoning district such as agriculture, the alternative use of land for airport
development in the area shown is regarded as acceptable and compatible with the
character and use of the surrounding lands. However, all land development (both
airport and non-airport) within the airport environs shall be regulated, in
part, by the township in order to guard against land use conflicts and airport
hazards. The airport overlay zone is established as that area within one mile
of the Sparta Airport measured from the airport’s property line.
   (L)   RR, Rogue River.
      (1)   Pursuant to Public Act 231 of 1970, as amended, lands within this
zoning district include the Rogue River, its state designated areas as
described in the Rogue River Management Plan, and its associated wetlands.
These natural features are hereby deemed to be environmentally sensitive and in
need of protection.
      (2)   Uses of the land as described in §
154.247 of this chapter are to be encouraged, but shall be in accordance with
safe conservation practices and adherence of the regulations of the Rogue River
Management Plan, as contained in this chapter.
      (3)   The purpose for environmental protection are to preserve and
enhance the value of the Rogue River in terms of ecology, water conservation,
floodplain preservation, its free flowing condition and its fish and wildlife
habitat, as well as its value for boating, scenic enjoyment, aesthetics,
history and recreational uses. In the township, the Rogue River Zone shall
include a strip of land on each side of and parallel to the banks of the Rogue
River and measured at 300 feet from the river’s edge or ordinary high
watermark.
      (4)   The Rogue River Management Plan is contained in the Natural River
Report: Rogue River, prepared by the state’s Department of Natural Resources
and adopted by the state’s Natural Resources Commission, August of 1973.
   (M)   PUD - Planned Unit Development. See §§
154.095 through
154.108 of this chapter.
   (N)   OS-PUD - Open Space PUD. See §§
154.070 through
154.082 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 3.3)
ROGUE RIVER (RR) ZONING DISTRICT
§ 154.035 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Rogue River (RR) Zoning District is established as a preservation
district.
   (B)   Applicants for zoning permits and special use approvals in this zoning
district must meet specific provisions, requirements and restrictions, as
herein provided.
   (C)   Where there is conflict between other more restrictive provisions of
this chapter and those specifically applied to the Rogue River Zoning District,
the latter shall control.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.28)
§ 154.036 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   Land and/or buildings in the RR District may be used for the following
purposes only:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling and appurtenances;
   (B)   Camping and other recreational activities that do not require the
construction of permanent facilities and situated not less than 150 feet from
the river’s edge of the Rogue River;
   (C)   Operating of non-motorized watercraft;
   (D)   Fishing and hunting in compliance with current laws and regulations;
   (E)   Reforestation;
   (F)   Cutting of trees six inches or less in diameter at breast height is
permitted within 50 feet of each side of the river’s edge of the Rogue River
without prior approval of the Building Inspector;
   (G)   Underground gas and utility lines (see §
154.040 of this chapter);
   (H)   Agricultural pursuits, unless the Bureau of Water Management
determines that such pursuit will contribute to degradation, in which event
such use shall not be closer than 50 feet from the river’s edge of the Rogue
River;
   (I)   Except as permitted in §
154.040 of this chapter, licensed motor vehicles are permitted only outside an
area measured 300 feet from the edge of the Rogue River. Such use is permitted
on existing public and private roads and designated trails on land owned by the
federal government, state or any subdivision thereof; and
   (J)   Other uses determined by the Planning Commission to be similar in
nature.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.28)
§ 154.037 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to exceed two and one-half stories or 35
feet in height, whichever is lesser.
   (B)   Necessary appurtenances to a permitted structure may exceed such
height.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.28)
§ 154.038 AREA REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure or appurtenance thereto including septic systems
shall be hereafter erected or constructed unless all of the following yard and
building coverage requirements are met and maintained:
   (A)   Setbacks: 150 feet measured horizontally from the Rogue River’s edge
except that a building or structure may be erected or constructed five feet
closer to the river’s edge for each foot of vertical bank height exceeding ten
feet until a minimum of 100 feet is reached; provided, however, that, no such
structure or building shall be erected closer to the river than 20 feet
landward from the break of the river bank within said 150-foot setback;
   (B)   Lot width: 200 feet; and
   (C)   No building shall be placed on lands within 300 feet of the river’s
edge where the highest ground water table is within six feet of the ground
surface.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.28)
§ 154.039 ACCESSORY USES.
   Such uses that are accessory or incidental to the principal use permitted in
this chapter shall be allowed as restricted as follows.
   (A)   Docks. Docks may be constructed not to exceed six feet in width nor
more than 20 feet in length. No dock shall extend toward the center of the
river more than four feet.
   (B)   Signs. Only those signs necessary for identification, direction,
resource information and regulations of use are permitted along public use
areas of the Rogue River. Signs advertising the sale of products or services
are prohibited on private property in this zone.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.28)
§ 154.040 SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITED ACTIONS AND USES.
   (A)   Cutting, filling or building in a floodplain;
   (B)   Stream alteration (damming, dredging, filling, channelization,
enlarging or diminishing a stream or stream improvement) without the express
written consent of the state’s Department of Natural Resources as required by
the Inland Lakes and Streams Act of 1972, being Public Act 346 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30101 et seq.;
   (C)   Utilities:
      (1)   No gas, oil pipelines or electric transmission lines shall be
permitted in the Rogue River District or to cross the Rogue River, except on
existing rights-of-way, without prior written consent of the Natural Resources
Commission;
      (2)   New distribution lines shall not cross the Rogue River or housing
setback zones unless they are placed underground; and
      (3)   The utilities specified herein to private dwellings shall originate
from the landward side of the dwelling.
   (D)   Access:
      (1)   No vehicular access to the river not existing at the date of
adoption of the amendment shall be provided;
      (2)   No public roads not in existence at the date of adoption of this
amendment shall be permitted in the RR Zone;
      (3)   No public road in the RR Zone shall be relocated or improved until
plans therefor have been approved by the Natural Resources Commission;
      (4)   No road access to private property shall be permitted without prior
approval of the Zoning Administrator;
      (5)   Private road access shall not be permitted within 150 feet of the
Rogue River, except as provided in §
154.038 of this chapter; and
      (6)   Cutting of trees of more than six inches in diameter at breast
height is prohibited within 50 feet of each side of the river’s edge of the
Rogue River without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.28)
AIRPORT OVERLAY (AO) ZONE
§ 154.055 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of the provisions herein is to require additional
public safety standards for the protections of both airport users and people
who live and work in the vicinity from airport hazards.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.29)
§ 154.056 BOUNDARIES.
   The AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE is defined as that area within one mile of the
Sparta Airport measured from the airport property line. Within this overlay
zone, land directly in the path of all airport approaches (to the runway) shall
be specifically regulated, as provided herein.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.29)
§ 154.057 HAZARDOUS HEIGHT LIMITATION STANDARDS FOR AIRPORT APPROACHES.
   This section establishes the following standards.
   (A)   The height of all structures to be located within the airport approach
path and within the horizontal distance of 200 feet from the airport property
line, as shown in the town’s airport approach plan, shall not exceed 35 feet
above the established elevation of the airport.
   (B)   Any building or structure beyond the horizontal distance of 200 feet
from the airport property line that exceeds the height of 35 feet shall be
permitted only as a special use. In addition to the other requirements for a
special use (as stated in this chapter and that must be met), the applicant
must show that the proposed height of said building or structure will not
create unsafe conditions that hazardously affect flight patterns of existing
runways; or that will impede or create unsafe conditions for any proposed
expansion of existing runways or the construction of new runways.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.29)
§ 154.058 UNLAWFUL LAND USES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, it shall be unlawful
to put any lands within the airport overlay zone to any use that would:
   (A)   Create electrical interference with radio communication between the
airport and aircraft or create interference with navigational aids employed by
aircraft;
   (B)   Make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and
other lights or result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport;
   (C)   Create air pollution in such amounts as to impair the visibility of
flyers in the use of the airport; or
   (D)   Would otherwise endanger the landing, taking off or maneuvering of
aircraft.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.29) Penalty, see §
154.999
OPEN SPACE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (OS-PUD) DISTRICT
§ 154.070 INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter provides enabling authority and standards for the
review and approval of applications for open space planned unit developments
(OS-PUDs). The intent of this subchapter is to offer an alternative to
traditional subdivision design by encouraging innovation and offering
flexibility in the design of residential developments, which may incorporate
the permanent preservation of open space, agricultural lands and other valuable
natural and cultural resources.
   (B)   The OS-PUD District is intended to achieve the following objectives:
      (1)   To require a process for designing residential communities in which
the first and most important step is identifying the land that is to be
preserved as open space;
      (2)   It allows residential developments to have varied lot sizes and to
allow buildings and roads to be placed to preserve natural features;
      (3)   It preserves wildlife habitat; and
      (4)   It encourages the provision of village greens and the development
of recreational and other support facilities in a generally central location
within reasonable distance of all units.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.1)
§ 154.071 AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An OS-PUD may be approved by the Township Board following a
recommendation from the Planning Commission in any location master planned as
RA, Rural Agricultural, LDR, Low Density Residential or zoned Ag-2, R-1 or R-2,
in accordance with the procedures of §§
154.095 through
154.108 of this chapter. Areas that are master planned for MHDR, Medium High
Density Residential, or zoned R-3 may also be approved for an OS-PUD zoning,
but only if public or community sewer and water are provided.
   (B)   The granting of an OS-PUD rezoning application shall require an
amendment of this chapter and zoning map. An approval granted under this
subchapter shall constitute part of this chapter.
   (C)   If this subchapter does not address a particular matter or procedure
for an OS-PUD, then §§
154.095 through
154.108 of this chapter shall apply to that matter or procedure.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.2)
§ 154.072 QUALIFYING CONDITIONS.
   Any application for rezoning to an OS-PUD Zoning District shall meet all of
the following minimum requirements.
   (A)   In order to be eligible for rezoning to OS-PUD, the parcel shall
consist of at least five contiguous acres.
   (B)   The proposed development shall be under unified ownership or control
such that there is one person, group of persons or legal entity having
responsibility for the completion and ongoing maintenance of the development in
compliance with this chapter. This requirement for unified ownership or control
shall not prohibit a transfer of ownership or control, so long as there is
still unified ownership or control of and for the development as required by
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.3)
§ 154.073 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in an OS-PUD may only be used for the following uses or
combination of such uses:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
   (B)   Two-family attached dwelling units (duplexes); provided that, such
dwellings do not constitute more than 25% of the total dwelling units;
   (C)   Multi-family dwelling units but only if the land requested for
rezoning to OS-PUD is recommended for medium high density residential land use
in the township’s Master Plan and public or community sanitary sewer and water
is provided; and
   (D)   Accessory uses, structures and buildings that are customarily
associated with the uses specified above, including the following.
      (1)   Limited farming activities are permitted if conducted within the
PUD. For purposes of this section, farming activities shall be limited to the
growing of crops, fruits and vegetables and the raising and keeping of farm
animals. In permitting farming activities as part of the PUD, the project shall
demonstrate that the farming activities will not pose a nuisance or a hazard to
the residents of the PUD.
      (2)   Golf courses, tennis courts, ballfields, bike paths, walking paths,
playground, community buildings, horse stables and similar recreational
facilities as well as day care facilities; provided, such uses are accessory to
the residential uses in the PUD. Such uses shall be designed to be used
primarily by residents of the PUD, but this shall not prohibit non-PUD
residents from utilizing these accessory uses provided the rules for such use
are set forth in the open space agreement required by this subchapter.
      (3)   Accessory buildings in an OS-PUD shall comply with the requirements
of §
154.252 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.4)
§ 154.074 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Modifications of existing regulations. The lot area, lot width,
building height, dimensional, setback, and yard requirements, general
provisions, signs, and parking regulations contained in this section that would
apply for the zoning district in which the uses or uses proposed are normally
allowed and that would be the most restrictive regulations for the uses
proposed shall be met except that the Township Board (following a
recommendation from the Planning Commission) may increase, decrease or
otherwise modify these regulations, as may be requested by the applicant, in
order to achieve the goals and objectives of this chapter; however, all
development shall comply with the density requirements and setback requirements
detailed in §
154.080. Other criteria that shall be used in making these determinations shall
include the following:
      (1)   Whether the modifications requested will result in a project that
better satisfies the intent and objectives of this section;
      (2)   The modification shall be compatible with adjacent existing and
future land uses and shall not significantly adversely affect the use and
enjoyment of nearby property;
      (3)   The modification will result in the preservation of existing
vegetation or other natural features on site;
      (4)   The modification is necessary due to topography, natural features
or other unusual aspects of the site;
      (5)   The modification will improve or not impede emergency vehicle and
personnel access;
      (6)   The modification will improve or not impede adequate pedestrian
circulation; and
      (7)   The modification shall not result in traffic or other safety
hazards; shall not result in visual blight, distraction or clutter, and shall
not otherwise result in a detriment to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
   (B)   The proposed development shall also comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.5; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 154.075 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   An OS-PUD shall provide and permanently maintain the following minimum
amount of dedicated open space in accordance with the standards of this
subchapter. For purposes of this subchapter, DEDICATED OPEN SPACE shall mean
that portion of an OS-PUD that is permanently preserved in an undeveloped state
through an open space preservation agreement as required herein.
   (A)   For land master planned for rural agricultural or zoned Ag-2, 25% of
the total area of the site shall be preserved as dedicated open space.
   (B)   For land master planned for low density residential or medium high
density residential or zoned R-1, R-2 or R-3, 15% of the total area of the site
shall be preserved as dedicated open space.
   (C)   Open space shall also comply with §§
154.076,
154.077 and
154.078 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.6)
§ 154.076 AREAS NOT COUNTED AS DEDICATED OPEN SPACE.
   The following shall not count as open space:
   (A)   The area within all public or private road rights-of-way;
   (B)   Golf course;
   (C)   Any easement for overhead utility lines;
   (D)   The area within a platted lot, site condominium unit or metes and
bounds parcel occupied or to be occupied by a building or structure not
permitted to be located in open space;
   (E)   Off-street parking area;
   (F)   Detention and retention ponds created to serve the project;
   (G)   Community drain fields;
   (H)   Fifty percent of the area of wetlands, creeks, streams, existing ponds
or lakes or other bodies of water; and
   (I)   Fifty percent of the area of floodplains and 50% of areas of slopes of
more than 20%.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.7)
§ 154.077 STANDARDS FOR OPEN SPACE.
    The following standards shall apply in order for land to be deemed
preserved open space required by this subchapter.
   (A)   Features to be preserved. In order to approve an OS-PUD project, the
Planning Commission must determine that the parcel of land contains natural
features which would be preserved through the use of cluster development. Such
features must include at least two of the following:
      (1)   Natural stands of large trees;
      (2)   Significant or unusual natural habitat for wildlife within the
developed portion of the property;
      (3)   Unusual topographic features;
      (4)   Annually productive farmland; or
      (5)   Water or wetland areas.
   (B)   A substantial portion of the open space shall be reasonably usable by
the residents of the land for passive recreational uses such as hiking or
picnicking.
   (C)   The open space may include a recreational trail, picnic area,
children's play area, community building or other use that as determined by the
Planning Commission, is substantially similar to these uses.
   (D)   A portion of the dedicated open space shall be located along the
public road frontage abutting the site. The depth of this area shall be at
least 50 feet not including public road right-of-way, and this area shall be
left in its natural condition or landscaped to help reduce the view of houses
on-site from the adjacent roadway and preserve the rural view.
   (E)   Open space areas are encouraged to be linked with any adjacent open
spaces, public parks, bicycle paths, or pedestrian paths.
   (F)   The open space shall be available for all residents of the
development, subject to reasonable rules and regulations and shall be
reasonably accessible to the residents of the open space development. Safe and
convenient pedestrian access points to the open space from the interior of the
open space shall be provided.
   (G)   If the land contains a lake, stream, or other body of water, the
Planning Commission may require that a portion of open space abut the body of
water.
   (H)   Open space shall be located so as to preserve significant natural
resources, natural features, scenic or wooded conditions, bodies of water, and
wetlands.
   (I)   All open space must be determined by the Planning Commission to be:
      (1)   Quality and desirable land;
      (2)   For preserved farmland, of a size, topography, soil type and
location so as to be able to be productively and reasonably used for crops;
      (3)   Not merely left over or undevelopable land; and
      (4)   Involving features that will enhance the desirability and value of
the lots/units.
   (J)   The overall design of the open space development should emphasize the
rural character of the township, provide views to open spaces from as many
areas of the development as possible, and avoid long, straight, street segments
and rows of homes.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.8; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 154.078 METHODS TO PRESERVE OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant shall provide an open space preservation and
maintenance agreement to the Township Board stating that all dedicated open
space portions of the development shall be maintained in the manner approved.
      (2)   Documents shall be presented that bind all successors and future
owners in title to commitments made as part of the proposal.
      (3)   This provision shall not prohibit a transfer of ownership or
control; provided, notice of such transfer is provided to the township and the
land uses continue as approved in the OS-PUD Plan, unless an amendment is
approved by the Township Board.
   (B)   The agreement must be acceptable to the Township Board and may consist
of a recorded deed restriction, covenants that run perpetually with the land or
a conservation easement established according to state law.
   (C)   The legal instrument shall:
      (1)   Indicate the proposed permitted use(s) of the open space;
      (2)   List the parties who have an ownership interest in the open space.
The residents of the PUD by virtue of an association or other similar entity
shall at all times maintain an ownership interest in the dedicated open space;
      (3)   Require that the open space be maintained and controlled by parties
who have an ownership interest in the dedicated open space; and
      (4)   Provide standards for scheduled maintenance of the open space,
including periodic removal of underbrush to reduce fire hazard and the
necessary pruning and harvesting of trees and new plantings.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.9)
§ 154.079 DENSITY AND NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS ALLOWED.
   (A)   (1)   An area that is requested for rezoning to OS-PUD shall only be
developed in accordance with the density recommended by the township’s Master
Plan.
      (2)   The permitted number of dwellings for the proposed PUD area shall
be based on the density recommendation of the Master Plan designation of the
property as set forth in §
154.080 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Township Board, following a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, may choose to allow fewer dwellings than permitted by the density
table if, in the opinion of the Board, a reduction in the number of dwellings
proposed would better achieve the intent and objectives of the PUD District.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.10)
§ 154.080 DENSITY AND SETBACKS TABLE.
 
Master Plan   Zoning District Minimum Lot Size Minimum Yard     Minimum Lot
Category                                       Setbacks         Width
                              27,500 square    Front yard
                              feet (0.63       setback: 35 feet
Low Density                   acres)           Rear yard
Residential   R-1             Maximum density: setback: 35 feet 125 feet
(LDR)                         0.63 units/acre  Side yard
                              (for developed   setback: 10 feet
                              lot area)
                              Maximum density:
Medium High                   3.62 units/acre
Density                       provided both
Residential   R-3             public or
(MHDR)                        community water
                              and sewer is
                              provided
                              30,000 square
                              feet (0.69       Front yard
Rural                         acres)           setback: 35 feet
Agricultural  Ag-2            Maximum density: Rear yard        125 feet
(RA)                          0.69 units/acre  setback: 35 feet
                              (for the         Side yard
                              developed lot    setback: 10 feet
                              area)
 
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.11; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 154.081 FORMULA TO DETERMINE NUMBER OF DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The number of dwellings that may be constructed within an OS-PUD shall
be determined as follows:
      (1)   Determine gross site area. The gross site area may include road
right-of-way if included in legal description;
      (2)   Subtract half of the primary conservation areas. For purposes of
this chapter, PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS shall be defined as existing wetlands,
creeks, streams, ponds, lakes or other waterbodies, floodplains and slopes over
20%; and
      (3)   Multiply this acreage by the maximum average density from the
density table to determine the number of dwellings permitted.
   (B)   The determination of the existence of wetlands and floodplain areas on
a parcel shall be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission
through a written determination by the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality or by an analysis performed by a professional biologist, ecologist,
environmental engineer or similar professional person deemed acceptable to the
Planning Commission.
      (1)   Additional dwellings above what is allowed by this section may be
permitted at the discretion of the Township Board following a recommendation by
the Planning Commission if the development provides additional amenities or
preserves additional open space that would result in a significant recognizable
benefit to the township and residents of the PUD. Items that could be added to
a PUD so it may be eligible for consideration for additional dwelling units
shall include one or more of the following items as well as similar items:
         (a)   Provision of recreational facilities such as playground areas
with play equipment, ballfields, bike path, human-made lake, and community
building or similar recreation facility;
         (b)   Additional landscaping to preserve or enhance the rural view
along the roadway;
         (c)   Enhancement of existing wetlands, subject to applicable
regulations; and
         (d)   Provision of a public or community water and/or sanitary sewer
system.
      (2)   (a)   If additional dwelling units are to be permitted, the maximum
number of dwelling units shall be determined by multiplying the maximum average
density permitted in the density table by the gross acreage of the site
excluding only the acreage devoted to any non-residential uses.
         (b)   In no case shall the number of dwelling units exceed what is
permitted by this section.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.12)
§ 154.082 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW AND PREPARATION OF PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Application. An applicant for an OS-PUD rezoning shall comply with the
PUD submittal and review requirements of §§
154.095 through
154.108 of this chapter.
   (B)   OS-PUD design process.
      (1)   A site plan for an OS-PUD shall be prepared according to the
following process.
      (2)   Approval of an OS-PUD site plan shall be based on how closely the
site plan conforms to this design process as well as conformance to the
standards for approval of an OS-PUD contained in §§
154.095 through
154.108 of this chapter.
   (C)   Two plans. The applicant shall prepare two plans: a Natural Features
and Development Area Map and a Preliminary Site Plan using the design process
described below.
      (1)   The Natural Features and Development Area Map shall illustrate the
primary conservation areas and those other areas on the site that are to be
preserved as dedicated open space on the site.
         (a)   Primary conservation areas, for purposes of this chapter, shall
be defined as existing wetlands, creeks, streams, ponds, lakes or other
waterbodies, floodplains and slopes over 20%.
         (b)   The dedicated open space illustrated on this map shall comply
with the requirements for open space of this subchapter.
         (c)   Only one-half of the primary conservation areas shall be counted
toward the required amount of dedicated open space.
      (2)   Label other natural site features such as woods, stands of trees,
specimen trees, farm lands and fields, meadows and hedgerows, farm buildings
and fences.
      (3)   The dedicated open space as required by this subchapter shall be
clearly labeled on the map. The areas outside the dedicated open space shall be
illustrated on the map as the development area, which is the only area where
house sites may be located.
      (4)   Next, determine the number of houses permitted for the site by this
subchapter.
      (5)   On the same natural features and development area map illustrate
the tentative location of house sites. House sites shall only be located within
the development area. A house site shall not be located within the primary
conservation areas or other areas illustrated as dedicated open space. The
location of house sites should be done according to the following design
standards.
         (a)   Houses should be placed so that the predominant view from the
house is of open space and not of dwellings on the opposite side of the street.
         (b)   Houses should be placed so that scenic views are left unblocked
or uninterrupted, particularly as seen from the public road right-of-way.
         (c)   In order to maintain scenic views and rural character, dwellings
placed directly on hilltops shall be discouraged if the dwelling is unscreened
from the view of nearby properties and roads. Dwellings that are three stories
as viewed from nearby public streets shall also be discouraged as such
dwellings can detract from the rural view.
      (6)   On the Natural Features and Development Area Map illustrate the
conceptual location of streets that shall be designed to serve the allowed
house sites. Trails shall also be illustrated on this plan. The location of
streets should be designed according to the following design standards:
         (a)   Avoid crossing wetlands and wildlife habitat areas with streets;
         (b)   Street systems should be designed to produce terminal vistas
(views) of open spaces, village greens, water features, meadows or playing
fields;
         (c)   Streets should have houses on only one side as this will allow
residents a view of open spaces within the development;
         (d)   Every effort should be made to connect each street with another
to minimize dead-ends, to provide safe and efficient access for emergency and
public service vehicles, and to avoid conditions where certain residential
streets become collectors that carry the majority of neighborhood traffic;
         (e)   Where cul-de-sacs are unavoidable, they should be provided with
pedestrian and bike linkages to nearby streets or adjoining neighborhoods;
         (f)   Streets serving new developments should be designed to connect
with adjoining properties; and
         (g)   OS-PUD developments shall, where feasible and appropriate,
provide a trail system that provides pedestrian and bicycle linkage throughout
the development, that take advantage of the open space areas. Linkage to future
neighborhoods and developments that may occur adjacent to the development may
be provided and are encouraged.
      (7)   (a)   Next, prepare a separate plan to be known as the Preliminary
Site Plan in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter. Draw lot lines for each house site and the road
rights-of-way within the development area. Illustrate the boundaries of the
development area on the Preliminary Site Plan.
         (b)   The lots should be designed according to the following design
standards.
            1.   Lots shall be of a size and width necessary to obtain approval
from the county’s Health Department. If permitted by the Health Department,
septic drain fields may be located within the dedicated open space areas
outside the lot lines.
            2.   As part of the Preliminary Site Plan, the applicant shall
provide documentation from the county’s Health Department that the soil types
in the buildable areas are acceptable for on-site well and septic systems.
      (8)   The natural features map plan and the Preliminary Site Plan shall
be submitted to the Planning Commission for Preliminary Site Plan review
according to the procedures of this chapter.
   (D)   General procedures. The general PUD review procedures of §§
154.095 through
154.108 of this chapter regarding the site plans and rezoning shall be
followed.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 12.13)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUDS)
§ 154.095 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The purpose of the Planned Unit Development Zoning District (“PUD”) is
to encourage and allow a variety of uses to be located within one zoning
district on the same site as such developments would not be allowed under
traditional zoning regulations whose purpose is to separate differing uses by
zones. The Planned Unit Development Zoning District is not intended for single
use residential developments but for projects with a mix of dwelling unit
types, residential and non-residential uses or larger non-residential uses that
are otherwise not specifically authorized by this chapter.
      (1)   A PUD is intended to allow substantial flexibility in planning and
designing a project. This flexibility often accrues in the form of relief from
compliance with conventional zoning ordinance site and design requirements.
Ideally, this flexibility results in a development that is better planned, that
contains more amenities and ultimately a development that is more desirable to
live in than one produced in accordance with typical zoning ordinance and
subdivision controls.
      (2)   Through proper planning and design, each planned unit development
should include features that further, and are in compliance with, the following
goals and objectives.
   (B)   (1)   It will allow a mix of uses, structures, facilities, housing
types and open space in a manner compatible with existing and planned uses on
nearby properties.
      (2)   It will allow for the design of developments that achieves better
utilization of land than is possible through strict application of standard
zoning and subdivision controls.
      (3)   It encourages land development that, to the greatest extent
possible, preserves natural vegetation, respects natural topographic
conditions, and does not adversely affect wetlands, floodplains, the natural
drainage pattern drainage and other natural site features.
      (4)   It promotes the efficient use of land resulting in networks of
utilities, streets and other infrastructure features that maximize the
allocation of fiscal and natural resources.
      (5)   It promotes further creativity in design and construction
techniques.
      (6)   It will provide for the regulation of legal land uses not otherwise
authorized within this chapter.
      (7)   It will provide for single non-residential or mixed use
developments that respect the goals and objectives of the township’s Master
Plan.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.1)
§ 154.096 AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   Except for those lands recommended for Prime Agriculture use in the
township’s Master Plan, a Planned Unit Development Zoning District may be
approved by the Township Board in any location within the township in
accordance with the procedures, regulations and standards of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.2)
§ 154.097 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and buildings in a PUD may only be used for the following uses or
combination of such uses:
   (A)   Single- and two-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, and
townhouses are permitted, but only if combined with a different dwelling unit
type or a non-residential use as part of a unified PUD development. A PUD that
proposes only a single type of dwelling (such as all single-family dwelling)
shall not be permitted;
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings as a single use project;
   (C)   Any use permitted by right in the C-1, General Commercial, C-2,
Highway Commercial, I-1, Light Industrial, or I-2, Heavy Industrial Zoning
Districts;
   (D)   Any special use permitted in the C-1, C-2, I-1 or I-2 Zoning Districts
when specifically authorized by the Township Board following a recommendation
from the Planning Commission; and
   (E)   Any legal land use not specifically authorized by this chapter that
the Township Board determines would satisfy the purpose and objectives of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.3)
§ 154.098 QUALIFYING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Minimum parcel size. In order to be eligible for PUD rezoning, the
area proposed for rezoning to PUD shall consist of a minimum of two acres
except, in the case of a multiple-family dwelling project whereby the minimum
area requirement shall be one acre. In areas recommended in the township’s
Master Plan for Rural Agricultural and Low Density Residential, the minimum
parcel size shall be five acres.
   (B)   Unified control. The proposed development shall be under unified
ownership or control such that there is one person, group of persons or legal
entity shall have responsibility for the completion and ongoing maintenance of
the development in compliance with this chapter. This requirement for unified
ownership or control shall not prohibit a transfer of ownership or control, so
long as there is still unified ownership or control of and for the development
as required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.4)
§ 154.099 DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Modifications of existing regulations. The lot area, lot width,
building height, dimensional, setback, and yard requirements, general
provisions, and parking regulations contained in this chapter that would apply
for the zoning district in which the uses or uses proposed are normally allowed
shall be met except that the Township Board following a recommendation from the
Planning Commission may increase, decrease or otherwise modify these
regulations, as may be requested by the applicant, in order to achieve the
goals and objectives of this subchapter; however, all development shall comply
with the density requirements and setback requirements detailed in §
154.080. Other criteria that shall be used in making these determinations shall
include the following:
      (1)   Whether the modifications requested will result in a project that
better satisfies the intent and objectives of this subchapter;
      (2)   The modification shall be compatible with adjacent existing and
future land uses and shall not significantly adversely affect the use and
enjoyment of nearby property;
      (3)   The modification will result in the preservation of existing
vegetation or other natural features on site;
      (4)   The modification is necessary due to topography, natural features
or other unusual aspects of the site;
      (5)   The modification will improve or not impede emergency vehicle and
personnel access;
      (6)   The modification will improve or not impede adequate pedestrian
circulation; and
      (7)   The modification shall not result in traffic or other safety
hazards; shall not result in visual blight, distraction or clutter; and shall
not otherwise result in a detriment to the public health, safety or general
welfare.
   (B)   The proposed development shall also comply with the requirements of §
154.072.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.5; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 154.100 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL USES.
   For planned unit developments that will devote all or a portion of the site
to residential use, the following requirements shall apply in addition to the
other applicable requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   (1)   The permitted number of dwellings for the proposed PUD area
shall be as regulated by §
154.079 of this chapter. If the area proposed for PUD zoning is not master
planned for any specific residential density, the density and number of
dwellings permitted shall be determined by the Township Board following a
recommendation by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   In making this determination, the Planning Commission and Township
Board shall take into consideration the density recommended for the surrounding
lands, the nature of the existing land uses nearby, the type and number of
dwellings proposed by the applicant and the intent and objectives of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Dwelling units should be arranged so that they are compatible with
non-residential uses on the site.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.6)
§ 154.101 MINIMUM DEDICATED OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   A PUD shall provide and maintain the minimum amount of dedicated open space
in accordance with the requirements of §
154.075 of this chapter; except that, the open space requirements along the
existing road abutting the site may be modified by the Planning Commission if
non-residential uses abut the roadway. If the project does not contain any
residential uses, then a minimum of 5% of the site shall be dedicated open
space. This space may preserve or enhance a specific natural feature of the
site or may consist of a central community square or squares that could be
utilized for gatherings, civic functions, passive recreation such as picnicking
or strolling or similar uses. This space shall be separate from and in addition
to any landscaping requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.7)
§ 154.102 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   In making a recommendation to approve a PUD, the Planning Commission must
find that the proposed PUD meets the standards for final development plan
approval as set forth in §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter and that all of the following standards will also be
met.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Granting the PUD rezoning will result in a recognizable and
substantial benefit to ultimate users of the project and to the community and
the benefit would otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be achieved.
      (2)   The PUD will not result in a significant increase in the need for
public services and facilities and will not result in significant adverse
effects upon nearby or adjacent lands or the natural environment, unless the
resulting adverse effects are adequately provided for or mitigated by features
of the PUD as approved.
      (3)   The PUD will be generally compatible with the Master Plan of the
township and consistent with the intent and objectives of this section.
      (4)   The project can be adequately served by public utilities such as
police and fire protection or public or on site community water or sanitary
sewer.
      (5)   The project complies with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Residential standards for a PUD with all residential or a mix of
residential and non-residential uses.
      (1)   Protects the rural roadside character by preserving or enhancing
the view along the roadway and improves public safety and vehicular carrying
capacity by avoiding development that fronts directly on to existing roadways.
      (2)   The project provides walkways so that pedestrians can walk safely
and easily throughout the site.
      (3)   The individual lots, buildings, roadways and open space areas are
designed to minimize the alteration of environmental site features.
      (4)   The project provides for a mix of residential housing types, non-
residential uses, and useable open space or would allow for a use not
specifically authorized in this chapter.
      (5)   The design is such that the impact of the differing uses upon each
other is minimized.
   (C)   Standards for a PUD with no residential uses. The PUD will not result
in hazardous traffic flow and will be designed to manage traffic in a safe and
efficient manner.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.8)
§ 154.103 PUD PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section sets forth the procedures, regulations and
approval standards to rezone land to the Planned Unit Development Zoning
District and the Open Space Planned Unit Development Zoning District in the
township. For purposes of this section, the terms PUD and PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT shall mean both the Open Space Planned Unit Development Zoning
District and the Planned Unit Development Zoning District.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Preapplication conference. Before submitting an application for a
PUD, an applicant may meet with the Planning Commission or Township Zoning
Administrator, Planner or Engineer to submit information regarding a proposed
PUD and to confer with the Planning Commission, or staff, about the proposed
application and the PUD.
      (2)   Application for PUD approval. An application for a PUD rezoning
shall be in accordance with the application procedures for site plan review as
required by §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter. In addition, the applicant shall submit any fee or
escrow requirement as may be adopted by resolution of the Township Board.
   (C)   Preliminary development plan. An applicant for PUD rezoning shall
submit a site plan in accordance with the requirements for preliminary site
plan review as set forth in §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter and all of the requirements of this chapter if the
applicant is requesting a rezoning to OS-PUD. The applicant shall also submit
ten copies of a narrative describing:
      (1)   The proposed density, number and types of dwelling units;
      (2)   If the proposed project will be served by water or sanitary sewer
systems, a statement from a registered professional engineer describing methods
and capacities; and
      (3)   Calculations demonstrating compliance with the chapter requirements
for open space and number of permitted dwellings.
   (D)   Environmental impact assessment. The Planning Commission may require
an environmental impact assessment as part of the preliminary or final site
plan. This assessment shall describe the effect and impact that the proposed
PUD will or may have upon or with respect to the following matters:
      (1)   The lands involved and the adjacent and nearby lands; streams,
rivers, wetlands and the quality and volume of surface and ground water;
wildlife and trees and other significant vegetation;
      (2)   Population in the immediate area and the township; local school
systems; traffic congestion;
      (3)   Additional costs to governmental units and school districts; police
and fire protection; storm water drainage; water supply and sewage disposal;
      (4)   Noise, vibration, dust and dirt, litter, smoke, odor, light and
glare;
      (5)   Traffic impact study;
      (6)   An economic feasibility study for the principal uses of the
proposed PUD; and
      (7)   An analysis of the nature and effect of any private utility
systems, including septic tanks and drain fields, storm water control and
retention facilities and water supply and distribution systems.
   (E)   Review of preliminary development plan. The Planning Commission shall
review the preliminary development plan and make recommendations to the
applicant regarding the PUD, together with any recommended changes or
modifications thereof. Such review and other consideration of the preliminary
plan shall take place at a public meeting or meetings of the Planning
Commission, and at meetings of committees of the Planning Commission, where
appropriate.
   (F)   Final development plan.
      (1)   After receiving the recommendations of the Planning Commission on
the preliminary development plan, the applicant for PUD rezoning shall submit
three copies of the final development plans to the township office in
accordance with the requirements for final site plan review as contained in §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter. Copies of the plan shall be forwarded to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The final development plan shall contain all of the information
required for final site plan review unless the same is waived by the Planning
Commission as not being reasonably necessary for the consideration of the PUD,
plus the following:
         (a)   All of the drawings, narrative, studies, assessments and other
information, and materials comprising the preliminary development plan,
including all of the recommendations of the Planning Commission thereon;
         (b)   Projected time for completion of the entire PUD; proposed
phasing, if any, of the PUD and the projected time for completion of each
phase; and
         (c)   Any other information reasonably required by the Planning
Commission in connection with its review of the PUD and consideration of the
rezoning of the lands in accordance with the PUD plan.
   (G)   Planning Commission public hearing on final development plan. The
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the final development plan
and the application for rezoning in accordance with the plan. See §
154.424 of this chapter.
      (1)   A notice concerning the public hearing on the PUD final development
plan and application for rezoning shall be published in a newspaper that
circulates in the township and sent by mail or personal delivery to the owners
of property for which PUD approval and the rezoning is being considered, to all
persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the boundary of
the property in question and to the occupants of all structures within 300
feet.
      (2)   Such notice must be given not less than 15 days before the date of
the public hearing. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term
“occupant” may be used in making notification. Notification need not be given
to more than one occupant of a structure; except that, if a structure contains
more than one dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different
individuals, partnerships, businesses or organizations one occupant of each
unit or spatial area shall receive notice.
      (3)   In the case of a single structure containing more than four
dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different
individuals, partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be given to
the manager or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post the notice
at the primary entrance to the structure. The notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the PUD and rezoning request;
         (b)   Identify the property that is the subject of the PUD and
rezoning request;
         (c)   State when and where the PUD and rezoning request will be
considered;
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received in
advance of the public hearing on the request; and
         (e)   An affidavit of mailing shall be filed with the Planning
Commission before the public hearing.
   (H)   Consideration of final development plan by Planning Commission. After
the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make recommendations
concerning the final development plan and the modifications in the final
development plan and the rezoning to the Township Board.
   (I)   Standards for approval. In making a recommendation to approve a PUD,
the Planning Commission must find that the proposed PUD meets all of the
standards for approval as contained in this subchapter.
   (J)   Final consideration of the PUD by Township Board. The Township Board
shall review the final development plan and the recommendations submitted by
the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Township Board shall also hold a hearing pursuant to §
154.424 of this chapter.
      (2)   The Township Board shall determine whether the final development
plan complies with the standards, conditions and requirements of this chapter
and, in addition, shall determine whether the proposed project promotes the
intent and purpose of this chapter; ensures that the proposed project will be
compatible with adjacent uses of land, the natural environment and the
capacities of public services and facilities affected by the proposed project;
and ensures that the proposed project will be consistent with the public
health, safety and welfare needs of the township.
      (3)   Upon a determination that a proposed project meets all such
standards, conditions and requirements, the Township Board may approve the
final development plan and grant the rezoning request.
   (K)   Conditions of approval. The Township Board may impose reasonable
conditions upon its approval. Such conditions may include conditions necessary
to ensure that public services and facilities affected by a proposed project
will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by
the land use or activity, to protect the natural environment and conserve
natural resources and energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of
land and to promote the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner. Conditions imposed shall meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   They shall be designed to protect natural resources, the health,
safety and welfare and the social and economic well-being of those who will use
the proposed project under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed project and the community as a whole.
      (2)   They shall be related to the valid exercise of the police power,
and the purposes that are affected by the proposed project.
      (3)   They shall be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this
chapter, be related to the standards established in this chapter for the
proposed PUD under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with
those standards.
      (4)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a PUD shall
be recorded in the record of the approval action and shall remain unchanged
except upon the mutual consent of the Township Board and the property owner.
The Township Board shall maintain a record of conditions that are changed.
   (L)   Rezoning. If the Township Board approves the final development plan
and the proposed application for rezoning, it may rezone the property in
accordance with the Zoning Act, as amended. Publication of the rezoning
ordinance or publication of a summary of the provisions thereof shall be
accomplished in the manner provided by law. Following approval of the PUD
rezoning, the official zoning map of the township shall be changed to reflect
the PUD zoning for the parcel.
   (M)   Conformance to final development plan. A PUD shall be constructed,
conducted, and used in strict conformance with the approved final development
plan and any conditions of approval. Any changes shall only be allowed in
accordance with the requirements of §
154.105 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.9)
§ 154.104 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A PUD approval under this subchapter shall comply with all of the following
requirements.
   (A)   Sidewalks. For areas recommended for low or medium high density
residential land use in the Master Plan, the Planning Commission may require
sidewalks in accordance with Ch.
152 and
153 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Grading. To preserve the natural appearance and beauty of the
property, all graded areas, cuts and fills will be kept to a minimum. In
appropriate cases, retaining walls may be required. Grading within the PUD
shall be planned and carried out so as to avoid erosion, pollution, flooding or
other adverse effects upon the land, and to have a minimal effect upon the
environmental characteristics of the land as reasonably feasible.
   (C)   Private roads. Private roads within a PUD shall conform to the private
road requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Utilities. The OS-PUD shall be served by either private or community
owned well and septic system approved by the county’s Health Department or by a
public water and sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   Storm water management.
      (1)   A storm water management plan shall be submitted with both the
preliminary development plan and the final development plan. This plan shall
provide information on how storm water will be controlled during and after
construction. This plan shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Township Engineer.
      (2)   Storm water shall be substantially managed with green
infrastructure such as vegetated swales, rain gardens, stone weirs or dikes,
sediment basins and shallow storm water areas. Storm water shall be minimally
managed with conventional storm water management structures such as gutters,
catch basins, underground pipes, detention ponds and retention ponds.
Underground detention facilities may be permitted.
      (3)   Storm water detention ponds may be allowed for the containment of
storm water runoff if it is demonstrated that other storm water management
measures as noted above are not feasible due to soil types, topography or other
similar site features.
   (F)   Outdoor lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be designed and located to
avoid casting any direct or reflected glare upon neighboring property or upon
adjacent structures within the proposed project.
   (G)   Signs. Signs shall comply with §§
154.380 and
154.381 of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum dwelling unit size. The minimum size of a dwelling unit shall
be as set forth in §
154.273 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.10)
§ 154.105 AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED PUD.
   (A)   An approved final PUD development plan and any conditions imposed upon
final PUD approval shall not be changed, except upon the mutual consent of the
Township Board and the applicant, except as otherwise noted below.
   (B)   (1)   A minor change may be approved by the Zoning Administrator who
shall notify the Planning Commission and the applicant in writing of the minor
change and that such change does not substantially change the basic design or
alter the conditions required for the plan by the Commission. The following
items shall be considered as minor changes:
         (a)   Reduction of the size of any building and/or sign;
         (b)   Movement of buildings and/or signs by no more than ten feet;
         (c)   Plantings approved in the site plan landscape plan may be
replaced by similar types of landscaping;
         (d)   Internal rearrangement of a parking lot that does not affect the
number of parking spaces or alter access locations or design;
         (e)   Changes required or requested by the township for safety
reasons;
         (f)   Changes that will preserve the natural features of the site
without changes the basic site layout; and
         (g)   Other similar changes of a minor nature proposed to be made to
the configuration, design, layout or topography of the site plan that are
deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be not material or significant in
relation to the entire site and which the Zoning Administrator determines would
not have any significant adverse effect on adjacent or nearby lands or the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may refer any decision regarding any
proposed change to an approved site plan to the Planning Commission for review
and approval (regardless of whether the change may qualify as a minor change).
In making a determination whether a change is a minor change, or whether to
refer a change to the Planning Commission for approval, the Zoning
Administrator may consult with the Chair of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   A proposed change, other than a minor change as determined by the
Zoning Administrator, shall be submitted as a formal amendment to the PUD and
shall be processed in the same manner as an original PUD application; except
that, the PUD zoning shall remain in place.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.11)
§ 154.106 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The Township Board, after recommendation by the Planning Commission,
or in its own discretion, may require reasonable performance guarantees or
assurances deemed satisfactory in the circumstances and as authorized by law.
The amount of the performance guarantee shall be determined by the Township
Board based on a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Such arrangements shall be conditioned upon faithful compliance with
all of the provisions and requirements of the PUD and construction and
placement of all of the improvements therein.
   (C)   In its discretion, the Township Board, upon recommendation by the
Planning Commission, may rebate or refund a proportionate share of the amount
specified in a performance bond, letter of credit or other written assurance,
based upon the percent or other portion of improvements completed, as verified
by the Planning Commission or appropriate township official.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.12)
§ 154.107 TIME LIMITATIONS ON DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Each PUD shall be under substantial construction within one year after
the date of approval of the final development plan and adoption of a zoning
ordinance amendment by the Township Board. If this requirement is not met, the
Planning Commission may, in its discretion, grant an extension not exceeding
one year; provided that, the PUD applicant submits reasonable evidence to the
effect that unforeseen difficulties or special circumstances have been
encountered, causing delay in commencement of the PUD.
   (B)   If the PUD has not been commenced within the above-stated period of
time, or within any authorized extension thereof, the final development plan
shall be of no further effect, and the Planning Commission and Township Board
may then, in their discretion, initiate proceedings for the rezoning of the
lands to some other zoning district.
   (C)   If the property is not rezoned, then the subject property remains
zoned as a PUD, but the preliminary or final PUD plans previously approved
become null and void. In order to utilize the property as a PUD, an applicant
shall submit plans for preliminary and final PUD site plan approval as required
by this section, but a further PUD rezoning by the Township Board shall not be
required.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.13)
§ 154.108 EXISTING PUDS.
   (A)   Planned unit development projects that were approved as a special use
prior to the adoption of the ordinance requiring that all PUDs be established
as a separate zoning district and that lawfully existed as of the effective
date of this chapter shall be considered to be conforming uses and shall
continue to be regulated by the conditions and the site plan that were approved
for each of these existing PUDs.
   (B)   A major or minor change to these existing PUDs shall be subject to the
procedures and requirements for such changes as set forth in §
154.105 of this chapter; except that, for a major change the number of dwelling
units and amount of open space shall remain as were approved for the final
development plan.
   (C)   If a modification of an existing PUD would enlarge the boundaries of
the existing PUD, then such enlargement shall be subject to the procedures of
this subchapter applicable to a new PUD.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 11.14)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 154.140 INTENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that there exist certain buildings, structures, uses
and lots that were lawful before this chapter (or an amendment to this chapter)
was adopted, and which were legally established, but would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the current regulations of this chapter. It is
the intent of this chapter to allow non-conforming lots, buildings and
structures and uses to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage
their survival.
   (B)   Non-conforming lots, buildings, structures and uses are hereby
declared by this chapter to be incompatible with this chapter and the zoning
districts in which they are located. It is the intent of this chapter that,
unless otherwise expressly permitted, non-conformities shall not be enlarged
upon, intensified, expanded or extended without proper approvals, nor be used
as grounds for adding other buildings, structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the zoning district or this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.1)
§ 154.141 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building, structure or part thereof shall be constructed, erected,
moved, placed, maintained, reconstructed, used, extended, enlarged or altered,
except in full conformity with the regulations herein specified for the zoning
district in which it is located and this chapter.
   (B)   No use shall be established on any lot, land or premises, except in
full conformity with the use regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located and the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   No building or structure shall be established, constructed or used on
any lot, land, or premises except in full conformity with the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located and the requirements of this
chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the
plans, construction or designated use of any building for which a building
permit was issued or on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which
actual building construction has been diligently conducted. A building permit
shall be valid only in the event that the construction that is the subject of
the permit commences within 60 days after the date of issuance and shall be
completed within one year of the issuance date.
   (E)   The township may acquire, through purchase or condemnation, non-
conforming lots, uses, buildings and structures. The Township Board may take
these actions in the manner as provided by law.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the above or anything in this subchapter, a building,
structure or part thereof can be altered so as to bring it into greater
conformity with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.2) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.142 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   If a non-conforming use is abandoned or does not occur for any reason
for a period of 12 consecutive months or longer, any subsequent use shall fully
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   A non-conforming use shall be considered abandoned if one or more of
the following conditions exists, and shall be deemed to constitute an intent on
the part of the property owner to abandon the non- conforming use:
      (1)   Utilities, such as water, gas and electricity to the property, have
been disconnected;
      (2)   The property, buildings or grounds have fallen into disrepair;
      (3)   Signs, structures or other indications of the existence of the non-
conforming use have been removed;
      (4)   Removal of equipment or fixtures that are necessary for the
operation of the non- conforming use; or
      (5)   Other actions, which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator,
constitute an intention on the part of the property owner, tenant or lessee to
abandon the non-conforming use.
   (C)   Uses that are non-conforming solely because of height, area, parking
or loading provisions may be expanded; provided that, the Zoning Administrator
determines that all of the following are applicable:
      (1)   For the purposes of this division (C), expansion shall include
extension or enlargement of the use;
      (2)   All zoning district requirements (and other ordinance requirements)
are satisfied with respect to the expansion;
      (3)   The expansion shall not substantially extend the life of any non-
conforming use by reason of parking and loading provisions; and
      (4)   The non-conforming use is made more conforming or less non-
conforming by the addition of parking and/or loading space. Thereafter, any
subsequent expansion of the non-conforming use or change in use will not be
allowed if it requires even greater parking and/or loading space.
   (D)   A non-conforming use not addressed in division (C) above may be
enlarged when authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals, subject to all of the
following provisions.
      (1)   The enlargement, when allowed, shall not exceed 25% of the area
devoted to a non-conforming use at the effective date of this chapter or
relevant amendment thereto.
      (2)   Any building used for the non-conforming use shall not be non-
conforming or require a variance to effectuate the enlargement of the non-
conforming use.
      (3)   The expansion does not create, or make worse, any adverse effect on
surrounding properties or the neighborhood.
      (4)   The expansion does not intensify the use or unreasonably extend its
probable duration.
   (E)   An existing non-conforming use may be changed to another non-
conforming use; provided that, all of the following determinations are made by
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The proposed use shall be as compatible as or more compatible with
the surrounding neighborhood than the previous non-conforming use.
      (2)   The proposed non-conforming use shall not be enlarged or increased,
nor extended to occupy a greater area of land than the previous non-conforming
use, except as may otherwise be allowed by this section.
      (3)   That appropriate conditions and safeguards are provided that will
ensure compliance with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (4)   Once returned to a conforming use, the previous non-conforming use
shall be considered abandoned and may not be reestablished. Subsequent uses
shall all conform to the requirements of the zoning district.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.3)
§ 154.143 NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any building or structure existing and lawful at the time of enactment
of this chapter, or amendments thereto, may be continued although the structure
does not conform to the current provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Repairs and maintenance work may be made as are required to keep a
non-conforming building or structure in a sound condition.
   (C)   In the event fire, wind or an act of God or the public enemy damages
any non-conforming building(s) or structure(s), it may be rebuilt or restored
provided that the total costs of repair or restoration shall not exceed 50% of
the cost of replacing the entire building or structure before the building or
structure was damaged. The Building Inspector shall determine the cost of
reconstruction.
   (D)   A non-conforming building shall not be expanded in any manner that
increases its non- conforming condition. However, it may be expanded in other
dimensions; provided that, it is in full conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.4) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.144 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   If a non-conforming lot has less than the minimum required area,
frontage or width required for the zoning district in which it is located, the
area, frontage or width may be maintained, unless regulated by division (C)
below, but shall not be made more non-conforming.
   (B)   Where a non-conforming commercial or industrial lot can provide the
side and front yard requirements of its zone, the permitted uses of the zoning
district shall be allowed.
   (C)   Where a lot of record in lawful existence at the time of the adoption
or amendment of this chapter does not meet the minimum requirements for lot
width, dimension or lot area, such lot of record may be used for any purposes
permitted by the district in which the lot is located; provided that, any
building or structure constructed on the lot complies with all yard setback
requirements.
   (D)   If two or more adjoining lots of record or combination of lots and
portions of lots of record, in existence at the time of the passage of this
chapter, or an amendment thereto, with continuous frontage and under single
ownership do not meet the requirements established for lot width, dimension or
lot area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided single lot
for the purposes of this chapter, and no portion of such lot shall be used or
divided in a manner which diminishes compliance with lot width, dimension and
area requirements established by this chapter.
   (E)   Where two or more non-conforming adjacent lots are in the same or
similar ownership and each contain less than minimum required area, dimension
or width of the zoning district in which it is located, the lots shall be
considered a single lot for zoning purposes. These lots may not be used
individually, but shall be deemed automatically combined to create a lot that
conforms as closely as possible to the zoning district regulations.
   (F)   A non-conforming lot may only be expanded if it is brought into closer
conformity with the regulations specified for the zoning district in which it
is located.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.5; Ord. 23-6, passed - -2023, § 1)
§ 154.145 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Every permanent sign in lawful existence at the time of adoption of
this chapter which does not conform to the height, size, area, location or
other requirements of this chapter is deemed non-conforming.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs may not be expanded, enlarged or extended, but
they may be maintained and repaired as allowed by this chapter so as to
continue their useful life.
   (C)   A non-conforming sign may be diminished in size or dimension, or the
copy on the sign may be amended or changed, without adversely affecting the
status of the sign as a non-conforming sign. However, no non-conforming or
other sign may be converted into a digital, tri-vision, LED or similar sign.
   (D)   (1)   If a sign loses its legal non-conforming designation or status,
the sign (and all portions thereof) shall be removed immediately and shall not
be repaired, replaced or rebuilt unless it fully complies with all requirements
of this chapter. A non-conforming sign shall lose its lawful non-conforming
designation and status if the Zoning Administrator determines that any of the
following is applicable:
         (a)   The sign is relocated, moved, rebuilt or replaced; and/or
         (b)   The sign is destroyed. A sign shall be deemed destroyed if any
of the following occurs:
            1.   The sign is torn down or demolished;
            2.   The sign is wrecked or ruined;
            3.   Such damage has been done to the sign that it cannot be
returned to its prior state by routine repair, but only by replacement or
material rebuilding; or
            4.   More than 50% of the face of the sign has been shattered, or a
portion of the sign face touches the ground.
      (2)   If a sign is destroyed, division (E) below (which applies only to
repairs and maintenance) shall not be applicable;
      (3)   Even if a sign has not been destroyed, but damage or deterioration
has occurred to the point of 50% or more, as defined in division (E) below, the
sign shall be deemed to have lost its legal non-conforming status;
      (4)   The structure or size of the sign is altered in any material way
other than a change of copy or normal maintenance which does not physically
alter the sign;
      (5)   There is a material change in the use of the premises where the
sign is located;
      (6)   A building permit is issued for any construction on the premises
where the sign is located which increases the total building square footage by
more than 5% or 5,000 square feet, whichever is less; or
      (7)   The sign is abandoned.
   (E)   (1)   This division (E) shall not apply if a legal non-conforming sign
has been destroyed, since a destroyed sign automatically loses its legal non-
conforming designation and status. If a legal non-conforming sign suffers 50%
or more damage, destruction or deterioration, it must be brought into full
compliance with this chapter or be removed.
      (2)   In order to determine whether or not a sign has been damaged or has
deteriorated by 50% or more, the costs of physically repairing the sign shall
be compared to the costs of physically replacing the sign.
      (3)   If less than 50% damage or deterioration has occurred pursuant to
such comparison, the sign may be repaired to its exact original state.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.6)
§ 154.146 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof for establishing or proving the existence or any aspect
of a lawful non-conforming structure, lot or use (as well as the size, scope,
intensity and extent thereof) is on the owner of the property involved.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 5.7)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 154.160 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   It is recognized that land uses and their location may possess distinct
characteristics that may affect the community, its residents and its
thoroughfares. It is, therefore, necessary to require submission of a site plan
to the township for review and approval in accordance with guidelines and
criteria set forth herein in order to ensure safe development and to avoid
adverse impacts to the township and its citizens.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.1)
§ 154.161 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Zoning
Administrator or the Planning Commission (where applicable) shall review and
approve, deny or approve with conditions a site plan for the proposed
development, activity, or use prior to the issuance of any permits for the
creation of a use or the erection or expansion of a building in the zoning
districts and as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   No use, activity, building or structure that requires site plan
approval shall be commenced, conducted, expanded or constructed until and
unless site plan approval has occurred.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall review and approve, approve with
conditions or deny a site plan for all of the following uses:
      (1)   Any multi-family residential development (not involving a special
use, plat, PUD, OS-PUD or conditional rezoning);
      (2)   Any use in the C-1 General Commercial Zoning District;
      (3)   Any use in the C-2 Highway Commercial Zoning District;
      (4)   Any use in the I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District;
      (5)   Any use in the I-2 Heavy Industrial Zoning District;
      (6)   Any use within the Ap Airport Zoning District (unless provided
otherwise in this chapter);
      (7)   Private streets (except as otherwise provided in §§
154.330 through
154.338 of this chapter);
      (8)   Essential services;
      (9)   Any commercial, industrial, business or office use (unless a
special use, PUD, OS-PUD or conditional rezoning is involved);
      (10)   Home occupations;
      (11)   State licensed residential family care facilities and family day
care homes; and
      (12)   Any expansion, enlargement or change to any of the preceding.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall approve, deny or approve with conditions
a site plan regarding any of the following uses:
      (1)   Any mobile home park;
      (2)   Any site plan associated with a special use in any zoning district;
      (3)   Any plat;
      (4)   Condominiums, site condominiums and subdivisions in any zoning
district;
      (5)   Any site plan associated with a PUD;
      (6)   Any site plan associated with an OS-PUD; and
      (7)   Any expansion, enlargement or change to any of the preceding.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the discretion to forward a site
plan to the Planning Commission for any site plan normally within the
jurisdiction of the Zoning Administrator if the Zoning Administrator determines
that the site plan and proposed use involve matters of significant public
interest and that the Planning Commission may be better equipped to deal with
the particular site plan involved. Should such referral occur with regard to a
particular site plan, all the provisions in this subchapter applicable to
Planning Commission review of a site plan (including the standards for review
and approval by the Planning Commission) shall apply.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.2)
§ 154.162 STANDARDS FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Where the Zoning Administrator performs a site plan review process as
specified in this subchapter, the Zoning Administrator shall not approve a site
plan unless all of the uses, activities, structures, building, parking areas,
drainage and other site conditions and improvements meet all applicable
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the Planning Commission performs a site plan review process as
specified in this subchapter, the Planning Commission shall not approve a site
plan unless all of the uses, activities, structures, building, parking areas,
drainage and other site conditions and improvements meet all other requirements
of this chapter. The Planning Commission shall not approve a site plan unless
all of the following additional standards are also met:
      (1)   The proposed use conforms to the uses permitted either by right or
by special use permit in the respective zoning district;
      (2)   The dimensional arrangement of buildings and structures conforms to
the required yards, setbacks and height restrictions of the ordinance, unless
waived by variance granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA);
      (3)   The proposed use conforms to all use and design provisions and
requirements (if any) as found in this chapter for certain specific uses,
unless waived by variance granted by ZBA;
      (4)   There is a proper relationship between the existing and proposed
streets and highways within the vicinity in order to assure the safety and
convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
      (5)   The proposed on-site buildings, structures and entryways are
situated and designed to minimize adverse effects (upon owners and occupants of
adjacent and surrounding properties) by providing for adequate design of
access/egress, interior/exterior circulation, storm drainage, erosion, grading,
lighting and parking, as specified by this chapter or any county or state law;
      (6)   As many natural features of the landscape shall be retained as
possible where they can be useful to the development on the site or where they
furnish a barrier or buffer between the project and adjoining properties (used
for dissimilar purposes) or where they assist in preserving the general safety,
health and appearance of the neighborhood (such as, controlling erosion or the
discharge of storm waters and the like);
      (7)   Any adverse effects of the proposed developments and activities
emanating therefrom upon adjoining residents or owners shall be minimized by
appropriate screening, fencing or landscaping (as provided or required in this
chapter);
      (8)   In the case where the current use is commercial or industrial, not
publicly sewered, and the application is to change, convert, add or expand such
commercial or industrial use, a statement from the county’s Health Department
must be submitted certifying that the present on-site septic disposal system is
adequate to meet the needs of the changed, converted, added or expanded use
after development;
      (9)   All buildings and structures are accessible to emergency vehicles;
and
      (10)   The site plan as approved is consistent with the intent and
purpose of zoning, which is to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare to encourage the use of lands in accordance with their character and
adaptability; to avoid the overcrowding of population; to lessen congestion on
the public roads and streets; to reduce hazards of life and property; and to
facilitate the land use plan.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.3)
§ 154.163 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for site plan review (along with sufficient copies of
the site plan) shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator along with any
fee or escrow requirements as set by resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   The application shall, at a minimum, contain all of the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address and phone number;
      (2)   Proof that the applicant is the owner of the property or has a
legal or financial interest in the property, such as a purchase agreement;
      (3)   The name, address and phone number of the owner(s) of record if
different than the applicant;
      (4)   The address of the property;
      (5)   Legal description of the property;
      (6)   Current zoning;
      (7)   Project description;
      (8)   Size of the parcel in acres; and
      (9)   Signature of the applicant and owner of the property.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.4)
§ 154.164 CONDITIONAL APPROVAL; PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Reasonable conditions may be attached to any site plan approved by the
Planning Commission. The conditions may include, but are not limited to,
conditions necessary to ensure that public services and facilities affected by
a proposed land use or activity will be capable of accommodating increased
service and facility loads caused by the land use or activity, to protect the
natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to ensure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land and to promote the use of land in a
socially and economically desirable manner. Conditions imposed shall meet all
of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare and the social and economic well-being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes
that are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter, be
related to the standards established in the ordinance for the land use or
activity under consideration and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards.
   (B)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a site plan
shall be recorded in the record of the approval action and shall remain
unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the Planning Commission and the
landowner. A record of conditions that are changed shall be maintained by the
respective approval body.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.5)
§ 154.165 RECORDS AND COMPLIANCE.
   Upon approval of the site plan, the Zoning Administrator or the Chair of the
Planning Commission (whichever is applicable) shall sign three copies thereof.
Two copies shall be kept by the township, and the third shall be returned to
the applicant. All subsequent actions relating to the activity authorized by
the approved site plan shall be consistent with the plan unless a change
conforming with this chapter receives mutual agreement with the land owner and
the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission (whichever is applicable).
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.6)
§ 154.166 COMPLIANCE WITH PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   Compliance with applicable performance standards for certain uses enumerated
elsewhere in this chapter is also required.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.7)
§ 154.167 CONFORMITY TO APPROVED SITE PLAN.
   Property that is the subject of site plan approval must be developed and
used in strict compliance with the approved site plan, and with any revisions,
amendments or modifications made thereto. If construction, development and use
does not conform with such approved plan, the approval thereof shall be revoked
by the Zoning Administrator by written notice of such revocation posted upon
the premises involved and mailed to the developer at his or her last known
address. Upon revocation of such approval, all further construction activities
shall cease upon the site, other than for the purpose of correcting the
violation.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.8)
§ 154.168 SECURITY.
   The Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator (whichever is applicable) is
also empowered to require a performance bond, letter of credit or, in its, his
or her discretion, a certified check, to be posted by the applicant in order to
ensure that all zoning requirements and conditions of approval will be
completed in accordance with the approved site development plan.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.9)
§ 154.169 PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN REVIEW; PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   If desired by the applicant, a preliminary site plan may be submitted
to the Planning Commission, where the Planning Commission has jurisdiction over
the site plan process. The purpose of this procedure is to allow discussion
between the applicant and the Planning Commission, to better inform the
applicant of the acceptability of the project before significant engineering
efforts are incurred that might be necessary for final site plan approval.
   (B)   Applications for preliminary site plan review shall be made in
accordance with the application procedures of this section.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the preliminary site plan and application, the Zoning
Administrator may forward copies to the Township Fire Chief, Planner, Engineer
and others as necessary for review and subsequent report to the Planning
Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall send the application and site plan
to members of the Planning Commission prior to the meeting at which it will be
considered.
   (D)   The preliminary site plan shall be drawn at a scale of not more than
one inch equals 100 feet and shall contain the following information unless
specifically waived by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Existing adjacent streets and proposed streets, public or private,
as well as development within 100 feet of the site;
      (2)   Parking lots and access points;
      (3)   Proposed buffer strips or screening;
      (4)   Significant natural features and other natural characteristics,
including, but not limited to, open space, stands of trees, brooks, ponds,
floodplains, hills and similar natural features;
      (5)   Existing and proposed buildings;
      (6)   General topographical features including existing contour intervals
not greater than ten feet;
      (7)   Proposed method of providing public or private utilities including
storm water drainage; and
      (8)   Small scale sketch of properties, streets and zoned uses of land
within one-half mile of the site.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary site plan and may
make recommendations to assist the applicant in preparing a final site plan
that will conform to the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.10)
§ 154.170 FINAL SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   If desired by the applicant, a final site plan may be submitted for
review without first receiving preliminary site plan approval. Application for
final site plan review shall be made in accordance with the application
procedures of this subchapter, and shall be reviewed in accordance with the
same procedures for preliminary site plans.
   (B)   Final site plans whether submitted to the Planning Commission or
Zoning Administrator (as may be required by this subchapter) shall be drawn at
a scale of not more than one inch to 100 feet and shall contain the following
information unless specifically waived by the Planning Commission or Zoning
Administrator (as the case may be):
      (1)   The date on which the site plan was prepared;
      (2)   The name, address and professional seal of the architect, landscape
architect, engineer or professional surveyor who prepared the plan;
      (3)   A north arrow and legal description based upon the most current
survey;
      (4)   Property lines, dimensions and building setback distances and all
structures, lot lines and wetlands within 100 feet of the site;
      (5)   Existing and proposed topographic elevations at two-foot intervals
on the site and to a distance of 50 feet outside the boundary lines of the
site;
      (6)   Direction of storm water drainage and how storm water runoff will
be handled, as well as a statement describing where storm water will be
ultimately discharged such as a creek, stream, lake or wetland;
      (7)   Location of existing and proposed buildings, their intended use,
the length, width and height of each building, and the square footage and
finished floor elevation of each building;
      (8)   Location of abutting streets, rights-of-way, service drives, curb
cuts and access easements serving the site, as well as driveways opposite the
site and driveways within 100 feet on either side of the site. Also driveway
width, curb radii and design of proposed deceleration lanes;
      (9)   Location and size of all water and sanitary sewer lines and storm
drainage lines as well as fire hydrants and catch basins, and location of
septic tanks and drain fields, and utility easements;
      (10)   Location and type of all sidewalks, bike paths and other walkways;
      (11)   Location, type and size of any walls, fences or other screening
devices;
      (12)   Location of all proposed landscape materials, including size and
type of plantings;
      (13)   Location, size and height of all proposed accessory structures,
flagpoles, storage sheds, transformers, dumpsters or trash removal areas or
devices, and methods of screening, and existing and proposed utility poles.
Rooftop or outdoor equipment shall also be indicated, including proposed
methods of screening where appropriate;
      (14)   Proposed parking areas and access drives showing the number and
dimensions of spaces and aisles, loading areas, handicapped access ramps and
the method of surfacing such areas;
      (15)   Exterior lighting showing areas of illumination and type of
fixtures as well as the method of shielding lights from adjacent properties and
roadways;
      (16)   Location and type of significant existing vegetation, watercourses
and waterbodies including county drains and human-made surface drainage ways,
floodplains and wetlands. Vegetation that is to be retained on the site must be
illustrated;
      (17)   Location of existing and proposed slopes that are 20% or greater;
      (18)   Zoning and land use on adjacent properties;
      (19)   Location and specifications for any existing or proposed above or
below ground storage facilities for any chemicals, salts, flammable materials
or hazardous materials as well as any containment structures or clear zones
required by this chapter or by state or federal agencies;
      (20)   The Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator may request
architectural elevation drawings of a building and cross-section drawings of
the site; and
      (21)   Small-scale sketch of properties, streets and zoned uses of land
within one-half mile of the site.
   (C)   The final site plan for developments that have been proposed in phases
shall generally conform to the approved preliminary plan.
   (D)   (1)   The Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator (as applicable)
may require written statements relative to the effects of the proposed use on
the traffic capacity and safety of existing streets, and the proposed
development’s impact on schools, existing utilities, the environment and
natural features.
      (2)   In addition, the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator (as
applicable) may require additional studies, graphics or other written materials
from the applicant in order to assist in determining the appropriateness of the
site plan.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.11)
§ 154.171 MINOR MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED SITE PLANS.
   Minor modifications may be made to a site plan approved by the Planning
Commission as provided by this section without the need to obtain formal
approval for the change from the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Review and approval by Zoning Administrator. An application for a
proposed minor modification to final site plan initially approved in connection
with a zoning permit by the Zoning Administrator may be reviewed, and approved,
approved with conditions or denied, by the Zoning Administrator alone. The
Zoning Administrator’s decision to approve, approve with conditions or deny a
minor modification shall be made in writing.
   (B)   Review and approval by Zoning Administrator and Planning Commission
Chair; special use. An application for a proposed minor modification to a final
site plan initially approved in connection with a special use approval by the
Planning Commission may be reviewed, and approved, approved with conditions or
denied, by the joint, concurring approval of the Zoning Administrator and the
Chair of the Planning Commission. The decision by the Zoning Administrator and
the Planning Commission Chair to approve, approve with conditions or deny a
minor modification shall be made in writing. The Planning Commission Chair
shall provide a copy of the written decision to the Planning Commission for its
information at the Planning Commission’s next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Referral to Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator and/or the
Planning Commission Chair (as applicable) may, in their discretion, refer any
application for a minor modification to the Planning Commission for review and
approval by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall also review
applications for minor modifications in any case where the Zoning Administrator
and the Planning Commission Chair do not concur in its decision under division
(B) above. The Planning Commission’s decision to approve, approve with
conditions or deny a minor modification shall be made in writing at a regularly
scheduled or special meeting of the Planning Commission. A public hearing shall
not be required.
   (D)   Requirements applicable to all minor modifications. In deciding
whether or not to approve a minor modification, the official or body authorized
to review and approve the requested modification may consult with other city
staff, officials and departments, as appropriate. However, a modification to an
approved plan shall not be approved unless the modification conforms to the
standards and requirements applicable to the site plan in question as provided
by this chapter. If a minor modification is approved, the applicant shall
prepare any required changes to the site plan documents (including, without
limitation, maps and written materials) as necessary to show the approved
modification. No approval of a minor modification shall become final and
effective until the Zoning Administrator has reviewed and approved the changes
made to the site plan documents to reflect the approved modification, and the
necessary documents as revised have been placed on file with the township.
After a modification is final and effective, no activity or use on the property
shall be conducted, except in strict compliance with the plan as modified.
   (E)   Changes eligible for consideration as minor modifications. The
following changes to a final approved site plan shall be the only changes
eligible for consideration as minor modifications as provided by this section:
      (1)   A change of not more than 20 feet in the location of any building
or structure in any direction from the location as originally approved;
provided that, the building or structure is not moved closer to any public or
private right-of-way and remains in compliance with applicable setback
distances;
      (2)   For non-residential buildings, a reduction or increase by no more
than 5% in gross floor area;
      (3)   A change in the height of any building or structure by not more
than 10%; provided that, applicable maximum height limits are not exceeded;
      (4)   The internal rearrangement of parking spaces in a parking lot;
provided that, the total number of parking spaces is not reduced, circulation
hazards or congestion are not created by the redesign and the rearrangement
will not result in increased impacts on adjoining property;
      (5)   The substitution of landscaping or plant materials; provided, they
are substituted by similar types of materials on a one-to-one or greater basis,
as determined by the official(s) authorized to approve the minor modification
as provided by this chapter;
      (6)   A reduction in number of signs, a decrease in the height or size of
signs or an increase in the setback for any sign;
      (7)   A decrease in the width of a curb cut, or an increase of not more
than 50% in the width of a curb cut; provided that, the increase or decrease
complies with all applicable street and highway regulations;
      (8)   Improvements to access and circulation systems, such as the
addition of acceleration/ deceleration lanes, curbing and pedestrian or bicycle
paths; provided, the improvement complies with all applicable street and
highway regulations;
      (9)   An increase in area of areas designated on a plan as being reserved
for open space or as otherwise not being subject to development; and
      (10)   Other similar changes of a minor nature proposed to be made to the
configuration, design, layout or topography of the project if the official(s)
authorized to approve the minor modification as provided by this chapter
determine that the changes are not material or significant in relation to the
entire project and will not have any significant adverse effect on adjacent or
nearby lands or the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 6.12)
SPECIAL USES
§ 154.185 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   In order that this chapter be flexible and reasonable, special uses are
provided for in §
154.247 of this chapter (and at other locations in this chapter) and require
special use approvals by the Planning Commission. Conformance to special use
standards is required, in addition to all other requirements of this chapter.
All such uses are hereby declared to possess characteristics of such unique and
distinct form that each specific use shall be considered on an individual case.
The granting of a special use approval does not negate the requirement for any
other required permit(s) or approvals.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.1)
§ 154.186 STANDARDS FOR CONSIDERATION.
   The Planning Commission shall not approve a special use unless all of the
following standards are met.
   (A)   The special use in combination with the location proposed for such use
shall not impair the general health, safety and welfare of the community-at-
large. In general, there must be:
      (1)   Safe access to the property in question and adjacent properties to
fire and police protection;
      (2)   No dangerous or hazardous area traffic circulation on and off the
site, which either now exists or will be created by the proposed use;
      (3)   Transportation design proposals by the applicant, if necessary,
which will be needed to mitigate any potential traffic impact by the proposed
use; and
      (4)   An appropriate relationship, similarity and compatibility between
the location and scale of the proposed use to the size and type of uses,
structures and buildings currently existing in the immediate vicinity, and
which collectively comprise the overall character of the area.
   (B)   The special use shall not decrease the market value of adjacent
buildings, uses and structures that are permitted by right under current
zoning, if the proposed use is granted.
   (C)   The special use shall be in harmony with the land use plan. This
considers whether the location and size of the proposed use, the nature and
intensity of the activities involved, the size of the site with respect to
existing and future streets (giving access to it), parks and drainage systems
will be in harmony with the land use plan and the character of land use that is
intended by said township plan for the area or district in question.
   (D)   The applicant’s proposed use, its location and intensity and the
height of its buildings, walls, fences and other structures shall not adversely
impact the appropriate character of development intended for the area as deemed
desirable by the land use plan.
   (E)   The special use shall not cause any hazards arising from storage and
use of flammable fluids.
   (F)   The special use shall not be environmentally objectionable to nearby
properties by reason of noise, fumes, pollution, vibration or lights to an
extent that is more than would be the operations of any use permitted by right
for that district wherein the special use is proposed.
   (G)   Before granting a special use approval, in addition to finding that it
meets all of the previously stated requirements, the Planning Commission must
also find:
      (1)   The proposed use will not adversely affect existing adjacent uses
within 500 feet; and
      (2)   There will be no adverse effect upon public health, safety or
general welfare and that it will not impair the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.2)
§ 154.187 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Reasonable conditions may be attached to the approval of a special use
by the Planning Commission. The conditions may include, but are not limited to,
conditions necessary to ensure that public services and facilities affected by
a proposed land use or activity will be capable of accommodating increased
service and facility loads caused by the land use or activity, to protect the
natural resources and energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of
land and to promote the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner. Conditions imposed shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare and the social and economic well-being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and purposes
that are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter, be
related to the standards established in this chapter for the land use or
activity under consideration and be necessary to insure compliance with those
standards.
   (B)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a special use
shall be recorded in the record of the approval action, and shall remain
unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the Planning Commission and the
landowner. The approving Planning Commission shall maintain a record of
conditions that are changed.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.3)
§ 154.188 COMPLIANCE WITH PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Compliance with the performance standards for certain uses enumerated
elsewhere in this chapter is also required.
   (B)   Site plan approval by the Planning Commission is required for all
special uses. Site plans may be initially reviewed by the Zoning Administrator
for content.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.4)
§ 154.189 TIME LIMITATION.
   A special use approval shall be deemed to authorize only one particular
special use and shall expire if the special use shall cease to function for
more than 12 months for any reason, or has not begun within 12 months from the
date of approval.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.5)
§ 154.190 EXISTING VIOLATIONS.
   No approval shall be considered or issued for a special use for a property
where there is an existing violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.6)
§ 154.191 BASIS FOR DECISION IN WRITING.
   It is further provided that in granting or denying a special use, the
Planning Commission shall specify in the written decision the particular
reasons relied upon and its relation to the proposed use.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.7)
§ 154.192 SPECIAL USE APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Special use approval by the Planning Commission is required (as well as site
plan approval by the Planning Commission) for those uses specified as special
uses in §
154.247 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.8)
§ 154.193 NON-AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT OPTION FOR MANAGING DEVELOPMENT AND
AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION.
   The Planning Commission may consider for a property in the Ag-1 Zoning
District as a special use (as provided by this subchapter), a non-agricultural
use that is listed in §
154.247 of this chapter (other than non-agricultural dwellings that are
governed by §
154.207 of this chapter; provided, however, that:
   (A)   The site on which the use is to be located is not able to be used for
agricultural purposes due to factors, including, but not limited to, existing
soil conditions, slope or the presence of wetlands. The Planning Commission in
making its determination shall consider factors such as, but not limited to,
past and present use of the parcel, past productivity and the difficulty in
making the parcel suitable for farming (the Planning Commission shall seek
verification from either the county offices of the U.S. Soil Conservation
Service or the Cooperative Extension Service-Agricultural Division, or both);
   (B)   A septic permit can be obtained;
   (C)   There will be minimal likelihood of conflicts arising between the use
and the surrounding agricultural activities, based on the standards for special
use and site plan review; and
   (D)   The precedent set by allowing the non-agricultural use in the
circumstances under consideration will not adversely affect the long-term plans
and development policies of the township.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.9)
§ 154.194 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL USE PERMITS BY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
   Prior to construction or physical development of a proposed special use, as
specified by this chapter, an application for a special use approval must be
obtained. An application for a special use approval must be made to the Zoning
Administrator.
   (A)   Contents of application. Among the data to be supplied by the
applicant and that shall constitute the application package, the following
shall be included:
      (1)   Names and address of applicant or applicants;
      (2)   Location, shape, area and dimension of the lot and of the proposed
structure or improvement (shown on the site plan);
      (3)   Description of proposed use and of the building (dwelling,
structure, barn, garage and the like) or improvement;
      (4)   The proposed number of sleeping rooms, dwelling units, occupants,
employees, customers and other users;
      (5)   The yard, open space and location of parking spaces (as shown on
the site plan); and
      (6)   A required site plan that must be approved before any granting of a
special use permit.
   (B)   Fee. A fee or fees as set by the Township Board shall accompany any
plans or applications in order to defray the cost of administration and
inspection.
   (C)   General procedural steps. Upon submission of an application for a
special use approval:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   Reviews application package:
            1.   To make sure that it is the right application for zoning
action requested;
            2.   To see that all required information is submitted; and
            3.   To make sure that the proposed use is permitted in a
particular district by special use permit.
         (b)   Takes one or more of the following actions:
            1.   Requests from the applicant that any omitted or necessary
information now be submitted;
            2.   If necessary, seeks ordinance interpretation from the Board of
Appeals;
            3.   Make advisory comments about the site plan based on site plan
review standards; and/or
            4.   Forwards the complete application with comments to the
Planning Commission for review and approval.
      (2)   The Planning Commission.
         (a)   Reviews the site plan according to the site plan review
standards, as set forth in this chapter;
         (b)   Reviews the proposed special use according to standards for
special use permits, as set forth in this chapter;
         (c)   Reviews for compliance with any and all additional site facility
design requirements and standards, as may be required by this chapter; and
         (d)   Holds a public hearing pursuant to §
154.424 of this chapter.
   (D)   Final approval, denial or approval with conditions to be in writing.
When an application for a special use is finally approved, denied or approved
subject to conditions, the decision must be incorporated into an official
written statement that contains the conclusions relative to the special use
permit request. The decision shall specify the basis for the decision and any
conditions that may be imposed in the case of approvals.
   (E)   Utilization. An approved special use must be utilized within one year
during which time construction of the approved special use must begin. A valid
special use approval is eligible for one additional one-year extension granted
by the Planning Commission as a reasonable length of time within which to begin
construction.
   (F)   Inspection. At least two site inspections by the Zoning Administrator
must be held: one during development and one before the use or structure is
occupied. If development is phased or in stages, then one inspection per phase
or stage shall be made.
   (G)   Appeals. No appeal shall be allowed to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
the denial of a special use approval or for any conditions of approval.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 7.10)
SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.205 GENERAL.
   In addition to the general regulations set forth in §§
154.245 through
154.274, 154.285 through
154.290,
154.305 through
154.318,
154.330 through
154.338 and
154.395 through
154.403 of this chapter (and regulations contained elsewhere in this chapter),
the following are specific regulations and design standards for uses listed in
this subchapter, and shall be the minimum governing requirements for the
protection of the public health, safety and general welfare of the community.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.1)
§ 154.206 MANAGED GROWTH, DEVELOPMENT AND AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION;
LIMITATIONS ON NON-AGRICULTURAL USES IN THE AG-1 ZONING DISTRICT.
   In recognition of local, state and national policies toward preserving
agricultural resources; and the fact that both the topography of the township
and its various agricultural uses historically foster much of the area’s rural
economic character and identity, the township hereby states its intent to
preserve for agriculture, as much as possible, that land within its boundaries
that is deemed to be prime agricultural soils, according to U.S. Soil
Conservation Service criteria. Pursuant to this intent, a maximum density for
non-agricultural dwellings is hereby established. In addition, controls and
limitations shall also be imposed for all other non-agricultural uses.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.2)
§ 154.207 MAXIMUM DENSITY REQUIREMENTS AND DEPTH-TO-WIDTH RATIO FOR NON-
AGRICULTURAL DWELLINGS IN THE AG-1 ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Maximum number of lots.
      (1)   The maximum number of lots that may be created for new non-
agricultural dwellings in the Ag-1 Zoning District, in addition to creating a
lot for an existing dwelling unit pursuant to division (A)(2) below, shall be
based on the gross area of the lot of record that is to be split, as listed in
the following table:
Permitted Lot Split Table (“Sliding Scale”)
Area of Lot of Record Maximum Additional Lots Permitted for New Dwelling Units
Permitted Lot Split Table (“Sliding Scale”)
Area of Lot of Record Maximum Additional Lots Permitted for New Dwelling Units
Less than 10 acres    0
10 - 19.99 acres      1
20 - 39.99 acres      2
40 - 59.99 acres      3
60 - 79.99 acres      4
80 or more acres*     5*
NOTES TO TABLE:
*In addition to the 5 permitted additional lots, a lot of record of 80 or more
acres is entitled to 1 additional lot for each increment of 20 acres in excess
of 80 acres. (For example, a lot of record of 100 acres is entitled to a
maximum of 6 additional lots, a lot record of 120 acres is entitled to a
maximum of 7 additional lots, and so forth).
 
      (2)   In addition to the number of lots allowed under the table in
division (A)(1) above, every farm in the Ag-1 Zoning District that contains a
single-family dwelling existing before 8-8-2000 shall be allowed to split a lot
from the lot of record and create a new lot for the existing dwelling. This new
lot shall comply with §
154.273 of this chapter (except as provided in division (C) below), this
section, and other applicable provisions of this chapter for dwellings in the
Ag-1 Zoning District.
      (3)   No splits exceeding the number of splits permitted under divisions
(A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be allowed. After all permitted splits are made,
the remaining portion of the lot of record may be used only for agricultural
enterprises or other permitted uses excluding non-agricultural dwellings.
      (4)   A lot created for a new non-agricultural dwelling and the remaining
portion of the lot of record for agricultural enterprise shall comply with §
154.273 of this chapter (except as provided in division (C) below), this
section and other applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   The above regulations shall not cause the lot of record to be split
in such a manner that would violate the lot split provisions contained in the
Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended. Any provision of this
chapter notwithstanding, the township is not responsible for any violations of
this chapter or Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
      (6)   For purposes of this section, a LOT OF RECORD is a lot of record,
as defined in §
154.006 of this chapter, which exists as of the effective date of this section
of this chapter (8-8-2000). However, when two or more lots of record, as
defined herein, are contiguous and under common ownership on the effective date
of this section (8-8-2000), and the lots are subsequently combined into a
single lot, the combined single lot shall constitute the “lot of record” for
purposes of determining the maximum number of lots that may be created for new
non-agricultural dwellings pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Depth to width ratio; minimum and maximum lot size. Each new lot
created for a non-agricultural dwelling pursuant to divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2)
above shall not have a depth of more than four times its width, shall have a
lot size of not less than one acre and not more than two acres and shall have a
minimum road frontage of 200 feet. These restrictions shall apply at the time
of creation of the lot and thereafter and shall not be violated by the
subsequent transfer of property to the lot from an adjacent parcel. For
purposes of this section, the depth of a lot shall be measured within the
boundaries of the lot from the abutting road right-of way to the most remote
boundary line point of the parcel from the point of commencement of the
measurement, excluding access roads or easements.
   (C)   Exception to minimum lot size; agricultural enterprises. If a lot of
record of 48 acres or less is split to create a lot for a non-agricultural
dwelling pursuant to this section, the minimum net building area for
agricultural enterprises on the remaining portion of the lot of record shall be
80% of the area of the lot of record. This provision applies notwithstanding
the minimum net building area for agricultural enterprises in the Ag-1 Zoning
District in §
154.273 of this chapter. If a lot of record of more than 48 acres is split to
create a non-agricultural dwelling pursuant to this section, the minimum net
building area for agricultural enterprises on the remaining portion of the lot
of record shall be 40 acres as provided in §
154.273 of this chapter.
   (D)   Monitoring lot splits. The township recognizes that proper
administration of the “sliding scale” concept is important in meeting the
intent of this chapter. The following procedures have been established to help
ensure proper monitoring of lot splits.
      (1)   Concurrent with the adoption of this section of this chapter, an
official map indicating existing lots of record, parcel numbers and land
ownership shall be established along with an official register containing this
information.
      (2)   An allotment of non-agricultural dwelling units possible under this
chapter shall be made for each parcel in the Ag-1 Zoning District.
      (3)   As allotments are used up, the official map and register shall be
updated to reflect these changes.
      (4)   The official map and register shall be maintained by the Township
Clerk and copies made available for inspection by the public.
   (E)   Preexisting lots of record; non-agricultural dwellings.
      (1)   A new non-agricultural dwelling shall be permitted on a lot of
record that:
         (a)   Existed as of 8-8-2000 is more than one acre and less than ten
acres in size;
         (b)   Is not under common ownership with a contiguous lot that would
create a lot of at least ten acres in size if the two lots were combined; and
         (c)   Complies with §
154.273 of this chapter.
      (2)   Except for a non-agricultural dwelling on a lot of record described
in division (E)(1) above, a new non-agricultural dwelling shall not be
permitted on any lot other than a new lot created for such purpose by a lot
split permitted under division (A) above.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (E) shall apply notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Variation of maximum or minimum lot size - special use.
      (1)   Although in the Ag-1 Zoning District, the minimum lot size
requirement for a farm or agricultural enterprise is generally 40 acres (§
154.273 of this chapter), and the maximum lot size for a non-agricultural
dwelling unit is two acres (pursuant to this section and §
154.273 of this chapter), certain unusual circumstances may arise that, with
special use approval, could merit and justify the creation of a parcel for farm
or agricultural uses under 40 acres or the creation of a new lot for a non-
agricultural dwelling unit over two acres in size.
      (2)   If approved as a special use, the Planning Commission may authorize
the creation of a new parcel under 40 acres in size for farm/agricultural uses
or a parcel larger than two acres in size for a non-agricultural dwelling unit
subject to the following conditions and requirements.
         (a)   For a lot of record, only one parcel under 40 acres in size can
be approved as a special use for farm/agricultural use or one parcel over two
acres in size can be approved for a non-agricultural dwelling unit. If that
occurs, all other lots or parcels created from that lot of record shall fully
comply with the minimum lot size requirements of §
154.273 of this chapter and any other ordinance requirements. No special use
approval shall be granted by the Planning Commission if any other lot or parcel
has already been split or divided off of the lot of record involved (since 8-8-
2000).
         (b)   As a condition of approval of any such special use, all
remaining permitted lot splits or land divisions for new non-agricultural
dwelling units specified in division (E) above shall be extinguished and a
permanent deed restriction may be placed on the property or properties involved
to effectuate the extinguishment of such land division or split rights. Such
deed restrictions shall be prepared at the expense of the applicant, be in a
form and have language as approved by the Township Supervisor (or such other
township official as may be designated by the Township Board), shall be signed
and properly executed by all of the then-owners of the property involved, and
shall be recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds’ records. No such split
or land division shall occur until proof that such deed restriction has been
recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds’ records has been provided to the
township.
         (c)   In addition to the general standards for a special use contained
in §
154.186 of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall also find that the
following standards are also met before approving a special use hereunder:
            1.   The granting of such special use will not have an adverse
impact upon remaining or adjoining agricultural properties or uses;
            2.   The non-agricultural dwelling and driveway shall be located so
as to minimize or avoid conflicts between the residents of the proposed
dwelling and nearby farmland and to have the least impact on the ability to
farm the adjacent land taking into account odors, pesticide and fertilizer
application noise from farm equipment operation and other activities normally
associated with farming;
            3.   To the extent possible, the non-agricultural dwelling unit
shall be located on land that is difficult or unlikely to be used for
agricultural production due to soil types, poor drainage, wetlands, topography,
woods or similar conditions;
            4.   The lot and driveway shall not have the effect of dividing the
parent parcel land (original lot of record) into such isolated or small areas
that these areas cannot feasibly be used for farming; and
            5.   Access to any agricultural use or property from the original
lot of record shall not be impeded or obstructed.
      (3)   The proposal will not be contrary to the agricultural preservation
goals for the Ag-1 Zoning District, pursuant to §
154.022 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.3; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.208 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations, as defined in this chapter, are permitted as an accessory
use as provided in §
154.247 of this chapter; provided that, all of the following regulations shall
control.
   (A)   No other than members of the family residing in the dwelling shall be
engaged in connection with such home occupation at the same time.
   (B)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants
and not more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be used in
the conduct of the home occupation.
   (C)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building, no
variation from the residential character of the dwelling, and no visible
evidence of the conduct of such home occupation other than one sign, not
exceeding two square feet in area, non-illuminated and mounted flat against the
wall of the main building.
   (D)   No home occupation shall be conducted outdoors or in any accessory
building.
   (E)   There shall be no sale of products or services, except as are produced
on the premises by such home occupation.
   (F)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
   (G)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the premises if the occupation is conducted
in a single-family dwelling. If conducted in other than a single-family
dwelling, such nuisance shall not be detectable outside the dwelling unit. In
the case of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used that
creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers off
the premises or cause fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   (H)   In particular, a home occupation can be, but is not limited to: art
studio; dressmaking; teacher, with musical or dancing instruction limited to
four to six pupils at a time; contractor's office; professional office or
studio or a physician, dentist, author, artist, musician, lawyer, engineer,
architect, community planner, realtor, accountant, one-chair salon or similar
use; but shall not include animal hospital, automotive repair service,
restaurant, tearoom, tavern or similar use.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.4; Ord. 24-1, passed 6-13-2024, § 1) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.209 MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
   (A)   A registered primary caregiver, as defined by and in compliance with
the general rules of the state’s Department of Community Health, Michigan
Administrative Code, R 333.201 through R 333.203 (the “general rules”), the
state’s Medical Marijuana Act, PA 2008, Initiated Law 1, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq. (the “Act”), and the requirements of this section, shall be
allowed as a home occupation.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this section, or, in any companion regulatory section
adopted in any other provision of this chapter, is intended to grant, nor shall
they be construed as granting immunity from prosecution for growing, selling,
consuming, using, distributing or possession of marijuana where otherwise
prohibited by law.
      (2)   Since federal law is not affected by the Act or the general rules,
nothing in this section or in any other provision of this chapter, is intended
to grant, nor shall they be construed as granting immunity from criminal
prosecution under federal law. The Act does not protect users, caregivers or
the owners of properties on which medical use of marijuana is occurring from
federal prosecution or from having property seized by federal authorities under
the Federal Controlled Substances Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 801 et seq. or other
applicable law.
   (C)   In addition to the regulations for all home occupations contained in
this chapter, the following additional requirements for a registered primary
caregiver shall also apply.
      (1)   The medical use of marijuana shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the state’s Medical Marijuana Act and the general rules of
the state’s Department of Community Health, as they may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Not more than one primary caregiver per dwelling unit shall be
permitted. The dwelling unit shall be the principal residence of the primary
caregiver.
      (3)   Medical marijuana shall be delivered to the qualifying patient
where the qualifying patient resides. Pick up of medical marijuana from the
primary caregiver’s dwelling is prohibited. Transactions relating to
compensation of costs associated with assisting a qualifying patient are
prohibited from occurring at the primary caregiver’s dwelling.
      (4)   All medical marijuana shall be grown and contained within the
dwelling unit, and such uses shall occur within the dwelling in an enclosed,
locked facility inaccessible on three sides and equipped with locks or other
security devices that permit access only by the registered primary caregiver or
qualifying patient, as reviewed and approved by the township’s Building
Official.
      (5)   A registered primary caregiver shall not display a sign associated
with the home occupation.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.6) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.210 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   A research and development facility is allowed if approved as a
special use.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall require the following design standards:
      (1)   The parcel of property for the proposed use is at least five acres
in size;
      (2)   The ratio of total floor space counting all floors of all buildings
to land area shall not exceed one-to-ten, but total floor area shall not exceed
100,000 square feet and floor area in any one building shall not exceed 200,000
square feet, but these requirements shall not apply to lawfully existing
buildings as of the time of adoption of this chapter that are authorized for
purposes allowed by this section, save the maximum limitation;
      (3)   All buildings shall be designed in such a way that they
architecturally resemble farm type buildings, if located in the Ag-2 Zoning
District;
      (4)   All parking and loading docks shall be within enclosed building(s)
or placed or screened with trees, shrubbery or buildings such that cars or
trucks parked there cannot be seen from any adjoining property or street;
      (5)   All activities shall be conducted within enclosed buildings;
      (6)   Property must be maintained, sprayed and traps placed such as to
prevent any adverse effect upon surrounding agricultural property from any type
of insect or disease;
      (7)   No noise, odor, gas, dust, vibration, glare, smoke or other
substance of any degree shall emanate beyond the property lines of the lot upon
which it is located;
      (8)   There will be no adverse effect upon property values to adjacent
properties;
      (9)   There shall be a maximum of eight full-time employees at any one
time per acre;
      (10)   All new utilities shall be placed underground;
      (11)   On-site signs must comply with the applicable sign regulations of
this chapter; and
      (12)   Once approval is granted as provided herein, the research and
development facility cannot be changed or used in any manner than would be
contrary to any conditions made as part of the special use permit approval, nor
contrary to the approved site plan.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.7)
§ 154.211 SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   Sanitary landfills may be approved as a special use, but only when it is
established that:
   (A)   There are no existing residential structures within 660 feet of the
proposed landfill;
   (B)   The area in which the hazardous material is located must be completely
surrounded by a six-foot high fence with a 12-inch barb wire barrier on the top
and must be equipped with gates that can be locked;
   (C)   There must be layer of clay of a minimal thickness of five feet
designed in such a way that all hazardous or liquid material are unable to
escape beyond this barrier into surrounding ground. This barrier must also be
of a bowl type design with sides of the thickness herein stated completely
surrounding the hazardous material and/or liquid material mass on all sides.
The liquid material and/or hazardous material mass may not be closer to the
original ground level as existing prior to the construction of landfill than
four feet. Said barrier shall be of such a low permeability so as to maintain
integrity of the barrier for 500 years;
   (D)   Two test wells shall be drilled within 75 feet of area used directly
for the placement of hazardous and liquid wastes; and shall be monitored and
tested monthly for purity and copies of those tests shall be filed with the
Township Clerk within 30 days of taking the samples. The monitoring and testing
of these wells and filing of tests shall continue even after the site is no
longer used; and
   (E)   The hazardous or liquid materials are not placed within 500 feet of
any natural or artificial body of water or wetlands. (See §§
93.20 and
93.21 of this code of ordinances, as amended.)
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.8) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.212 ANIMAL KENNELS.
   Kennels, as defined by §
154.006 of this chapter, must comply with all of the following.
   (A)   All kennels shall be operated in conformance with all applicable
state, county and local township regulations.
   (B)   All kennels must be inspected and approved by the county's Director of
Animal Control (or successor agency) or his or her agents on an annual basis.
   (C)   Minimum lot size shall be two acres for the first four animals and
one-third additional acre for each additional animal.
   (D)   Structures wherein animals are kept and exercise areas shall not be
located within 100 feet of any occupied dwellings or any public buildings and
shall not be located in any required yard setback.
   (E)   If dog kennel runs are made of concrete, they must provide adequate
draining for sanitation. If sand or pea gravel is used, droppings must be
picked up and disposed of promptly and the runs treated regularly with an
effective disinfectant. Runs made of other materials require special approval
from the Director of Animal Control.
   (F)   Such facilities shall also be subject to other conditions and
requirements as may be deemed necessary by the state, county or township in
order to ensure nuisance abatement (such as fencing, landscaping, screening,
sanitary precautions and the like).
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.9; Ord. 24-4, passed 9-12-2024, § 7) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.213 ANIMAL HOSPITALS.
   (A)   The front yard setback for any principal or accessory structure shall
be 75 feet from the front lot line. All other yard setbacks shall be at least
50 feet.
   (B)   All principal uses shall be conducted within a totally enclosed
building.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.214 DISPOSAL SITES FOR HAZARDOUS AND LIQUID MATERIALS.
   Wherever proposed, a special use approval is required; however, no hazardous
or liquid materials shall be placed or allowed to be placed within a disposal
site or sanitary landfill by any individual(s), corporation, partnership,
municipal corporation or other entity unless the provisions of §§
93.20 and
93.21 of this code of ordinances are met and also the following requirements
are met.
   (A)   There are no existing residential structures within 660 feet of the
storage or disposal site.
   (B)   There is a uniform two to one by volume mix of sand to hazardous or
liquid material prior to cover and the mix must be completed the same day the
liquid or hazardous material is received.
   (C)   One hour before sundown each day, the hazardous or liquid material
shall be covered with a four-inch dirt cover. Said cover must remain intact,
and may not be used for later mix or any other purpose.
   (D)   The area in which the hazardous material is located must be completely
surrounded by a six-foot high fence with a 12-inch barb wire barrier on the top
and must be equipped with gates that can be locked.
   (E)   Hazardous or liquid materials may only be received at a sanitary
landfill between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
   (F)   The gate to the area designated for liquid or hazardous wastes shall
be locked at all times when the area is not open to receive such materials.
   (G)   The area in which the liquid or hazardous material is placed shall
have watchmen or supervisors present 24 hours a day and shall be within said
fenced area at all times and shall directly supervise the dumping of all such
materials.
   (H)   There must be a layer of clay of a minimal thickness of five feet
designed in such a way that all hazardous or liquid material are unable to
escape beyond this barrier into surrounding ground. This barrier must also be
of a bowl type design with sides of the thickness herein stated completely
surrounding the hazardous material or liquid material mass on all sides. The
liquid material and/or hazardous material mass may not be closer to the
original ground level as existing prior to the construction of landfill than
four feet. Said barrier shall be of such a low permeability so as to maintain
integrity of the barrier for 500 years.
   (I)   There must be a PVC liner of 20 mil thickness between the barrier
above provided for and the hazardous or liquid wastes.
   (J)   There must be a separation of at least 12 feet from the liquid or
hazardous material mass and the highest point the water table has been within
the last 50 years.
   (K)   (1)   Two test wells shall be drilled within 75 feet of area used
directly for the placement of hazardous and liquid wastes, and shall be
monitored and tested monthly for purity and copies of those tests shall be
filed with the Township Clerk within 30 days of taking the samples.
      (2)   The monitoring and testing of these wells and filing of tests shall
continue even after the site is no longer used.
   (L)   When the area is no longer used for the disposal of liquid and
hazardous materials, the area must be covered with at least four feet of cover
and must be graded and planted with grass and must be in such a state as to be
walked on without any sinking and usable for at least recreational activities.
   (M)   The hazardous or liquid materials shall not be placed or stored within
500 feet of any natural or artificial body of water or wetlands.
   (N)   Samples of all liquid or hazardous wastes shall be obtained before
disposal and kept and their origin, date of receipt by landfill, quantity, pH
level and chemical composition shall be disclosed along with the name of the
material and this information shall be recorded and be compiled each month and
a copy filed with the Clerk of the township.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.11) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.215 AIRFIELDS OR LANDING STRIPS.
   (A)   An AIRCRAFT shall be defined as PERMANENTLY BASED at an airfield when
it is continuously operated out of and based on such an airfield or landing
strip for more than 45 continuous days, or when it is based at said airfield or
landing strip for more than 90 days in any 12-month period. An aircraft that is
inoperable or not currently licensed as airworthy, as that term is defined
under the Federal Aviation Regulations, shall not be deemed permanently based,
even if it is at said airfield or landing strip for more than 45 days
continuous or 90 days in any 12-month period. Airfields or landing strips shall
only be allowed within agricultural districts. All airfield or aircraft landing
strips, at which there are permanently based aircrafts belonging to more than
three different owners shall be allowed as a special use only after a report by
the Planning Commission as to its effect on existing or future development in
the zoning district.
   (B)   Prior to approval, the Planning Commission must determine that:
      (1)   Such use will not adversely affect existing or future development
of the district;
      (2)   The take-off and landing pattern within 200 feet of the end of the
runway does not pass over an occupied structure;
      (3)   The landing strip and areas upon which airplanes taxi are at least
50 feet from any property line;
      (4)   The safety of the citizens of the township is not adversely
affected;
      (5)   The airport must be of such size, with the runways so located, that
the operation thereof, in accordance with the standards and requirements of the
Federal Aviation Administration, will not require limitation of the heights of
structures on adjacent land to less than the height limit specifically
prescribed for the district in which such land is situated; and
      (6)   Every land area used by any aircraft under its own power shall be
provided with a dustless surface.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.12) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.216 FARM LABOR HOUSING.
   Farm labor housing is allowed as either a primary or accessory use in the
agricultural zoning districts (Ag-1 and Ag-2). A special use approval is
required, except as provided in division (H) hereof. In addition to §
154.186 of this chapter, the following specific standards, requirements and
conditions shall also apply:
   (A)   Farm labor housing is required to comply with the Michigan Public
Health Code being Act 368 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978, as amended,
including any rules promulgated pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Occupants of the farm labor housing must be employed for farm or
agricultural labor. Members of a qualifying occupant's immediate family may
also reside in the farm labor housing with the working occupant even if those
family members are not employed for farm or agricultural labor.
   (C)   Mobile homes may be used to provide such housing, but must meet the
size limitations of the state and as provided in division (G) hereof. There
shall be no more than five mobile homes per lot.
   (D)   Farm labor housing shall not be placed within 100 feet of a property
line not adjacent to a public street and must be at least 75 feet from the
public street right-of-way on which the property fronts. These limitations as
to distance from a property line shall not apply to an area presently and
lawfully used for farm labor housing at the adoption of this section, but in no
case will an existing area used for farm labor housing be allowed to expand
closer to any property line, which is within 100 feet.
   (E)   Farm labor housing may be permitted on a lot which contains a minimum
of five acres and which complies with all other requirements of this section.
For a principal use, such lot shall be adjacent to a lot being actively farmed
and both lots shall be under the same or substantially similar ownership.
   (F)   Farm labor housing (and occupancy) shall not exceed 100 persons per
lot.
   (G)   Minimum dwelling size requirements and density for farm labor
dwellings shall fully comply with State of Michigan laws and requirements.
   (H)   Farm labor housing which is lawfully in existence as of the date that
this section was added to the zoning code may be expanded without special use
approval by up to 50% of lawful occupancy every ten years. Any new or expanded
farm labor housing beyond that requires special use approval.
   (I)   The side yard setback for a farm labor dwelling may be reduced to ten
feet where both the lot where the farm housing is located and the adjoining lot
are owned by the same person or entity and the lots are lawfully combined.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.13; Ord. 2021-1, passed 7-8-2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.217 HOTELS, MOTELS AND MOTOR COURTS.
   (A)   Public access to the principal business shall be located so as not to
conflict with access to adjacent uses or not adversely affect traffic flow on
adjacent streets. Only one exit to the major thoroughfare shall be permitted.
   (B)   Where the front yard is used to provide access, a 25-foot wide
greenbelt shall be provided and maintained along the front property line,
except for driveway openings.
   (C)   Each unit of commercial occupancy shall contain a minimum of 250
square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Where adjacent to a residential zoning district, refer to §
154.264 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.14) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.218 BOWLING ALLEYS, INDOOR COMMERCIAL RECREATION AND SIMILAR USES.
   (A)   Public access to the site shall be located at least 75 feet from any
intersection (as measured from the intersection of right-of-way lines to the
edge of said access).
   (B)   The main and accessory buildings shall be located a minimum of 100
feet from any residential use.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.15) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.219 OPEN-AIR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre.
   (B)   Minimum lot width shall be 200 feet.
   (C)   Except in any agricultural zoning district, a five-foot fence or wall
shall be constructed along the rear and sides of the lot, capable of keeping
trash, paper and other debris from blowing off the premises, except as provided
otherwise in this chapter.
   (D)   An open air business shall comply with all applicable Health
Department regulations regarding sanitation and general health conditions.
   (E)   Unless specifically waived by the Planning Commission, a building of
not less than 500 square feet of gross floor area shall be constructed on the
premises for the office use in connection with the subject open air business.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may, to insure strict compliance with any
regulations contained herein and required as a condition of the issuance of a
permit for an open air business use, require the permittee to furnish a surety
bond executed by a reputable surety company authorized as to do business in the
state, or in the sole discretion of the Planning Commission, a cash bond or
letter of credit, in an amount determined by the Planning Commission hereunder.
In fixing the amount of such security, the Planning Commission shall take into
account the size and scope of the proposed open air business use, current
prevailing cost of rehabilitating the premises upon default of the operator of
the use, estimated expenses to compel the operator to comply by court decree
and such other factors and conditions, as might be relevant in determining the
sum reasonable in the light of all facts and circumstances surrounding each
application.
   (G)   In addition to the above, for indoor-outdoor garden nurseries:
      (1)   The storage or materials display areas shall meet all the yard
setback requirements applicable to any building in the zoning district;
      (2)   All loading activities and parking areas shall be provided on the
same premises (off-street); and
      (3)   The storage of any soil, fertilizer or similar loosely packaged
materials shall be sufficiently contained to prevent any adverse effect upon
adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.16) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.220 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS (FILLING STATIONS).
   (A)   A special use approval is required.
   (B)   (1)   All permanent storage of material, merchandise and equipment
other than liquid fuel shall be within the building.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not be permitted.
      (3)   All lubrication, repair and servicing equipment shall be within the
building.
      (4)   All repair work shall be done within the building.
      (5)   The storage of automobiles for a period in excess of 24 hours,
unless the vehicle is enclosed within the building, is prohibited.
      (6)   The premises shall not be used for the sale of used or new
vehicles.
   (C)   (1)   No service station shall be erected within 25 feet of any
residential area or dwelling. For screening, refer to §
154.265 of this chapter.
      (2)   Curb cuts shall not exceed 30 feet at the property line.
      (3)   Exterior lighting shall be so arranged as to reflect away from
every adjacent property. There shall be no flashing or revolving lights.
      (4)   The minimum public road frontage shall be 140 feet and the minimum
lot area shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (5)   The building shall be set back a minimum of 40 feet from every
property line, and not less than 25 feet from any side or rear lot line
adjoining a residentially zoned district.
      (6)   Driveways shall be a minimum of 20 feet from street intersections;
said distance to be measured from the point of intersection of intersecting
street rights-of-way. No driveway shall be located nearer than 20 feet to any
residential property and shall be a minimum of ten feet from any abutting
properties.
      (7)   Pump islands shall be located a minimum of 15 feet from any
property line or public right-of-way.
      (8)   Driveways, service areas and parking areas shall be provided with
pavement having an asphaltic or cement binder so as to provide a permanent,
durable and dustless surface and shall be so graded and drained as to dispose
of all surface water accumulated within the area.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.17) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.221 CAR WASH ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   All washing activities must be carried on within a building.
   (C)   Vacuuming activities may be carried out only in the rear yard and at
least 50 feet from any adjoining residential use.
   (D)   The entrances and exits of the facility shall be from within the lot
and not directly to or from an adjoining street or alley. An alley shall not be
used as maneuvering or parking space for vehicles being serviced by the subject
facility.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.18) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.222 CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOMES FOR SEVEN OR MORE PERSONS.
   All provisions of the zoning district in which the use is allowed shall be
met. In addition, the following minimum requirement must also be met. Where the
following specific requirements impose greater restrictions upon the height of
buildings, require greater lot areas, yards, floor areas, lot widths or parking
ratios than are generally required in the respective zoning district, the
provisions of this section shall control.
   (A)   Height. No building shall exceed a maximum of two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height, whichever is less.
   (B)   Front yards. No building shall be located closer than 35 feet to any
street right-of-way.
   (C)   Side yard. No building shall be closer to any side lot line than 25
feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of at least 40 feet.
   (E)   Floor area. There shall be a minimum usable floor area of at least 250
square feet per patient.
   (F)   Lot area. There shall be a minimum lot area of 2,000 square feet for
each patient and employee; provided, however, that, no lot shall contain less
than 10,000 square feet.
   (G)   Lot width. No lot shall be less than 130 feet in width.
   (H)   Parking. See §§
154.247 and
154.260 of this chapter.
   (I)   Screened. Each care facility shall be adequately screened from
adjacent properties by a fence or planted strip so as not to be a detrimental
influence upon the surrounding area.
   (J)   Sufficient size. All care facilities shall contain a basement
sufficient in size to accommodate all residents and employees during periods of
high winds or tornados.
   (K)   Approved site development plan. An approved site development plan
shall be required.
   (L)   Residing in basement. No resident of any care facility shall be housed
in a basement.
   (M)   Inspections. Facilities shall be inspected by the Fire Chief, who
shall furnish a report concerning his or her findings.
   (N)   Density. No care facility shall be located within 1,500 feet of
another care facility.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.19) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.223 GOLF COURSES AND COUNTRY CLUBS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be 40 acres.
   (B)   A shelter building with toilet facilities shall be provided that meets
all requirements of the county’s Health Department.
   (C)   The main and accessory buildings shall be set back at least 75 feet
from all property lines.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.20) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.224 CAMPGROUNDS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size shall be three acres. The lot shall provide direct
vehicular access to a public street or road. The term lot shall mean a
campground or recreation vehicle park.
   (B)   Each site on a lot designated for camping use may accommodate a
recreation vehicle or tent and shall be provided with individual electrical
outlets and with individual bar-b-que facilities.
   (C)   Public stations, housed in all-weather structures, containing adequate
water outlet, toilet, waste container and shower facilities shall be provided
uniformly throughout the lot at a ratio of not less than one such station per
each 20 sites.
   (D)   Each lot containing more than 60 sites shall provide a masonry
building containing machine laundry (wash and dry) facilities.
   (E)   No commercial enterprises shall be permitted to operate on the lot;
except that, a convenience goods shopping building may be provided on a lot
containing more than 80 sites.
   (F)   Each lot shall provide a hard surface, dust-free vehicle parking area
for site occupant and guest parking. Such parking area shall be located within
400 feet of the site it is intended to serve (except in the case of sites
specifically designated only for tent camping), each parking space shall be 200
square feet in area and parking spaces for two vehicles shall be provided on
each site.
   (G)   Each site shall contain a minimum of 1,500 square feet, except that
the minimum size for sites specifically designated for tents shall be 3,000
square feet. Each site shall be set back from any public right-of-way or
property line at least 75 feet, and from any private street at least 40 feet.
   (H)   A common use area shall be provided on each lot at a ratio of not less
than 1,000 square feet of such area per each site. This common area shall be
developed by seeding, landscaping, picnic tables, bar-b-que stands and passive
recreation equipment (such as, swings, horseshoe pits, shuffleboard courts and
the like) for the general use of all occupants of the entire lot.
   (I)   Each recreation vehicle site shall have direct access to a hard
surfaced, dust free roadway of at least 24 feet in width for two-way traffic
and 12 feet in width for one-way traffic. Parking shall not be allowed on any
roadway. Public streets shall be paved with asphaltic concrete. Sites
specifically designated and used for tent camping, need not have direct
vehicular access to any street or road but shall be provided with adequately
cleared and marked pedestrian pathway access that originates at a point on a
street or road within 200 feet of the parking area mentioned above.
   (J)   Any open drainageways must have seeded banks sloped at least three-to-
one and designed to properly drain all surface waters into the county drain
system, subject to approval by the county’s Drain Commissioner.
   (K)   All sanitary facilities shall be designed and constructed in strict
conformance to all applicable county health regulations.
   (L)   The development of the entire lot is subject to all applicable
requirements of the Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   A minimum distance of 15 feet shall be provided between all
recreational vehicles and tents.
   (N)   Fences and greenbelts shall be required by the Planning Commission.
The location of common use areas, roadways, streets and buildings shall be
subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.21) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.225 JUNKYARDS.
   (A)   A special use approval is required. In addition, the following more
restrictive provisions shall take control above all other local provisions
relating to setbacks, screening and the like. Furthermore, all junkyards and
facilities shall be established and maintained in accordance with all
applicable state of state statutes. If any of the following requirements are in
conflict or at variance with applicable state statutes, the more restrictive or
higher standard shall control.
   (B)   (1)   The site shall be a minimum of five acres.
      (2)   Minimum required setback from any public street or road and any
exterior lot line shall be 100 feet.
      (3)   The front yard shall be planted with evergreens and shrubs to
minimize the appearance.
      (4)   A solid fence or wall at least eight feet in height must be located
along the setback lines of the entire junkyard site in order to screen the use
from all abutting public streets or roads and from all adjacent properties.
      (5)   All activities shall be confined within the fenced in area. There
shall be no stocking of material above the height of the fence or wall; except
that, movable equipment used on the site may exceed the wall or fence height.
No equipment material, signs or lighting shall be used or stored outside the
fencing area.
      (6)   No open burning shall be permitted and all industrial processes
involving the use of equipment of cutting, compressing or packaging shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed building.
      (7)   Wherever the side or rear lot line of such use abuts a residential
use or a residential zoning district, refer to §
154.264 of this chapter.
      (8)   The site shall not be located within 500 feet of an existing
residence or any residential district.
      (9)   For removal or storage of liquids, see §
154.226 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.22) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.226 REMOVAL AND STORAGE OF LIQUIDS.
   (A)   All vehicles that are brought into a junkyard as defined herein shall
within 48 hours of having been brought onto the premises be inspected. The
inspection shall be to determine if there are any liquids leaking from the
vehicles. If there is any leaking of any liquids, all liquids, including, but
not limited to, antifreeze, water, gasoline and oil shall be removed from any
such vehicles, or the vehicles shall be immediately repaired to permanently
prevent all leakage. In the event any vehicle is brought into a junkyard that
has any damage affecting the engine or drive train, then all such liquids shall
be immediately removed from such vehicle and brought into the premises. Removal
of all such liquids shall be done within a completely enclosed building.
Gasoline may be removed from vehicles outside of an enclosed building in an
area that is designated for such removal. The area must meet all the minimum
yard requirements for a building.
   (B)   The building area designated for removal of gasoline shall have a
concrete, reinforced floor at least four inches thick and shall have concrete
dikes or other similar type structures that will not allow any such liquids
removed from vehicles to escape the building or the area designated for the
removal of gasoline. The concrete floor dikes and other similar structures
shall be maintained and constructed so that any such liquids cannot escape the
building or the area designated for the removal of gasoline into the soil
beneath or adjacent to such building or the area designated for the removal of
gasoline and shall include water stops at joints, floors and dikes. Any water
or any other liquids that go on to the floor shall be removed and disposed of
in accordance with all state and federal statutes and regulations.
   (C)   All such liquids when on the premises shall be stored in leak-proof
tanks that must be constructed and maintained such that the liquid cannot
escape such tanks. All such tanks shall be below the surface of the ground in
cradle in a concrete lined pit.
   (D)   Tanks for the storage of any such liquids shall be located at least
ten feet from any wall or foundation of a building and 50 feet from any
property line. Tanks shall not be located under any building. A distance of at
least five feet shall be maintained between tanks in multiple tank
installations. The concrete floor and walls of the pit in which any such tank
is located shall be at least six inches thick. The concrete floor and walls
shall be constructed and maintained so that any such liquids cannot escape into
the soil beneath or adjacent to the pit and shall include water stops at
joints. Any liquids that go into the floor of the pit shall be removed and
disposed of in accordance with all state and federal statutes and regulations.
   (E)   One foot to four feet under any building used for the removal of such
liquids under any concrete lined pit in which such storage tanks are placed,
and under any area designated for the removal of gasoline, there shall be
installed the following:
      (1)   At least four inches in diameter PVC, concrete or similar material
culvert-type pipe all connected and laid out so that the pipe is immediately
adjacent to the entire foundation of the building or area designated for the
removal of gasoline or concrete lined pit and has lines of such pipe running
parallel to the longest side of the building or area designated for the removal
of gasoline or concrete lined pit every 20 feet or portion thereof of the width
of the building or area designated for the removal of gasoline or concrete
lined pit.
      (2)   All such pipe shall be perforated with one-quarter-inch holes
spread 12 inches apart on two sides of the pipe and installed such that such
holes are not on the top or bottom of the pipe when installed.
      (3)   All such pipe shall be surrounded on all sides by at least nine
inches of one-half inch washed stone or pea gravel.
      (4)   On each side of the building and on at least two sides of the
concrete lined pit or the area designated for the removal of gasoline, the pipe
shall be extended to the surface of the ground and capped flush with the ground
level with a screw-type cap. If the top of the pipe passes through concrete or
asphalt or in an area used for vehicle traffic, it shall be located in a sleeve
(manhole ring) with a cover for protection against vehicular damage and
settlement. The cap to the pipe shall not be located inside any building and
shall be accessible at all times.
      (5)   The pipe shall not be connected to any other pipes and must be
sealed and capped, save for the perforations required herein but may also act
as a footing drain system and be connected to a sump pump.
      (6)   Immediately under the building and tanks, there shall be a layer of
clean sand and/or gravel and immediately thereunder a leak-proof liner made of
a synthetic material of at least 60 mil thickness that will not deteriorate
when placed in contact with such liquids. The liner shall be installed such
that is slopes to any of the pipe herein required and then goes immediately
under the pipe herein required.
      (7)   In the alternative to providing the leak-detection system herein
stated under the tanks, a tank within a tank may be used provided a stand pipe
similar to that required above is installed so as to enable detection of any
leak within the inner tank. In the event any leak is detected in the inner
tank, the tank shall either be repaired or replaced.
      (8)   The township, through the Zoning Administrator or Township
Supervisor, may, at its or their discretion, require that the owner and/or
occupant of the premises used as a junkyard submit to the township during each
calendar year a chemical analysis of the water in the pipes described herein,
which such analysis shall include, but not be limited to, a determination as to
the presence of any oils, gasoline, grease, motor antifreeze and alcohol or
other distillates and petroleum products. The Township Zoning Administrator,
Township Supervisor or other individual designated by the township may at their
discretion take samples of the water in the pipe described herein or of the
tank within a tank at any time to determine if any of the liquids herein
described have escaped into the ground or from the inner tank.
      (9)   Prior to the removal of any such liquids from any vehicles or the
placing of any such liquids in the storage tanks, the owner and/or occupant of
the premises shall have a chemical analysis done of the water in said pipes to
determine a baseline level for such liquids, which shall be filed with the
Township Clerk prior to the use of the buildings or tanks. Failure to do such
chemical analysis shall create a presumption that the level of any such liquids
found at a later date resulted from a leak of the tanks or a failure to
properly contain such liquids as required herein. In the event any such
analysis determines that there is any level of such liquids above the baseline
level or if there was no baseline level determined, then any level whatsoever,
then the township, in its discretion, may require the owner of the subject
property to conduct a hydrogeological study by registered engineers to be
conducted of the subject premises to determine if the ground water is being
contaminated by any such liquids.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.23) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.227 OFFICE DEVELOPMENTS (TWO OR MORE STRUCTURES).
   (A)   A special use and site plan approval by the Planning Commission are
required.
   (B)   In order to facilitate innovative and attractive design of office
uses, office developments shall be subject to the requirements of §§
154.247 and
154.273 of this chapter and the following.
      (1)   Exterior walls of opposite or adjacent buildings shall be located
no closer than one and one- half times the height of the higher building wall,
but in no case closer than 50 feet.
      (2)   Buildings shall be so located and arranged that all structures have
access to emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage upon lot shall not exceed 60%, including
accessory uses and structures (off-street parking and the like).
      (4)   The ratio of total floor area to lot area shall not exceed one.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.24) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.228 SHOPPING CENTER AND DEPARTMENT STORE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   In order to provide for and encourage the development of long-term
grouped retail sales and service establishments at logical and sound locations
within the township, planned shopping centers and department store developments
may be approved by special use (together with site plan approval) by the
Planning Commission in the C-1, General Commercial District.
   (B)   Shopping center and department store developments are hereby defined
as a retail commercial establishment, or group of retail commercial
establishments, with a total gross sales floor area of 70,000 square feet or
more, and which is planned, developed, owned and managed as a unit, with off-
street parking provided on the property, and related in its location, size and
type of shops to the trade area to which the unit serves.
   (C)   Shopping center developments are subject to the requirements of §§
154.247 and
154.273 of this chapter and the following must also be met.
      (1)   (a)   The applicant shall furnish a statement of economic
justification and need for the establishment of a development of the type and
size proposed by the applicant; to be submitted in a market analysis report by
recognized, reputable market analyst. The statement and report shall be based
upon, but not limited to, such factors as the trade area of the community,
travel time from various parts thereof to the proposed site, general
development trends, economic trends and disposable income characteristics of
the area, anticipated sales volume to be captured, impact upon existing
competing commercial facilities and other data and analysis related to the need
for and feasible success and stability of the proposed center.
         (b)   This requirement is intended to protect the township and area
merchants from the untimely and over-development of retail sales and service
establishments that could prove highly injurious to the community welfare.
      (2)   A traffic study and analysis prepared by qualified experts
indicating the circulation impact of the proposed development on adjacent
streets and roads shall accompany the required site plan.
      (3)   Interior circulation and parking layout shall be shown on the site
plan, along with the locations of traffic safety signs and accessory lighting
structures.
      (4)   Architectural profiles of the development showing ground level
perspectives, scale and massing from all road frontage shall be submitted.
      (5)   Proposed site shall derive access from a major thoroughfare only.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage upon lot shall not exceed 70%, including
accessory uses and structures, buildings and off-street parking and loading.
      (7)   The ratio of total floor area to lot area shall not exceed point
three zero.
      (8)   A performance guarantee is required.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.25) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.229 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL PARKS.
   (A)   In order to facilitate the growth of employment and to ensure a viable
tax base for the township and to prevent the conflicts of incompatible
industrial uses, planned industrial parks require special use and site plan
approval by the Planning Commission in the I-1 and I-2 Districts.
   (B)   An INDUSTRIAL PARK is hereby defined as a tract of land laid out in
accordance with an overall plan that is designed and equipped to accommodate a
cluster of wholesale commercial and industrial activities, providing them with
all necessary facilities and services in an attractive, park-like surrounding.
   (C)   Planned industrial parks shall be subject to the requirements of §§
154.247 and
154.273 of this chapter and the following.
      (1)   In addition to a required site plan, all proposed planned
industrial parks (public and private) shall first have an overall plan
detailing the development concept, the spatial arrangement of site and
structures and phased implementation and development, thereof.
      (2)   Exterior walls of adjacent buildings shall be located no closer
than one and one-half times the height of the higher building wall, but in no
case closer than 50 feet.
      (3)   The regulations of §
154.230 of this chapter shall be observed.
      (4)   The floor area of any one building shall not exceed 45,000 square
feet.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 70%, including buildings,
structures, accessory uses and off-street parking and loading.
      (6)   The ratio of total floor area to lot area shall not exceed one.
      (7)   A performance guarantee is required.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.26) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.230 INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (RESTRICTIONS ON THE CREATION OF
DANGEROUS AND OBJECTIONABLE ELEMENTS).
   It shall be unlawful to carry on or permit any activity or operation or use
of land, building or equipment within the I-1, I-2, C-1 and C-2 Districts that
produces irritants to the sensory perceptions greater than the measures herein
established that are hereby determined to be the maximum permissible hazards to
humans or human activities.
   (A)   Sound. The emission of measurable noises from the premises shall not
exceed 65 decibels as measured at the boundary property lines; except that,
where normal street traffic noises exceed such level, the measurable noise
emanating from the premises may equal, but not exceed such traffic noise.
Within industrial districts, sound levels not exceeding 70 decibels may be
permitted. In addition, objectionable sounds of any intermittent nature, or
characterized by high frequencies even if falling below the aforementioned
decibel reading shall be controlled so as not to create a nuisance or hazard to
adjacent properties. Above decibel rates shall refer to the commonly called A-
scale.
   (B)   Vibration. All machinery shall be so mounted and operated as to
prevent transmission of ground vibration exceeding a displacement of three-
thousandths of one inch measured at any lot line of its source.
   (C)   Odor. The emission of noxious, odorous matter in such quantities as to
be readily detectable at any point along lot lines, when diluted in the ratio
of one volume of odorous air to four or more volumes of clear air or as to
produce a public nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines, is prohibited.
   (D)   Toxic gases. The escape of, or emission of any gas that is injurious
or destructive or explosive shall be unlawful and may be summarily caused to be
abated.
   (E)   Glare and heat. Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within an enclosure so as to completely obscure and shield such
operation from direct view from any point along the lot line, except during the
period of construction of the facilities to be used and occupied.
   (F)   Light. All lighting shall be arranged to reflect light away from
adjoining residential zones or uses.
   (G)   Radioactive materials. Radioactive materials shall not be emitted so
as to be unsafe to human health or life.
   (H)   Electromagnetic radiation. The rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission, as amended with respect to the propagation and
dissemination of electromagnetic radiation must be followed and are hereby made
a part of this chapter.
   (I)   Drifted and blown material. The drifting or airborne transmission
beyond the lot line of soot, particles or debris from any stockpile shall be
unlawful and may be summarily caused to be abated.
   (J)   Smoke, dust, dirt and fly ash.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into the atmosphere from any
single source of emission whatsoever any air contaminator for a period or
periods aggregating more than two minutes in any one-half hour that is:
         (a)   As dark or darker in shade as that designated as No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart as published by the United States Bureau of Mines and that is
hereby made a part of this chapter. The Umbrascope readings of smoke densities,
however, may be used when correlated with the Ringelmann Chart; and
         (b)   Of such opacity as to obscure an observer’s view to a degree
equal to or greater than the smoke described in division (J)(1)(a) above,
except when the emission consists of only water vapor.
      (2)   The quantity of gas-borne or air-borne solids shall not exceed two-
tenths grains per cubic foot of the carrying medium at a temperature of 500°F.
   (K)   Liquid wastes. No discharge shall be permitted at any point into any
private sewage disposal system, or street, or into the ground of any materials
in such a way or of such nature or temperature as can contaminate any water
supply or otherwise cause the emission of dangerous or objectionable elements,
except when in accord with water quality standards of the state’s Water
Resources Commission, adopted by state legislature and administered by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources; and with the standards of such other
state commissions having jurisdiction thereof.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.27) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.231 SPECIAL EVENTS IN AG-1 AND AG-2 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A special use permit is required in accordance with the requirements
of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter.
   (B)   The parcel on which the event is to take place shall contain a minimum
of ten acres with a minimum of 200 feet of lot width.
   (C)   The parcel shall contain an occupied single-family dwelling.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit the following to the township as part of
the application:
      (1)   A written description of:
         (a)   The types of events to be held;
         (b)   The frequency of events;
         (c)   Hours of operation;
         (d)   Provision for restroom facilities;
         (e)   Security and traffic control measures;
         (f)   Tents or other shelters to be erected;
         (g)   Sound system; and
         (h)   Other operational characteristics of the event.
      (2)   Ten copies of an accurate drawing shall be submitted illustrating
the location of the parcel within the township, lot lines, setbacks of existing
and proposed buildings, location and dimensions of the parking area, the width
and location of access drives, location of exterior lights, event area, any
tents or canopies to be used, distance to nearest dwelling unit off site and
other relevant features of the site and the use as may be required by the
Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall review the application and site drawing
to confirm that the operation is designed to ensure the safety of users and
that the use will not have a detrimental effect on nearby residents and
property and will meet the special use approval standards of §
154.186 of this chapter as applicable.
   (F)   In approving the use the Commission may attach conditions in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.187 of this chapter including limiting the hours of operation and frequency
of the use in order to protect nearby land uses. Failure to comply with the
conditions of approval may result in the termination of the special use by the
Planning Commission following a public hearing.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 2-12-2015) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.232 MANDATORY PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   Please see §
154.275 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022, § 8.30)
§ 154.233  WINERIES, MICRO-BREWERIES, AND DISTILLERIES.
   (A)   Winery, micro-brewery, and distillery establishments shall primarily
sell products produced on the same premises as the winery, micro-brewery, or
distillery or on land under the control, or permitted to be used by, the person
producing the beverages.
   (B)   Sales of wine by the glass in a tasting room is allowed pursuant to
the minimum requirements of the Michigan Liquor Control Commission rules and
related Michigan Department of Agriculture permits regarding the sales of food
for on-premises consumption. The Liquor Control Commission and the Michigan
Department of Agriculture shall control licenses and compliance.
   (C)   In conjunction with the sale of wine, beer and other spirits produced
on site, the sale of agricultural products grown primarily on the premises on
land under the control of the person selling such products; the sale of
agricultural products may also include the limited, subordinate sale of
agricultural products grown off the premises by the person selling the products
on the premises.
   (D)   Winery, micro-brewery, and distillery tours shall be permitted.
   (E)   The building containing the winery, micro-brewery, or distillery and
other buildings open to the public shall be setback a minimum of 100 feet from
any lot line that abuts a parcel zoned residential or a parcel containing a
residential use. Other setback requirements shall be as set forth for the
applicable principal and accessory uses in the Ag-1 Zone.
   (F)   Any buildings constructed for the winery, micro-brewery, or distillery
that are open to the public shall be subject to the requirements of the
Township Building Code in order to ensure the safety of the public.
   (G)   All parking shall be on site and shall comply with the requirements
for uses selling agricultural products per Column 5 of the Table of Use
Regulations. The required parking areas need not be paved.
   (H)   One ground-mounted sign is permitted, not to exceed 32 square feet in
size and ten feet in height above grade, and shall be setback a minimum of 25
feet from all lot lines. The sign may be lighted, but an electronic reader
board sign is not permitted. All other regulations of §
154.380 shall be applicable.
   (I)   An accurate drawing, illustrating the location of the parcel, lot
lines, setbacks of existing and proposed buildings, location and dimensions of
the parking area, the width and location of access drives, the location of
exterior lights, the floor plan of the processing and retail area, the event
area and other relevant features of the site and the use, shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator, who shall review the drawing and make necessary and
practical recommendations to ensure that the use is designed to ensure the
safety of patrons entering, on, and leaving the site.
   (J)   The applicant shall also provide evidence of compliance with all state
and county health department requirements for wineries, micro-breweries, or
distilleries to the Zoning Administrator before the winery, micro-brewery, or
distillery is open to the public.
(Ord. 23-4, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 154.234 RETAIL GARDEN NURSERIES AND GREENHOUSES IN THE AG-1 ZONING DISTRICT.
   Any retail garden nursery or greenhouse in the Ag-1 Zoning District shall
require special use approval and shall be subject to all of the following
provisions and requirements:
   (A)   Retail garden nurseries and greenhouses in the Ag-1 Zoning District
shall primarily sell products produced on the same premises as the retail
garden nursery or greenhouse, or on land under the direct control of the owner
of the retail garden nursery or greenhouse.
   (B)   Any retail garden nursery or greenhouse authorized shall produce at
least 50% of all of the products sold on the premises. Upon request by the
Zoning Administrator or other designated township official, the owner of the
retail garden nursery or greenhouse shall supply records to the township to
provide proof that at least 50% of all of the products sold at the retail
garden nursery or greenhouse are produced on the same premises as the retail
garden nursery or greenhouse, or on land under the direct control of the owner
of the retail garden nursery or greenhouse.
   (C)   Products allowed to be sold by retail garden nurseries and greenhouses
shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   Products that are grown, including but not limited to, trees,
flowers, and vegetables; and
      (2)   Garden supplies, including but not limited to, hand tools, lawn
ornaments, mulch, and compost.
   (D)   The following items and products are prohibited to be sold by retail
garden nurseries and greenhouses:
      (1)   Motorized equipment, including but not limited to lawn mowers,
woodchippers, and rototillers;
      (2)   Large items, including but not limited to sheds, trailers, and
gazebos;
      (3)   Any items not designed or intended solely for use in gardening; and
      (4)   Any marijuana product.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage shall not exceed six acres, including buildings,
paved or cement areas, structures, accessory uses and off-street parking and
loading.
   (F)   Retail garden nurseries and greenhouses are restricted to operating
hours between (and including) 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday,
and operating hours between (and including) 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (G)   Retail garden nurseries and greenhouses may only operate six out of
seven days per calendar week.
   (H)   Retail garden nurseries and greenhouses are restricted to operating
between (and including) April 1 and October 31.
   (I)   Any retail garden nursery or greenhouse in the Ag-1 Zoning District
shall be located and designed to protect prime agricultural land. When
determining the impact on prime agricultural land, the Planning Commission's
review shall include, but not be limited to, the following characteristics of
the lot involved: soil types, topography, and location on the subject property.
   (J)   Any retail garden nursery or greenhouse in the Ag-1 Zoning District
shall not sell any invasive plants as identified by the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources or its successor organization.
   (K)   All parking shall be on site and shall comply with the requirements
for uses selling agricultural products per Column 5 of
Appendix A: Table of Use Regulations. The required parking areas need not be
paved.
(Ord. 24-6, passed 1-11-2024, § 2)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 154.245 EFFECT OF ZONING.
   (A)   Zoning affects every structure, building and use. Except as
hereinafter specified, no building, structure or lot shall be used or occupied,
and no building or part thereof or other structure shall be erected, moved,
placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, except when in conformity
with the regulations specified in this chapter and for the zoning district in
which it is located.
   (B)   In case any building or part thereof is used, erected, altered or
occupied contrary to law or to the provisions of this chapter, such building
shall be declared a nuisance and may be required to be vacated, torn down or
abated by any legal means and shall not be used or occupied until it has been
brought into conformance.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.1)
§ 154.246 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations of this chapter and within each zoning district shall
be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land.
      (1)   All buildings, structures or land may hereafter be used,
constructed, altered or occupied, only when in conformity with all of the
regulations herein specified for the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be altered:
         (a)   To accommodate or house a greater number of persons or families
than permitted by the zoning district involved; or
         (b)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards or other
side yards, or other than permitted.
   (B)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be subdivided or reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this
chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.2) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.247 SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS; TABLES.
   (A)   (1)   Regulations generally. Regulations affecting the use of
buildings and land, and the bulk arrangement of buildings, materials and
equipment occupying such land for each of the zoning districts are hereby
established as set forth in the following table and in §
154.273 of this chapter.
      (2)   Use table. The table entitled “Table of Use Regulations” below
shall be deemed to be part of this section (and this chapter), and is referred
to herein as the “use table”.
      (3)   Bulk table. The table entitled “Table of General Bulk Regulations”
in §
154.273 of this chapter shall be deemed to be part of this section (and this
chapter), and is referred to herein as the “bulk table”.
      (4)   General regulations. In accordance with other township codes,
ordinances and regulations duly adopted by the Township Board, and in
accordance with this chapter, no building or land use activity shall hereafter
be erected, relocated, altered, moved or expanded in its exterior dimension or
use, and no excavation for any building shall be begun until a zoning permit
has been issued. With respect to this chapter, eligibility for such a permit
shall be established upon conformance with the provisions contained herein.
      (5)   Certificate of occupancy required. No building, dwelling or other
structure, or land platted or unplatted subject to the provisions of this
chapter shall be occupied, inhabited or used until a certificate of occupancy
is issued.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.3)
   (B)   
Appendix A, attached to the ordinance codified herein, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, App. A) (Ord. 15-02, passed 2-12-2015; Ord. 15-03,
passed 2-12-2015)
§ 154.248 RESTORING UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by the
township or the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.4)
§ 154.249 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA FOR DWELLING UNITS.
   As shown in §
154.273 of this chapter, each new dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished
interior floor area in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   Single-family detached. Each new dwelling unit shall have a minimum
total finished floor area of at least 720 square feet. In addition, for units
of more than one story, a minimum of 720 square feet of finished floor area is
required for the first floor. In the event the dwelling unit has less than 960
square feet of finished floor area, the dwelling unit must be so situated on
the lot so as to have sufficient area in its rear and side yards so as to be
able to construct an addition that would bring the finished total floor area up
to at least 960 square feet.
   (B)   Attached single-family, or two-family. Each new dwelling unit shall
have a minimum finished floor area of 720 square feet. In addition, for units
of more than one story, a minimum of 720 square feet of finished floor area is
required for the first floor.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings.
 
For:                    Required Minimum Finished Floor Area/ Unit in Square
                        Feet
Efficiency              375 square feet
1 bedroom               600 square feet
2 bedrooms              800 square feet
3 bedrooms              1,000 square feet
In excess of 3 bedrooms 1,000 square feet + 80 square feet for each additional
                        bedroom
 
   (D)   Sewer utilities. Each dwelling unit and principal structure shall be
equipped with adequate sewage disposal facilities to comply with the county’s
Sanitary Code (or successor code) in effect at the time of the erection or
enlargement of said dwelling or principal structure. Where public utilities
exist within 200 feet of the dwelling, the owner or developer shall be required
to hook up with such system.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.5) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.250 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every principal structure and building hereafter erected or moved shall be
on a lot abutting a public street or private road.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.6) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.251 ERECTION OF MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In all zoning districts, not more than one building housing a
permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot; except that, more than
one building for business, commercial, industrial, agricultural or multi-family
uses may be located on a single lot if the additional buildings are an integral
part of the same business, commercial, industrial, agricultural or multi-family
operation and provided that the use and the buildings otherwise comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Not more than one principal use shall be conducted upon any lot or
parcel of property, and only uses accessory to such principal use shall be
permitted therefor.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.7) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.252 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Accessory buildings and uses shall be subjected to the following
regulations.
   (A)   No accessory building or accessory use shall be erected or conducted
in any front yard unless such accessory building or accessory use is located at
least 300 feet away from the public road or private street upon which the lot
involved is located.
   (B)   No accessory building or accessory use shall be erected or conducted
within five feet of any other building or within ten feet of any property line.
   (C)   No accessory building shall be used for, or occupied as, a dwelling.
   (D)   Every single-family and two-family dwelling may provide one private
garage for use by the occupants of the single- or two-family dwelling. This
private garage may be attached to the dwelling or detached from the dwelling.
The maximum size of such private garage shall not exceed the greater of 816
square feet or 70% of the floor area of the dwelling unit that it serves, but
in no case shall the size of the private garage exceed 1,200 square feet.
   (E)   Every single-family dwelling and two-family dwelling may have not more
than one primary accessory building and one smaller accessory building (noted
below as a shed), in addition to the attached or detached garage permitted
herein, provided that the following requirements are met:
      (1)   Accessory building height, as described below, is a measurement of
side wall height, and is measured from the existing grade to the bearing point
of the roof truss. Total accessory building height, measured from the existing
grade to the peak of the roof, may not exceed 35 feet;
      (2)   On a parcel of property less than two acres in size, accessory
buildings are permitted as follows:
         (a)   One shed, not larger than 120 square feet and not taller than 12
feet in height; and
         (b)   A primary accessory building that shall not exceed the total
area stated as follows, as measured along the exterior walls, nor exceed the
height of 16 feet.
            1.   A parcel one acre in size or smaller - 1,200 square feet;
            2.   A parcel over one acre but two acres or less in size - 1,500
square feet;
      (3)   On a parcel of property at least two acres in size, but less than
five acres in size, accessory buildings are permitted as follows:
         (a)   One shed, not larger than 200 square feet and not taller than 12
feet in height; and
         (b)   A primary accessory building that shall not exceed the total
area stated as follows, as measured along the exterior walls, nor exceed the
height of 16 feet.
            1.   A parcel over two acres but three acres or less in size -
1,800 square feet; and
            2.   A parcel over three acres but less than five acres in size -
2,100 square feet.
      (4)   On a parcel of property at least five acres in size, but less than
ten acres in size, accessory buildings are permitted as follows:
         (a)   One shed, not larger than 240 square feet and not taller than 12
feet in height; and
         (b)   A primary accessory building that shall not exceed 2,400 square
feet in total area, as measured on the exterior walls, nor exceed a height of
16 feet.
      (5)    On any parcel of property ten acres or more in size, three
detached, accessory buildings are permitted as follows:
         (a)   The total square footage of all three accessory buildings shall
not exceed 3,520 square feet. The area shall be measured on the exterior walls
of each building.
         (b)   The maximum size of any single accessory building shall not
exceed 3,200 square feet.
         (c)   The maximum height of an accessory building shall not exceed 16
feet.
         (d)   One of the accessory buildings shall not exceed 320 square feet
in size and 12 feet in height.
         With clarification that the maximum height of any accessory building
is to be measured at the bearing point of the roof trusses on the exterior wall
(not the bottom of the roof trusses).
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.8; Ord. 14-01, passed 9-11-2014; Ord. 2020-01,
passed - -2020; Ord. 22-4, passed 12-8-2022) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.253 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in §
154.273 of this chapter do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas,
water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances, since the items are
usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy. However, height limitations shall apply to the above-mentioned
structures and to all other structures located within the Airport Overlay Zone
and as regulated in §§
154.055 through
154.058 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.9)
§ 154.254 EXCEPTIONS TO YARD SETBACK REGULATIONS.
   The setback limitations contained in §
154.273 of this chapter do not apply to steps, awnings or similar facilities
that may project into a minimum required yard area; provided, however, that,
said facilities may not extend more than five feet into the minimum required
yard area.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.10) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.255 UNDERGROUND HOMES.
   An underground home, as defined in §
154.006 of this chapter, may be approved as a special use in any residential
zoning district if the Planning Commission finds that all of the following
requirements are met.
   (A)   The structure is in complete compliance with the Building Code and all
local ordinances.
   (B)   The structure meets all the requirements for a dwelling within the
particular district (yard, setback and the like).
   (C)   A performance bond or other security deemed acceptable by the township
is supplied to the township with the proposed architectural and site plans.
   (D)   The aforementioned performance bond shall include final landscaping of
the site.
   (E)   There is no evidence of detrimental effect to adjoining property
owners.
   (F)   The structure is certified by a licensed engineer to be in compliance
with all building codes, ordinances, zoning requirements and accepted
engineering principles.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.11) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.256 MOBILE HOMES.
   No person shall use or permit the use or installation of any mobile home as
a permanent residence or for any other use on any lot not specifically zoned as
mobile home park, except as follows.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, to park or cause to be
parked any mobile home on any street, alley, highway or other public place in
the township or use the same as a dwelling or any other use, either temporarily
or permanently, or for overnight stops outside of a licensed mobile home park,
except as provided in this section or as allowed migrant housing accessory to a
farm.
   (B)   (1)   Except in mobile home parks licensed and supervised by a duly
authorized governing body, no mobile home of similar structure shall be used
for dwelling purposes for more than ten days during any one year without a
building permit from the Building Inspector, nor for more than four months out
of a 12-consecutive-month period or any parts thereof after a building permit
therefor has been first obtained from the Building Inspector. Said building
permit shall be issued only after proof satisfactory to said Building Inspector
shall have been submitted showing that proper toilet and sanitary facilities
are available for use, that no fire hazard will be created, and that no
overcrowding therein will result from such use for residence purposes at the
location desired. Said permit shall be good only for the location designated
thereon and for the year only when issued. A fee, as set by the Township Board
for each trailer or unit, shall be paid at the time of application for said
permit. The permit may be revoked by the Building Inspector if the above
requirements are not maintained.
      (2)   In the event a mobile home or similar structure is used for
dwelling purposes during reconstruction of a residential building destroyed or
partially destroyed by an “act of God”, a permit shall be required from the
township for such period as permitted by this section.
   (C)   All mobile homes used for dwelling purposes 20 feet or more in length
shall be provided with two exits that shall be spaced a sufficient distance
apart to ensure a means of escape in the event of fire.
   (D)   (1)   No mobile home shall be parked between the street right-of-way
in the setback of any lot for a period longer than 24 hours during any seven-
day period.
      (2)   Any such unit parked for over 30 days adjacent to the side of a
house shall in all cases observe the side and rear yard requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   At no time whatsoever shall there be the parking for any purpose of
such a unit longer than 30 feet within a residential zone other than in a
licensed mobile home park.
   (E)   Mobile homes are considered dwelling units but are permitted in only
those areas as, specified in this section, notwithstanding the fact that the
term “dwelling” is used and stated to be allowed in other areas.
   (F)   A mobile home may be used outside of a licensed mobile home park as a
single-family dwelling within the Ag-1, Ag-2, R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts;
provided that, the following conditions are met in addition to the requirements
of the zoning district in which it is placed.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum square feet of living area equal to that
required for a site built residence or dwelling in the zoning district in which
it is placed.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum floor to ceiling height meeting the
regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
      (3)   There shall be a minimum width throughout the entire length of the
mobile home of at least 22 feet measured between the exterior part of the walls
having the greatest length.
      (4)   There shall be a foundation around the entire exterior perimeter of
the mobile home of concrete or block of a minimum depth of 42 inches below
grade with a maximum height of 16 inches of exposed foundation and a minimum of
eight inches exposed of foundation above grade of the same design as required
by the Construction Code as adopted by the township for single-family
residences. Installation of the mobile home shall be pursuant to manufacturer’s
specifications or the equivalent thereof including placement on piers having a
depth of 42 inches below grade or a cross beam configuration on the perimeter
wall provided above.
      (5)   There shall be a crawl space below the entire bottom of the mobile
home.
      (6)   The mobile home shall be firmly attached to the foundation so as to
be reasonably water-tight.
      (7)   All wheels, hitches and axles shall be removed and none of the
undercarriage shall be visible from outside the mobile home.
      (8)   There shall be connected to the mobile home public water and sewer
and/or a well or septic system approved by the county’s Health Department.
      (9)   No storage of any personal property (except legally operable
vehicles) shall occur outside the interior of the mobile home or a garage or
other accessory building as may be allowed.
      (10)   There shall be permanently attached to the foundation steps and/or
porch areas where an elevation differential exists between any door and
surrounding grade.
      (11)   There shall be a minimum of a double pitched roof of not less than
two and one-half feet of rise for each 12 feet of run, and the roof shall be
covered by either asphalt, fiberglass or shake shingles unless 20% or more of
the residences, excluding mobile homes, within one-half mile have a double
pitched roof of less than two and one-half feet of rise for 12 feet of run,
then a double pitched roof equal to the average pitch of said 20% residences
may be used.
      (12)   There shall be exterior siding consisting of horizontal lap siding
or other siding of the same materials and attached in the same manner as
allowed under the Construction Code as adopted by the township or as required
by the regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, entitled Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards, effective
6-15-1976, as amended.
      (13)   There shall be no additions to the living space of the mobile home
unless it meets all the requirements hereof and is built according to the same
standard as the mobile home or according to the state Construction Code adopted
by the township or unless allowed as a special use by the Planning Commission.
      (14)   There shall be a minimum of two exterior doors to provide means of
ingress and egress from the mobile home.
      (15)   Prior to a building or zoning permit being issued, plans, floor
plan layouts and certification of meeting HUD mobile home standards of the
mobile home and foundation shall be presented to the township along with a site
plan showing compliance herewith and with all other requirements of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, the requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located.
      (16)   The mobile home must meet standards for mobile home construction
as contained in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) Regulations and titled Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards,
effective 6-15-1976, as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.12) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.257 ANTENNAS.
   (A)   All antennas and/or dish antennas designed to receive or transmit
radio, television, satellite and/or microwave communication or the like for the
lot where it is located within the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, Ag-1 and Ag-2 Zoning
Districts and on a lot where the principal use is a single-family, two-family
or multiple-family dwelling must meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   The antenna and/or dish antenna shall not be placed in a front yard
or required buffer zone.
      (2)   The antenna and/or dish antenna shall meet the side yard
requirements of the zone in which it is located.
      (3)   The antenna and/or dish antenna shall not be closer than its height
to a rear property line or a side property line in the rear yard, or a side
property line in a side yard.
      (4)   The antenna and/or dish antenna shall be permanently anchored to a
foundation with such foundation being designed by an engineer or in accordance
with specifications of the manufacturer but in no case shall the foundation
fail to meet the requirements of the state’s Construction Code as adopted and
enforced by the township.
      (5)   No portion of the antenna and/or dish antenna shall conduct or
display any advertising message or other graphic representation other than
manufacturer’s name, which in no case shall such name cover more than one
square foot in area.
   (B)   All antennas and/or dish antennas designed to receive or transmit
radio, television, satellite and/or microwave communications, or the like
within the C-1, C-2, I-1 and I-2 Zoning Districts (except for property used
principally for single-family, two-family and multiple-family dwellings) must
meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   The antenna and/or dish antenna shall be located either on a roof
of a principal building or in the rear yard or side yard, and in no event shall
it be closer to a property line than one-half its height.
      (2)   The antenna and/or dish antenna shall be permanently anchored to a
foundation or roof structure with such foundation anchoring and/or attachment
being designed by an engineer or in accordance with specifications of the
manufacturer.
      (3)   No portions of the antenna and/or dish antenna shall conduct or
display any advertising, message or other graphic representation other than the
manufacturer’s name, which in no case shall such name cover more than one
square foot in area.
   (C)   Dish antennas or similar equipment have been designed to receive and/
or transmit satellite, radio, television and microwave communications or the
like.
   (D)   The township wishes to encourage the use of such dish antennas and yet
reasonably regulate the same in light of clearly defined health, safety and
aesthetic considerations.
   (E)   The height of a dish antenna exceeding 15 feet in height is
aesthetically out of character with other uses within the various zoning
districts and with various residential uses.
   (F)   The placement of dish antennas on structures or buildings that are
used as dwellings or that are in certain zoning districts are aesthetically out
of character with such uses and districts.
   (G)   Permitting uses that are aesthetically out of character promotes
premature economic obsolescence and decrease in property values.
   (H)   (1)   Dish antennas by their design and construction have a greater
surface area in a more dense configuration than other antennas.
      (2)   The dish antennas that exceed a height of 15 feet and/or are placed
in residential and agricultural zoning districts or on buildings or structures
that are used as residential dwellings limits the providing of adequate light
and open space and increases the possible danger to inhabitants of dwellings
from such dish antennas becoming detached in storms and high winds.
      (3)   Dish antennas within the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, Ag-1 and Ag-
2 Districts (and on property in other zoning districts used principally for
single-family, two-family or multiple-family dwellings) shall be mounted on the
ground and shall not exceed a height of 15 feet including its mounting
structure.
      (4)   Antennas on existing structures other than towers.
         (a)   In the Ag-1 District, any antenna that is attached to an
existing structure other than a tower, as defined in this section, and any
antennas attached to elevated water storage tanks, telephone poles or towers
principally used for telephone or electric wires and lines, may be approved by
the Zoning Administrator; provided:
            1.   The antenna does not extend more than 30 feet above the
highest point of the structure;
            2.   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
            3.   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes and
ordinances.
         (b)   In the C-1, C-2, I-1 and I-2 Zoning Districts, any antenna that
is attached to an existing structure other than a tower, as defined in this
section, may be approved by the Zoning Administrator as an accessory use to any
commercial, industrial, office, institutional or governmental use; provided
that, all of the requirements of this section are satisfied.
         (c)   In the event of any conflict between this section and any other
sections of this chapter or other applicable ordinances or codes, the more
stringent provision shall govern.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.13) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.258 LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall have a buildable area. The net buildable area of a lot
shall be a contiguous piece of land excluding land subject to flooding six
months of the year, poor drainage, steep slopes, rock outcrops and land
encumbered by easements preventing the use of the land. In no case shall the
net buildable area of a lot be less than 15,000 square feet unless otherwise
specified herein.
   (B)   No lot shall be created that does not meet the minimum lot size and
dimensional regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   On a corner lot, each lot line that abuts a street shall be deemed to
be a front lot line, and the required yard along both lot frontages shall be a
required front yard. The owner shall elect, and so designate in his or her
application for a permit, which of the remaining two required yards shall be
the required side yard and which the required rear yard.
   (D)   (1)   A lot shall be considered to be a cul-de-sac lot if the lot has
more than one-half of its required road frontage on the cul-de-sac. The one-
half required road frontage shall be determined prior to reducing the required
frontage permitted by division (D)(3) below. Thus, if the required road
frontage is 150 feet, the lot must have more than 75 feet of road frontage on
the cul-de-sac portion in order to qualify for the reduction in total road
frontage as specified in division (D)(3) below.
      (2)   The cul-de-sac shall be determined to commence at the intersection
of the radius of the cul-de-sac with the street right-of-way line.
      (3)   A lot on a cul-de-sac shall have road frontage on a cul-de-sac that
is not less than 60% of the minimum lot width required for the zoning district
in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.16) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.259 UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The installation of all electrical work, including equipment,
shall in every case be done in a safe and workmanlike manner. The regulations
of the current National Electrical Code (or the equivalent) that is in effect
at the time of the beginning of construction of any building shall be
considered as good standards practice by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Installation shall comply with the requirements of the electrical
utility company servicing the area.
   (B)   The installation of all interior plumbing work shall comply with Art.
I through XI, inclusive, of the Plumbing Code of the state (or the equivalent).
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.17) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.260 PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking. All buildings located in the township shall
provide off-street parking adequate for the use intended, as specified in §
154.247 of this chapter. A parking space shall be ten feet by 20 feet or 200
square feet. Parking lots shall include aisle space of 25 feet in width.
   (B)   Parking, storage or use of recreational equipment in platted areas.
For purposes of these regulations, recreational equipment is construed as
including boats and boat trailers, recreational vehicles and the like, and
cases or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied
by such equipment or not.
      (1)   Recreation vehicle or boat larger than 19 feet in length shall not
be parked or stored in any required front yard of any lot in a platted
residential subdivision, except when temporarily parked for not more than 24
hours during loading or unloading (no such equipment shall be used for
permanent living or housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on any
residential lot).
      (2)   Parking and storage of the above defined recreational equipment
must be within a building located in the side or rear yards and must observe
the requirements for accessory buildings, as provided elsewhere in this
chapter.
   (C)   Inoperable vehicles/unlicensed vehicles. No inoperable or unlicensed
vehicle shall be parked or stored, except when in a completely enclosed
structure.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.18) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.261 OUTDOOR FURNACES.
   (A)   Definition. An OUTDOOR FURNACE is defined as a furnace, heating
system, stove or boiler that is a separate structure not located in a building
(which building is intended for habitation by humans or domestic animals), but
which provides heat or hot water for such building or structure located on the
same lot.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   One outdoor furnace is permitted per lot in the Ag-1, Ag-2, R-1 and
R-2 Zoning Districts subject to the requirements of this section and the
issuance of a building permit (or its equivalent) by the township’s Building
Inspector (or such other official as is designated by the Township Board).
      (2)   Any outdoor furnace that was lawfully located on a lot and in
operation prior to the date of adoption of this section shall be allowed to
continue, but must comply with divisions (A) above and (C) below. In addition,
such lawfully existing furnaces shall also comply with all of the following
requirements.
         (a)   If a smoke stack on an existing outdoor furnace is to be
replaced or modified, the new or modified smokestack shall comply with the
height requirements of division (D) below.
         (b)   If the existing furnace does not meet the setback requirements
of this section, it shall not be moved so as to decrease the existing setbacks.
Any moving of the outdoor furnace shall be considered a modification and the
furnace must then comply with the setback, smoke stack and other requirements
of this section.
         (c)   If any of the major components of an outdoor furnace system
(such as the heat exchanger, smokestack, water pump or underground pipes) are
to be replaced or modified or the outdoor furnace is proposed to be moved on
the lot, then the entire outdoor furnace shall comply with all of the
requirements of this section. However, if the township’s Building Inspector (or
such other official as is designated by the Township Board) determines that any
such modification or replacement will promote safety and public health, but
that the owner of the lot will not do such replacement or modification if the
outdoor furnace is required to be moved and be in full compliance with all of
the requirements of this section, the township’s Building Inspector (or other
equivalent township official) can allow such modification or replacement to be
made while waiving some or all of the requirements of this section regarding
the location and other aspects of a new outdoor furnace.
   (C)   Operating requirements.
      (1)   Outdoor furnaces shall be installed (and operated) according to the
manufacturer’s instructions and all applicable building and mechanical codes at
all times.
      (2)   Each outdoor furnace shall only be used to burn wood without
additives, wood pellets without additives and agricultural seeds in their
natural state. The following materials are specifically prohibited as items or
materials to be burned in outdoor furnaces:
         (a)   Rubbish or garbage including, but not limited to, food waste,
food, wraps, packaging, animal carcasses, paint, petroleum products or painted
materials, furniture, composite shingles, construction or demolition debris or
other household or business wastes;
         (b)   Waste oil or other oily wastes;
         (c)   Treated or painted wood;
         (d)   Any plastic material including, but not limited to, nylon, PVC,
polystyrene or urethane foam and synthetics fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers;
         (e)   Rubber, including tires and synthetic like products; and
         (f)   Newspapers, corrugated cardboard, container board or office
paper.
      (3)   Outdoor furnaces shall be kept in a reasonable condition and repair
at all times.
      (4)   No outdoor furnace shall be used or operated in such a fashion as
to become a nuisance to the owners or occupiers of any adjoining or nearby
properties or dwellings or in such a fashion that smoke emissions unreasonably
interfere with the safe or reasonable enjoyment of any of the owners or
occupants of nearby or adjoining properties.
   (D)   Location and smokestack height.
      (1)   Every outdoor furnace shall be located at least 100 feet from the
nearest dwelling unit that is not on the same lot as the outdoor furnace.
      (2)   Each outdoor furnace shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from all
property lines and shall not be located between the principal building on the
lot and the public or private street.
      (3)   (a)   Each outdoor furnace shall have a smokestack that extends at
least ten feet above the ground surface. In addition, if any dwelling or other
principal building is intended to be occupied by humans and which is not on the
same lot as the outdoor furnace, but which is located within 300 feet of the
outdoor furnace, the height of the smokestack shall be no lower than the roof
peak of such dwelling or principal building.
         (b)   The Building Inspector (or other person so designated by the
Township Board) may approve a lesser smokestack height if necessary to comply
with the manufacturer’s recommendations and if it can be demonstrated that
smoke from the lower smokestack height will not create a nuisance for residents
of nearby existing dwellings. Factors that shall be considered by the Building
Inspector (or Township Board designee) in making a determination to permit a
lower smokestack height shall include, but are not limited to, topography,
height of nearby dwellings, prevailing wind direction, type of furnace and
proposed smokestack height.
      (4)   An outdoor furnace shall be located no closer than ten feet to a
propane tank or similar flammable container.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.19) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.262 ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK AND FOWL.
   (A)   No animals, livestock or fowl, other than common household pets, shall
be permitted to be used, sheltered or stored in the R-4 or RR Zoning Districts
unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Where animals, livestock and fowl other than common household pets are
permitted to be used, sheltered or stored either by right, or by special use
permit, or as any accessory use, the following requirements shall be met:
      (1)   The property on which animal, livestock, or fowl are kept shall
contain a single-family dwelling.
      (2)   All buildings or structures used for shelter, storage or feeding
shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from any lot line and shall be so
constructed and maintained that odor, dust, noise, or drainage shall not
constitute a nuisance or hazard to adjoining or nearby parcels.
      (3)   Such animals, shall not be pastured, kept or stored within the
front 35 feet of any front yard.
      (4)   All premises and structures used for any such animals shall
continuously be maintained in a sanitary condition and shall be subject to
inspection by the township at any reasonable time and shall not emanate
objectionable odors that would be a nuisance to adjacent neighbors.
      (5)   The use, storage or keeping of such animals shall not cause any
erosion and no animal wastes shall run off onto any adjacent property.
      (6)   The township, upon violation of any of the provisions hereof, may
issue a stop work order. The stop work order shall continue until the premises
have been brought into compliance, their causes of non-compliance removed or
remedied, and the township has approved the premises.
      (7)   Any person keeping animals, livestock and fowl shall remain subject
to public nuisance and other associated codes and ordinances, including, but
not limited to, noise, odor and blight.
      (8)   Number of poultry allowed.
         (a)   On a property one acre or less in area:
            1.   No more than six hens may be kept at any time.
            2.   Roosters and crowing chickens shall be prohibited.
         (b)   On a property more than one acre but less than five acres in
area, no more than 20 poultry may be kept at any time.
         (c)   On a property more than five acres in area, no limit to the
number of poultry kept as long as it is in compliance with all other
regulations contained within this section and all other applicable local, state
and federal regulations.
      (9)   The keeping and raising of domesticated animals and livestock not
customarily kept as household pets, such as horses, cattle, goats and pigs, is
permitted; provided, however, that on parcels of ten acres or less in area, the
number of domesticated animals (other than household pets) shall not exceed two
animal for the first one and one-half acres of land area plus one additional
animal for each additional one-half acre of land area.
   (C)   Pet regulations; prohibition on exotic and dangerous animals.
      (1)   All pets, dog owners and pet owners shall fully comply with the
Kent County Animal Control Ordinance, as amended.
      (2)   The keeping of more than three dogs is prohibited, unless approved
by the township as a lawful kennel pursuant to this section. Notwithstanding
such prohibition, any litter of dogs that causes the limit of three to be
exceeded shall not constitute a violation of this provision for a period of six
months after birth. Kennels shall comply with §
154.212.
      (3)   No person shall keep, house, board, breed, or possess any exotic or
dangerous animal within the township. Such prohibition includes, but is not
limited to, lions, tigers, wolves, bears, coyotes, elephants, alligators,
crocodiles, primates, snakes over three feet in length, wild or exotic cats
(such as, but not limited to, bobcat, cheetah, cougar, lynx, panther, mountain
lion, or puma), wild pigs or boar, venomous snakes, spiders, scorpions and
other dangerous reptiles. This division shall not apply to lawful zoos or
circuses.
      (4)   No person owning or having charge, care, possession, custody or
control of any dog or other animal shall allow or permit such dog or animal at
any time, by loud or frequent or habitual barking, noise, yelping, screaming or
howling to become a nuisance, be unreasonably loud, cause annoyance or audible
pain to any person in the neighborhood or any person utilizing adjacent or
nearby public roads or property or cause an unreasonable disturbance.
      (5)   No person owning or having charge, control, possession, custody or
care of any dog or other animal shall cause, permit or allow the same to run at
large or be upon any private property (without the consent of the owner of such
land), public property or road unless such dog or animal is restrained by a
chain or leash and is under the direct charge, care, possession, custody or
control of a person of 18 years of age or older with the ability to control and
restrain the animal.
   (D)   Clean premises. All premises on which animals are kept or housed shall
be kept sanitary and shall be subject to inspection at any reasonable time or
times by the Zoning Administrator of the township.
   (E)   County regulations. No provision of this section shall be interpreted
to conflict with the Kent County Animal Control Ordinance (as amended) or be
enforced to the degree that it conflicts with the Kent County Animal Control
Ordinance in any fashion that is not consistent with Public Act 339 of 1919,
being M.C.L.A. § 287.289a.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.20; Ord. 24-4, passed 9-12-2024, § 8) Penalty, see
§
154.999
§ 154.263 CHURCHES; DAY CARE AND CHILD CARE CENTERS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a child care or day
care center shall be permitted as an accessory use of a church in any zoning
district (including a church that is a non- conforming use in the zoning
district in which it is located).
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.21)
§ 154.264 TRANSITION ZONING.
   (A)   A residentially zoned lot having its side yard abutting a commercial
or industrial zoning district boundary that is located within the township may
be used as a special use in accordance with the least restrictive residential
district requirements for new residential structures. Such transition lot
cannot be construed to extend for more than 150 feet from such commercial or
industrial zoning district boundary. In addition, said land may be used for
offices for doctors, dentists, architects and similar professions.
   (B)   For approval of these uses on a transitional lot, a detailed site
development plan and an architectural profile of all structures to be erected
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator to determine that site
development meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Yard and area requirements of the zoning district;
      (2)   Adequate parking areas and access drives;
      (3)   Landscaping and screening to safeguard adjacent residential uses;
and
      (4)   The proposed building has a residential appearance in keeping with
the character of the adjacent neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.22)
§ 154.265 LIGHTING, SCREENING AND FENCES.
   (A)   Lighting. All lighting upon any premises, regardless of zone, shall be
so arranged that such lighting does not produce any glare that is a nuisance or
annoyance to residents or occupants of adjoining premises or to the traveling
public or public highways.
   (B)   Screening. A buffer yard shall be provided wherever a business,
commercial, or industrial use abuts a residential district or use. The purpose
of buffer yards is to buffer incompatible use, moderate harsh or unpleasant
sounds, remove air pollutants, reduce the glare from vehicle headlights, or
otherwise lessen conflicts between uses.
      (1)   The buffer yard requirements of this section shall apply to all new
construction, and all expansions, renovations, or alterations that increase the
size of an existing structure or building.
      (2)   Buffer yards shall be located within a minimum required building
setback.
      (3)   The requirements of this section are the minimum requirements for
buffer yards. The requirements are as follows:
         (a)   A buffer yard shall be a minimum of ten feet wide.
         (b)   For each 20 linear feet abutting the adjacent property, one tree
shall be planted within the buffer yard. Trees shall be a mixture of evergreen,
canopy, and ornamental trees. Two shrubs shall be planted for each tree and
each shrub shall be a minimum of 30 inches at planting and reach a minimum
height of five feet at maturity. All plantings shall meet the following
requirements:
            1.   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than eight feet to
a fence line or property line.
            2.   Evergreen trees shall be planted not more than 20 feet on
center and shall be not less than four feet in height at planting.
            3.   Ornamental trees or tree-like shrubs shall be planted not more
than ten feet on center and shall not be less than four feet in height at
planting.
            4.   Deciduous shrubs shall be planted not more than four feet on
center and shall not be less than 30 inches in height at planting.
            5.   Deciduous trees shall be planted not more than 25 feet on
center and shall not be less than two inches in caliper measured at breast
height at planting.
            6.   All landscaping shall be hardy plant materials and maintained
thereafter in a neat, healthy, and orderly manner. Withered and/or dead plant
materials shall be replaced within a reasonable period of time but no longer
than one growing season.
         (c)   If a berm three to six feet in height is used for all or part of
the greenbelt, required plant material quantities may be reduced by 25%. The
berm shall not exceed six feet in height. All plant materials shall be placed
along the top and exterior side slope of the berm. The greenbelt width shall be
increased as needed to accommodate maximum berm side slopes of one foot
vertical rise to three feet horizontal.
         (d)   A screen wall or solid fence may be used for all or part of the
greenbelt. If a solid fence or screen wall is used, the following regulations
shall apply.
            1.   Required quantities of plant materials may be reduced by 50%
for that area abutting the fence or wall.
            2.   The fence or wall shall be of sufficient density or
compactness to screen the structures and activities of the business from the
view of occupants of adjoining premises, not less than five feet in height and
maintained in a neat and attractive manner, commensurate with the adjoining
residential district. No such wall or fence shall terminate closer than ten
feet from any adjoining street right-of-way line.
            3.   The fence or wall shall comply with the applicable regulations
of this chapter.
      (4)   The Planning Commission is hereby given the authority to increase,
decrease or otherwise modify the screening requirements of this section. In so
doing, the Planning Commission shall consider the following criteria:
         (a)   The amount of space on the site available for landscaping;
         (b)   Existing landscaping on the site and on adjacent properties;
         (c)   The type of use on the site and size of the development;
         (d)   Existing and proposed adjacent land uses;
         (e)   The effect the required landscaping would have on the operation
of the existing proposed land use; and
         (f)   Whether additional landscaping is necessary to mitigate the
adverse effects of the proposed use or adjoining land uses, to reduce headlight
glare, reduce noise and to otherwise achieve the objectives of this section.
   (C)   Fences.
      (1)   Unless specifically provided for elsewhere in this chapter, a front
yard fence in a residential zone may not exceed a height of four feet and shall
not be more than 50% solid.
      (2)   It is unlawful to construct any private fence or barrier within a
public right-of-way.
      (3)   In all districts, the frontage for corner lots shall follow the
same limitations as provided for residential front yard screening.
      (4)   Barbed wire fences are prohibited only within the R-1 and R-
2 Zoning Districts on land that has been platted or made part of a site
condominium. Notwithstanding the above, barbed wire fence may be used to
enclose schools, public buildings and structures, and utility and essential
service buildings and structures.
      (5)   Above ground electrical fences are prohibited only within R-1 and
R-2 Zoning Districts on land that has been platted or made part of a site
condominium. Notwithstanding the above, electrical fences may be used to
enclose schools, public buildings and structures, and utility and essential
service buildings and structures.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.23; Ord. 23-7, passed 9-14-2023, § 1) Penalty, see
§
154.999
§ 154.266 AMATEUR RADIO TOWERS.
   In order to reasonably accommodate licensed amateur radio operators as
required by Federal Code of Regulations, 47 C.F.R. part 97, as amended, and
Order and Opinion (PRB-1) of the Federal Communication Commission of September,
1985, a licensed amateur radio operator may locate a tower not to exceed 100
feet in height in the R-1and R-2 Zoning Districts and 195 feet in height in any
other zoning district; provided, the following requirements are met.
   (A)   The tower and any antennas located thereon shall not have any lights
of any kind on it and shall not be illuminated either directly or indirectly by
any artificial means.
   (B)   The color of the tower and any antennas located thereof must all be
the same and such that it blends into the sky, to the extent allowed under
requirements set forth by either the Federal Aviation Administration or the
state’s Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aeronautics.
   (C)   No advertising logo, trademark, figurines or other similar marking or
lettering shall be placed on the tower or any attachments thereto, or any
building used in conjunction therewith.
   (D)   No signs shall be used in conjunction with the tower, except for one
sign not larger than eight and one-half inches high and 11 inches wide.
   (E)   Towers may be located upon a site where there is another principal use
and shall not constitute a second principal use.
   (F)   Towers must be at least three-quarters of its height from any property
line on the parcel of property on which it is located, unless a licensed
engineer certifies that the tower will not collapse or that it is designed in
such a way that in the event of collapse, it falls within itself, and in that
event, it must be located at least one-third of its height from any property
line.
   (G)   Towers must be at least 100% of its height from a dwelling on an
adjacent parcel.
   (H)   Tower space shall not be leased or rented to commercial users. Towers
shall not accommodate commercial users and shall not otherwise be used for
commercial purposes.
   (I)   All towers must meet all applicable state and federal statutes, rules
and regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.24) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.267 MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   No medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana provisioning center,
medical marijuana grower facility, medical marijuana safety compliance faculty,
medical marijuana secure transporter, medical marijuana processor facility or
similar facility or use shall be conducted, commenced, operated or utilized in
any zoning district or on or from any property within the township.
Furthermore, no person shall frequent, patronize or obtain or purchase any
marijuana from any medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana provisioning
center or similar facility, business or operation within the township.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.25; Ord. 17-2, passed 12-14-2017) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.268 MISCELLANEOUS USES.
   Any use, use of land, activity, building, structure or development activity
not expressly allowed by this chapter is prohibited, unless the Zoning
Administrator finds that the proposed use is identical in character to a use or
item listed in this chapter. Uses, activities, enterprises or purposes that are
contrary to, or violate federal, state or county laws or regulations, this
chapter, or other township ordinances are prohibited. An individual may apply
to the Planning Commission for consideration of an amendment to this chapter to
include a proposed use in one or more of the zoning districts of this chapter,
either as a permitted use or a special use. At their option and discretion, the
Planning Commission and Township Board may consider an appropriate amendment to
this chapter, but are not required to do so.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.26)
§ 154.269 MINING; NATURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
use of lands that have significant gravel and/or sand deposits and which, if
mined for such deposits under the regulations of this subchapter and this
chapter, would not constitute a hazard to the public health, safety and
welfare. The regulations are intended to result in: mining and excavation
operations that will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and
welfare; and operations that will be conducive to and result in the reclamation
of the land so that it will be suitable for other purposes, including single-
family residential and agricultural uses and purposes. Further, it is the
intent of these provisions to preserve the natural resources of the township.
   (B)   Zoning districts. Mining and mineral extraction shall be allowed in
any zoning district if approved by the Planning Commission as a special use.
   (C)   Site plans. A site plan for the proposed mining or mineral extraction
operation (together with a reclamation plan) shall be filed with the township
and shall be reviewed and approved, approved with conditions or denied by the
Planning Commission as part of the special use review process.
   (D)   Standards. In order to approve a special use for mining or mineral
extraction, the Planning Commission must find that no very serious consequences
would result from the mining or mineral extraction operation, use or
activities. In making that determination, all of the following factors may be
considered if applicable:
      (1)   The relationship of extraction and associated activities with
existing land uses;
      (2)   The impact on existing land uses in the vicinity of the property
involved;
      (3)   The impact on property values in the vicinity of the property
involved and along the proposed hauling route serving the property involved,
based on credible evidence;
      (4)   The impact on pedestrian and traffic safety in the vicinity of the
property involved and along the proposed hauling route serving the property
involved;
      (5)   The impact on other identifiable health, safety and welfare
interests in the township; and
      (6)   The overall public interest in the extraction of the specific
natural resources on the property involved.
   (E)   Conditions. If the Planning Commission approves a special use for a
mining or mineral extraction use, activity or operation, the Planning
Commission can attach reasonable conditions to such approval regarding the
following areas and topics:
      (1)   Hours of operation;
      (2)   Noise;
      (3)   Dust control;
      (4)   Blasting hours; and
      (5)   Traffic.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.28)
§ 154.270 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   A bed and breakfast establishment may be approved by the Planning Commission
as a special use in the Ag-1 and Ag-2 Zoning Districts upon compliance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments shall be located only in buildings
that are used and have been used as detached single-family dwellings with a
minimum of 2,000 square feet of finished floor area. No dwelling or other
building shall be constructed or enlarged for the purpose of having or
operating a bed and breakfast establishment.
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided in addition to that required for
residential purposes at the rate of one vehicle parking space per sleeping
room. Such parking need not be paved.
   (C)   One sign shall be allowed for identification purposes only. Such sign
shall not exceed 16 square feet in size and shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of §§
154.380 and
154.381 of this chapter.
   (D)   No use shall be permitted that is not also a permitted use within the
zoning district in which the bed and breakfast establishment is located.
   (E)   Meals may be served only to the operator’s family and lodgers of the
establishment.
   (F)   Cooking facilities in bed and breakfast guest rooms are prohibited.
   (G)   The bed and breakfast shall comply with all applicable regulations of
the county’s Health Department for the serving of food. In addition, if a bed
and breakfast is approved by the Planning Commission, the property owner shall
provide documentation from the county’s Health Department that the well and
septic system on the property is capable of serving the proposed use. This
documentation shall be provided to the township’s Zoning Administrator before
the bed and breakfast is open for business.
   (H)   The dwelling unit in which the bed and breakfast is located shall be
the principal residence of the operator/owner, and the operator/owner shall
live in the dwelling unit when the bed and breakfast operation is active.
   (I)   Exterior refuse storage facilities in addition to what would normally
be expected for a detached single-family dwelling shall be screened from view
on all sides by a six-foot solid decorative fence or wall, or by other
screening approved by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   In addition to providing a site plan to the township as required by §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter, an applicant for a bed and breakfast shall also
provide to the township a floor plan of the dwelling unit and the use of each
room.
   (K)   The maximum stay for any lodger of a bed and breakfast (excluding the
operator/owner) shall be ten consecutive days, not to exceed to a total of 30
days during any 12-month period.
   (L)   (1)   The Building Inspector and Fire Chief shall conduct an
inspection of the dwelling proposed for the bed and breakfast establishment
following approval by the Planning Commission in order to ensure compliance
with the applicable requirements of the Building Code and Fire Code.
      (2)   Any measures required to comply with these codes shall be completed
before the bed and breakfast shall open for business.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.29) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.271 [RESERVED].
§ 154.272 COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   Communication towers, as defined within the Federal Telecommunication Act of
1996, as amended (47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)), and for functionally equivalent
services (including those provided as essential services) must meet the
following requirements.
   (A)   The tower and any antenna located thereon shall not exceed 250 feet in
height.
   (B)   The tower must be of a monopole or free standing lattice design,
capable of supplying its own support without the assistance of guy wires or
other supports.
   (C)   The tower and any antennas located thereon shall not have any lights
of any kind on it and shall not be illuminated either directly or indirectly by
any artificial means, except when lighting is required by either the Federal
Aviation Administration or the state’s Department of Transportation, Bureau of
Aeronautics.
   (D)   The color of the tower and any antennas located thereof must all be
the same and such that it blends into the sky, to the extent allowed under
requirements set forth by either the Federal Aviation Administration or the
state’s Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aeronautics.
   (E)   No advertising logo, trademark, figurines or other similar marking or
lettering shall be placed on the tower or any attachments thereto or any
building used in conjunction therewith.
   (F)   The tower shall be located a distance equal to (or greater than) its
height from any existing residential structure located on another parcel of
property, unless a licensed engineer certifies that the tower and method of
construction is such that the tower will not collapse or that it will collapse
within itself and in that event, it must be located at least one-half of its
height from any residence located on another parcel of property.
   (G)   (1)   Any equipment used in conjunction with the tower (other than
antennas placed upon the tower) shall be located within a completely enclosed
unmanned building.
      (2)   The building shall not be larger than 500 square feet in area.
      (3)   Only one low wattage (150 w or less) shielded wall-mounted security
light over the entrance to the building is permitted.
      (4)   Shielding of the light shall be to direct light down to the ground.
      (5)   There shall be no storage or placement of personal property outside
such building.
   (H)   No signs shall be used in conjunction with the tower, except for one
sign not larger than eight and one-half inches high and 11 inches wide.
   (I)   Personnel are not allowed to be continuously on the site, but may come
onto the site for servicing, maintenance and related work necessary to the
operation of the tower and related equipment.
   (J)   (1)   No toxic, hazardous, or other dangerous substances of any kind
shall be stored, placed or used on the property, except for gasoline used
specifically for emergency electrical generators and which is located within
gas tanks directly attached to such generators.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, maintenance crews may bring onto the
property, while maintenance is being conducted, lubricants and other materials
reasonably necessary to properly maintain the facility; provided, there is
compliance with all applicable township, county, state and federal ordinances,
statutes, rules and regulations.
   (K)   All access drives and areas used for vehicular use shall be composed
of at least 12 inches of compacted road gravel (MDOT 21AA or 22A).
   (L)   Towers may be located upon a site where there is another principal use
and shall not constitute a second principal use.
   (M)   A tower must be located at least three-quarters of its height away
from any property line on the parcel of property on which it is located, unless
a licensed engineer certifies that the tower will not collapse or that it is
designed in such a way that in the event of collapse, it falls within itself
and in that event, it must be located at least one-third of its height from any
property line.
   (N)   All towers must meet all applicable state and federal statutes, rules
and regulations.
   (O)   The applicant must demonstrate by way of a written opinion of a
registered engineer that the proposed tower meets all applicable local, state
and federal building requirements.
   (P)   The owner or operator of the tower and any subsequent owner or
operator of the tower must make reasonable accommodation for co-location of
antennas or other similar devices to provide for personal wireless services
and/or for functionally equivalent services by other providers upon payment of
reasonable compensation under all of the circumstances; and, provided, such co-
location is technically and legally feasible.
   (Q)   No tower shall be closer than one-half mile to a similar such tower,
that is capable of supporting the required antenna loading at the necessary
height; provided, co-location on such tower can be obtained.
   (R)   There must be submitted to the township an engineering study showing
that there is a reasonable need for the tower in order to provide for personal
wireless services or functionally equivalent services and that it is not
reasonably possible to co-locate on an existing tower to provide such service.
   (S)   The towers must be located only within the Ag-1, I-1 or I-2 Zoning
Districts. Any such tower located within the Airport Overlay District must meet
the requirements of §§
154.055 through
154.058 of this chapter.
   (T)   All other requirements of the zone in which they are located must be
met.
   (U)   A site plan showing compliance with the requirements hereof, shall be
submitted and approved by the Planning Commission.
   (V)   Antennas used for personal wireless service as defined within the
Federal Telecommunication Act of 1996, as amended, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C),
and for functionally equivalent services that are four feet in length or less
may be placed in any zoning district on elevated water storage tanks, telephone
poles and towers whose principal use is for telephone wires and lines on poles
or towers whose principal use is for electrical distribution or transmission
wires, cables or lines.
   (W)   In order to reasonably accommodate licensed amateur radio operators as
is required by Federal Code of Regulations, 47 C.F.R. part 97, as amended, and
Order and Opinion (PRB1) of the Federal Communication Commission of September,
1985, a licensed amateur radio operator may locate a tower not to exceed 100
feet in height in the R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts and 200 feet in height in
any other zoning district; provided, the requirements above are met.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.32) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.273 SCHEDULE OF BULK REGULATIONS.
   
Appendix B, attached to the ordinance codified herein, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, App. B)
§ 154.274 CERTAIN PROHIBITED LAND USES.
   (A)   Land uses, activities, structures, enterprises or purposes that are
contrary to or which violate federal or state laws, county ordinances, this
chapter or other township ordinances are prohibited.
   (B)   No zoning approval, permit, variance, rezoning, site plan approval or
zoning compliance permit shall be issued or granted by the township for any
use, activity, structure or building that is illegal under state law or federal
law.
   (C)   The following applies to certain marijuana (marihuana) establishments
and facilities.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         IHRA. The Industrial Hemp Research Act, Public Act 547 of 2014, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 286.841 et seq.
         MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in the MRTMA.
         MARIJUANA FACILITY. As defined in the MMFLA.
         MMFLA. The Medical Marijuana Facilities Licensing Act, Public Act 281
of 2016, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq., as amended.
         MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marijuana Act, 2008 IL 1, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq., as amended
         MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marijuana Act, 2018 IL
1, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   (a)   Pursuant to § 6 of the MRTMA, marijuana establishments are
prohibited within the boundaries of the township.
         (b)   Marijuana facilities are also prohibited within the boundaries
of the township.
      (3)   (a)   This division (C) shall not affect the rights or privileges
of any individual or other person under § 5 of the MRTMA, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.27955, as amended.
         (b)   This division (C) does not affect the rights or privileges of a
marijuana facility outside of the township to engage in activities within the
township that it is permitted to engage in under the MMFLA within a
municipality that has not authorized marijuana facilities to operate within its
boundaries.
         (c)   This division (C) does not affect the rights or privileges of
registered qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers under the MMMA
or the MMFLA.
         (d)   This division (C) does not affect the rights or privileges of
any individual or other person under the IHRA.
         (e)   This division (C) does not affect the rights or privileges of
any individual or other person under any other federal or state law, rule or
regulation related to the medical use of marijuana.
(Ord. 19-2, passed 3-14-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.275 CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS AS PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Certain large scale residential developments (being those which
include 20 or more lots, parcels or site condominium units in the AG-2, R-l, R-
2, and R-3 zoning districts) shall be approved and developed only as planned
unit developments (PUD). The regulating of such development on a PUD basis will
enable the township to control and moderate the size, scope and impact of such
development, in accordance with the Township Master Plan and the purposes of
this chapter. The requirements of this section shall apply whether such
development involves simple land divisions, platted subdivisions, site
condominium units or any other type of land division, conveyance or development
resulting in a number of lots, parcels, site condominium units or other land
divisions greater than 20.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, SUBDIVISION includes any lands, whether
contiguous or not, if the number of lots, parcels of land, site condominium
units or other units or interests more than 11 are offered as part of a common
promotional plan for sale or conveyance, or where the subdivision is being
developed or is offered for sale, transfer or building construction by one
developer or landowner, or more than one developer or landowner, whether acting
individually or in concert.
   (C)   In the AG-2, R-l, R-2, and R-3 zoning districts, no subdivision shall
be established or created and no lot, site condominium unit, or parcel of land
in a subdivision shall be sold, conveyed, transferred or otherwise established,
nor shall any building permit or zoning approval permit be issued, for any land
in a subdivision unless such subdivision shall have been approved by the
township as a planned unit development (PUD).
   (D)   If parcels of land are contiguous or if they are known, designated or
advertised as a single or common development, or by a single or common name,
the land shall be deemed to be offered for disposition as part of a common
promotional plan and shall accordingly be deemed to be part of a subdivision,
if the total number of lots, parcels of land, site condominium units, other
interests, or any combination thereof, exceeds 11.
   (E)   For purposes of this section CONTIGUOUS land means any additional land
adjacent to or adjoining the subdivided or divided land included in any
previous subdivision.
   (F)   If a parcel of land is created, divided or split from or out of
another parcel of land, and if either or both of such parcels are further
divided, split or site condominium units are created, or if any of such actions
is proposed, within seven years after the recording of the first land division
or land split, then each parcel shall be considered a subdivision for purposes
of this section, and accordingly, each parcel shall be subject to planned unit
development (PUD) approval, if the number of lots, parcels of land, or site
condominium units created or developed from or out of such parcels or either of
them exceeds 20 in total.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022, § 4.33)
WIRELESS INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (WISP)
§ 154.285 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards and procedures by
which the installation and operation of towers and antennas used for the
purpose of wireless internet communication shall be regulated within the
township, in order to promote the safe, effective and efficient use of this
communication system.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.14)
§ 154.286 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this section, a WIRELESS INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDER (WISP) is
defined as an antenna or similar device mounted on a tower, building or other
structure that serves to provide wireless internet communication service.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.14)
§ 154.287 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A WISP which, for mounting purposes, requires the installation of a
pole, tower or similar structure other than a building shall only be allowed as
a special use within the Ag-2 Zoning District subject to the regulations and
requirements of this subchapter and also the general special use review
procedures and standards of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter.
   (B)   A WISP that is attached to an existing building, tower, pole or
similar structure is permitted in all zoning districts subject to the issuance
of a building permit in accordance with all applicable requirements of the
township’s Building Code and the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.14)
§ 154.288 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   An applicant for a WISP that requires a special use permit shall submit an
application on a form provided by the township and shall also submit the
following information and materials:
   (A)   A description of the WISP(s) to be installed and its design, including
cross-section and elevation drawings and a diagram of how the tower will be
anchored to the ground;
   (B)   A statement from the applicant that the WISP will be installed in
compliance with the manufacturer’s specifications;
   (C)   Engineered drawings of the tower and a copy of the manufacturer’s
specifications;
   (D)   A description of the tower maintenance program;
   (E)   A decommissioning plan explaining the process to be undertaken by the
applicant for tearing down the tower and removing all tower equipment,
materials and structures and restoring the site so it can be used by a use
permitted in that zoning district;
   (F)   Security measures including emergency contact personnel;
   (G)   Ten copies of a site plan accurately drawn at a scale of not more than
one inch equals 100 feet; however, a larger scale may be accepted by the
Planning Commission depending upon the size of the parcel. The site plan shall
contain at a minimum the following information unless specifically waived by
the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The date on which the site plan was prepared;
      (2)   A north arrow and legal description of the property;
      (3)   The area and dimensions of the parcel containing the WISP including
any area leased for the WISP;
      (4)   A location map sufficient to show the character of the area
surrounding the proposed WISP and the zoning and land use on adjacent
properties;
      (5)   The height of the tower and its distance to all property lines;
      (6)   Any buildings or structures existing on the parcel;
      (7)   The distance to the closest building on adjacent property;
      (8)   The location of any overhead transmission lines on the site or on
adjacent property that might be affected by the tower;
      (9)   Guy wires, guy wire anchors and any other tower supporting
structure or device;
      (10)   Type and height of fencing to be installed around the tower or an
equipment building;
      (11)   Elevation drawings of any buildings designed to serve the tower;
      (12)   Access road; width and construction standards along with access
easement; and
      (13)   Any lighting proposed to be located on the tower.
   (H)   Additional information as required by §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter, or as may be required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.14)
§ 154.289 WISP MOUNTED ON A TOWER; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A WISP mounted on a tower shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   The tower shall be setback from all property lines a distance of not
less than one and one-tenths times the height of the tower as measured from the
base of the tower. Such tower shall not be located within the front yard;
   (B)   All applicable state construction and electrical codes and local
building permit requirements as well as the manufacturer’s installation
requirements provided they do not conflict with the state and local
requirements;
   (C)   All tower lighting required by the FAA shall be shielded to the extent
possible to reduce glare and visibility from the ground. The tower shaft shall
not be illuminated unless required by the FAA and the minimum FAA lighting
standards shall not be exceeded;
   (D)   The state’s Airport Zoning Act (Pubic Act 23 of 1950, being M.C.L.A.
Chapter 259), as amended;
   (E)   The state’s Tall Structures Act (Public Act 259 of 1959, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq.), as amended;
   (F)   The township’s Airport Overlay Zone regulations;
   (G)   A WISP tower that is unused or abandoned shall be removed, along with
any associated buildings and structures, by the owner/operator within 90 days
of the date of a written notice from the township. An extension of 90 days may
be granted by the Planning Commission upon a request from the owner/operator
citing extenuating circumstances beyond his, her or their control in removing
the tower within the initial 90-day period; and
   (H)   In removing the tower the owner/operator shall comply with the
decommissioning plan submitted by the applicant and as approved by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.14) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.290 WISP MOUNTED ON A BUILDING; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A WISP mounted on a building shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   All applicable state construction and electrical codes and local
building permit requirements as well as the manufacturer’s installation
requirements provided they do not conflict with the state and local
requirements.
   (B)   The total height of a building mounted WISP shall not exceed 15 feet
as measured from the highest point of the roof, excluding chimneys, antennas
and other similar protuberances.
   (C)   (1)   The setback for a building mounted WISP shall be a minimum of 15
feet from the property line, public right-of-way, public easement or overhead
utility lines if mounted directly on a roof or other elevated surface of the
building.
      (2)   If the WISP is affixed by any extension to the side, roof or other
elevated surface, then the setback from the property line or public right-of-
way shall be a minimum of 15 feet.
      (3)   The setback shall be measured from the furthest outward extension
of all moving parts.
      (4)   The 15-foot minimum setback requirement may be reduced by the
Building Inspector under either or both of the following circumstances:
         (a)   If the applicant provides a registered engineer’s certification
that the WISP is designed to collapse, fall, curl or bend within a distance
less than the required setback of the WISP; and
         (b)   If the Building Inspector determines that a lesser setback will
not be detrimental to adjoining properties. In making this determination the
Building Inspector shall, at a minimum, take into consideration the type and
location of the building containing the WISP, the type of WISP proposed, the
installation requirements of the WISP and the location of buildings or uses on
the adjacent properties.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed WISP
tower according to the standards for special uses contained in §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter.
         (b)   The Commission may impose reasonable conditions with its
approval of a WISP tower including, but not limited to, a requirement that the
applicant provide a performance guarantee in a form and amount acceptable to
the township for the cost of removing the WISP tower and restoration of the
site and a requirement that the applicant provide regular reports regarding the
maintenance and condition of the tower.
      (2)   Following approval of a WISP by the Planning Commission, the
applicant may proceed to apply for a building permit.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.14) Penalty, see §
154.999
WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (WES)
§ 154.305 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards and procedures by
which the installation and operation of a wind energy system shall be regulated
within the township, in order to promote the safe, effective and efficient use
of wind energy.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.306 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT SOUND. The all-encompassing sound associated with a given
environment, being usually a composite of sound from many sources near and far,
as defined by ANSI S12.9 Part 3.
   APPLICANT. The person, firm, corporation, trust, association, company,
limited liability corporation, or other entity that applies for township
approval under this subchapter, as well as the applicant’s successor(s), assign
(s) and/or transferee(s) to any approved WES. An APPLICANT must have the legal
authority to represent and bind the landowner or lessee who will construct, own
and operate the WES. The obligations regarding a zoning approval for any
approved WES shall be with the landowner and the owner of the WES and jointly
and severally with the owner and operator or lessee of the WES if different
than the landowner.
   INHABITED STRUCTURE. A building or group of buildings occupied on a
temporary or permanent basis including, but not limited to, residential
dwellings, hospitals, motels, hotels, bed and breakfast, homeless shelters,
transitional housing and adult foster care facilities.
   INTERCONNECTED WES. A WES that is electrically connected to the local
electrical power utility system and can provide power to the local electrical
power utility system.
   NACELLE. In a wind turbine, the nacelle refers to the structure that houses
all of the generating components, gearbox, drive train and other components.
   NON-PARTICIPATING PARCEL. A parcel which is not under lease or other
property agreement with the owner/operator of a WES.
   ON-SITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A WES the purpose of which is to provide
energy to only the property where the structure is located, or to adjacent
properties under the same ownership or control as the property where the
structure is located, or by the mutual consent of the owners of adjacent
properties.
   PARTICIPATING PARCEL. A parcel which is under lease or other property
agreement with the owner/operator of a WES.
   ROTOR. An element of a wind energy system that acts as a multi-bladed
airfoil assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic energy directly
from the wind.
   SHADOW FLICKER. Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blade of a WES casting shadows on the ground and stationary objects such as
dwellings.
   SINGLE WES FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. A single WES placed upon a parcel or
parcels with the intent to sell or provide electricity to a site or location
other than the premises upon which the WES is located. The WES may or may not
be owned by the owner of the property upon which the WES is placed.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10, of the
ratio of the root-mean-square sound pressure to the reference pressure of
twenty micropascels, expressed as decibels (dB). Note that, unless expressed
with reference to a specific weighing network (such as dBA), the unit dB shall
refer to an un-weighted measurement.
   STRUCTURE-MOUNTED WES. A WES mounted or attached to an existing structure or
building.
   UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS. A WES designed and constructed to provide
electricity to the electric utility grid.
   WES HEIGHT. The distance from the ground at normal grade to the highest
point of the tip of a rotor blade when the blade is in full vertical position.
   WES SETBACK. The distance from the edge of the base of the tower or
structure upon which the WES is mounted to the nearest lot line. In the case of
multiple parcels utilized for multiple or single WES, the SETBACKS shall be
taken from the outside boundary of the parcels utilized for the WES project.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (WES).
      (1)   Any combination of the following:
         (a)   A mill or machine operated by wind acting on oblique vanes or
sails that radiate from a horizontal shaft;
         (b)   A surface area such as a blade, rotor or similar device, either
variable or fixed, for utilizing the wind for electrical or mechanical power;
         (c)   A shaft, gearing, belt or coupling utilized to convert the
rotation of the surface area into a form suitable for driving a generator,
alternator or other electricity-producing device;
         (d)   The generator, alternator or other device to convert the
mechanical energy of the surface area into electrical energy; and
         (e)   The tower, pylon or other structure upon which any, all or some
combination of the above are mounted.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, a windmill traditionally used only to
pump water shall not be considered a WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.
   WIND FARM. Clusters or arrangements of two or more WES placed upon a lot or
parcel (or upon two or more lots or parcels where used together) with the
intent to sell or provide electricity to a site or location other than the
premises upon which the WES are located. The WES may or may not be owned by the
owner of the property upon which the WES is placed.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.307 WES ALLOWED AS PERMITTED USE.
   Any on-site use wind energy system (including a structure mounted WES) that
is 65 feet or less in total height shall be a permitted use in all zoning
districts, subject to all of the following.
   (A)   The height of the WES with the blade in vertical position shall not
exceed 65 feet.
   (B)   The WES shall be set back from all lot lines a distance that is at
least equal to one and one-half times the height of the WES as measured from
the lot line to the base of the tower and no portion of the WES (including the
guy wire anchors) shall be located within or above the required front, side or
rear yard setback.
   (C)   (1)   A structure mounted WES shall have a distance from the nearest
property line that is at least equal to 1.1 times the height of the WES as
measured from the point of attachment to the structure or building to the top
of the WES with the blade in the vertical position.
      (2)   The blade arcs created by a WES mounted on an existing structure
shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet or be designed so that the blade
or other moving parts do not present a safety hazard.
   (D)   (1)   A permit shall be required to be obtained from the township to
construct and operate an on-site use WES 65 feet or less in total height. A
permit shall be issued after an inspection of the WES by the township or an
authorized agent of the township, and where the inspection finds that the WES
complies with this chapter and also all applicable state construction and
electrical codes, local building permit requirements and all manufacturers’
installation instructions.
      (2)   The WES shall not be operated nor remain on the property unless a
permit has been issued. A copy of the manufacturer’s installation instructions
and blueprints shall be provided to the township.
   (E)   An on-site use WES may provide electrical power to more than one
dwelling unit; provided that, the dwelling units are located on property or
properties that are adjacent to the property or properties on which the WES is
located.
   (F)   Sound levels shall be verified by the manufacturer at the time of
application. The documentation must support that the sound level will not
exceed 43 dBA Leq measured at the property line of the parcel containing the
WES.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.308 WES THAT REQUIRE SPECIAL USE APPROVAL.
   Any WES (including a structure mounted WES) that is taller than 65 feet in
height, wind farms, single WES for commercial purposes and utility grid wind
energy systems may be allowed as a special use only within the Ag-1, Ag-2, C-1,
C-2, C/1, I-1 and I-2 Zoning Districts subject to all of the following
regulations and requirements of this section and also the general special use
review procedures and standards of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter.
   (A)   Site plan requirements. For those WES for which a special use is
required, the following items shall be included with or on the site plan:
      (1)   All requirements for a site plan contained in §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter, including the area and dimensions of the area to be
purchased or leased for the WES;
      (2)   Digital versions of all planning and construction documents
required pursuant to §
154.160 of this chapter. Digital submittals are in addition to paper plans and
do not replace any current submission requirements. Digital versions shall be
submitted in PDF (Adobe Acrobat/Portable Document File) format;
      (3)   A decommissioning plan as required by §
154.310 of this chapter;
      (4)   A location map of the proposed WES sufficient to show the character
of the area surrounding the proposed WES;
      (5)   Location and height of all existing and proposed buildings,
structures, boundary lines, electrical lines, towers, guy wires, guy wire
anchors, security fencing and any other above-ground structures proposed or
existing for the parcel or parcels containing the WES;
      (6)   Distances from the WES structures to all other buildings,
structures, boundary lines and above ground utilities on the parcel or parcels
upon which the WES is proposed to be located;
      (7)   Distance from the proposed WES to the nearest occupied dwelling
unit on a parcel which does not contain the WES;
      (8)   Location of all existing overhead and underground electrical
transmission or distribution lines, located on the lot or parcel(s) upon which
the WES or is proposed to be located, as well as within 300 feet of the
boundaries of the parcel(s). The applicant shall also provide evidence to the
township that easements have been obtained from the property owners for the
construction of the transmission and distribution lines. The applicant shall
also provide as-built drawings to the township of all electrical transmission
lines constructed to serve the WES;
      (9)   Location, height and type of all buildings and structures within
one mile of the exterior boundaries of the lot or parcel where the WES is
proposed to be located;
      (10)   Contour elevations of at ten-foot intervals of the parcel(s) upon
which the WES is proposed to be located;
      (11)   Land uses within one mile of the parcel(s) containing the WES;
      (12)   A description of the routes to be used by construction and
delivery vehicles and of any road improvements that will be necessary in the
township to accommodate construction vehicles, equipment or other deliveries;
      (13)   Access drives to the WES, including dimensions and composition,
with a narrative describing proposed maintenance of the drives;
      (14)   All lighting proposed for the site, including diagrams of lighting
fixtures proposed if requested by the Planning Commission;
      (15)   Security measures proposed to prevent unauthorized trespass and
access;
      (16)   Standard drawings of the structural components of the WES,
including structures, towers, bases and footings. A registered engineer shall
certify drawings and any necessary calculations that show that the system
complies with all applicable local, state and federal building, structural and
electrical codes;
      (17)   The applicant shall provide elevation drawings, detailed computer
and/or photographic simulations and other models and visual aids showing the
wind energy system with all related facilities as they will appear on the
proposed site from vantage points north, south, east and west of the project at
points one mile from the site and at three miles from the site;
      (18)   Maintenance and construction schedule. The applicant shall provide
a written description of the maintenance program to be used to maintain the
WES, including a schedule of types of maintenance tasks to be performed and the
anticipated construction schedule;
      (19)   Additional information as required by §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter, or as may be required by the Planning Commission; and
      (20)   The Planning Commission may waive or modify some of the above
requirements at the request of the applicant if it is determined that those
items would not be needed to properly review the project.
   (B)   Construction standards for WES.
      (1)   Height. The height of a WES for which a special use is required
shall not exceed 500 feet.
      (2)   Setbacks and separation. The following setbacks and separation
requirements shall apply to all WES.
         (a)   Inhabited structures. On a participating parcel, each WES shall
be set back from the nearest inhabited structure a distance of no less than
1,320 feet. Regarding a non-participating parcel, each WES shall be set back
from the nearest inhabited structure a distance of no less than 1,640 feet. A
lesser setback may be approved by the Planning Commission only with written
approval from the owner of the inhabited structure.
         (b)   Special structures and boundaries. A WES shall be setback a
minimum of 1,640 feet from a school, hospital, church, public library, city,
village or adjacent township boundary.
         (c)   Other setbacks. Except as required by division (B)(2) above, a
WES shall be set back from all property lines, road rights-of-way, gas
transmission lines, railroads rights-of-way, communication and electrical lines
a distance of not less than one and one-half times the WES height. For wind
farms, the set back shall be measured from the property lines of non-
participating parcels.
         (d)   Tower separation.
            1.   The separation of one WES from another WES shall be based on:
               a.   Industry standards; and
               b.   Manufacturer certification.
            2.   At a minimum, there shall be a separation between adjacent WES
of not less than three times the rotor diameter of the WES. Documents shall be
submitted to the township by the applicant/manufacturer confirming
specifications for WES separation.
         (e)   Rotor or blade clearance. Blade arcs created by a WES shall have
a minimum of 30 feet of clearance over, above and from any structure, adjoining
property or tree.
         (f)   Visual appearance and lighting. The applicant shall reduce the
visual impact of a WES to the extent possible, utilizing at least all of the
following.
            1.   A WES shall be mounted on tubular towers, painted a non-
reflective, white, off-white or gray color. The appearance of the WES and
buildings shall be maintained throughout the life of the wind energy facility
pursuant to industry standards.
            2.   The design of the WES’s buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening and landscaping that will blend facility components with the natural
setting and the existing environment.
            3.   A WES shall not be artificially lighted, except to the extent
required by the FAA or other applicable authority, or otherwise necessary for
the reasonable safety and security thereof.
            4.   There shall be no advertising on the WES or any of its
components.
         (g)   Certification of compliance. The applicant shall provide
certification to the township that the applicant has complied or will comply
with all applicable county, state and federal laws and regulations including,
but not limited to:
            1.   All applicable state construction and electrical codes and
local building permit requirements;
            2.   Federal Aviation Administration requirements;
            3.   The state’s Airport Zoning Act, Pubic Act 23 of 1950, being
M.C.L.A. Chapter 259, as amended;
            4.   The state’s Tall Structures Act, Public Act 259 of 1959, being
M.C.L.A.
§§ 259.481 et seq. as amended;
            5.   The township’s Airport Overlay Zone;
            6.   Private landing strips in or adjacent to the township; and
            7.   The state’s Public Service Commission and Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission if the WES is an interconnected system.
   (C)   Exception. A WES (except for a structure mounted WES) may be located
on a lawful parcel or parcels that do not have frontage on a public or private
road.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.309 OPERATING STANDARDS FOR ALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   All WES shall comply with all of the following.
   (A)   Sound pressure level.
      (1)   Noise from a wind energy system shall not exceed 43 dBA Leq over a
ten-minute period measured at the property line located closest to the WES for
any adjacent non-participating parcel.
      (2)   Utility grid systems and wind farms shall be subject to the
requirements of this subsection, but the sound pressure level shall be measured
at the property line closest to the WES at the outside boundary of all
participating parcels.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide modeling and analysis that will
demonstrate that the utility grid system or wind farm will not exceed the
maximum permitted sound pressure requirements.
   (B)   Shadow flicker. The allowable shadow flicker measured at the nearest
external wall or walls of inhabited structures shall be limited to a maximum of
20 hours per year. The applicant shall provide evidence to the township that
this requirement will be met.
   (C)   Signal interference.
      (1)   A WES shall not be installed in any location where its proximity
with existing fixed broadcast, retransmission or reception antennas for radio,
television, or wireless phone or other personal communication systems would
produce electromagnetic interference with signal transmission or reception.
      (2)   A WES shall not be installed in any location along the major axis
of an existing microwave communications link where its operation is likely to
produce electromagnetic interference in the link’s operation.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide evidence to the township that these
requirements will be met.
   (D)   Minimization of disruption. The wind energy facility shall be designed
to minimize disruption to farmland activity on both participating and non-
participating parcels.
   (E)   Roads. For each wind energy system, the applicant/owner/operator, the
township and the county’s Road Commission shall agree upon and document
construction routes and public and private road conditions before construction
begins. Any damage to a public road within the township resulting from the
construction, maintenance or operation of a wind energy system shall be
repaired at the applicant/owner/operator’s sole expense as may be required by
the county’s Road Commission or the township.
   (F)   Safety.
      (1)   Each WES shall be equipped with both a manual and automatic braking
device capable of stopping the WES operation in high winds so that the
rotational speed of the rotor blade does not exceed the design limits of the
rotor.
      (2)   To prevent unauthorized access, each WES must comply with at least
one of the following provisions, and more than one if required by the Planning
Commission.
         (a)   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within 12 feet of
the ground.
         (b)   A locked anti-climb device shall be installed and maintained.
         (c)   A tower capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least ten feet high with barbed wire fence.
         (d)   All WES shall have lightning protection.
         (e)   If a tower is supported by guy wires, the wires shall be clearly
visible with colored guards to height of at least ten feet above the guy wire
anchors.
         (f)   The minimum height of the lowest position of the rotor or blade
shall be at least 30 feet above the ground.
   (G)   Signs. Each WES shall have one sign not to exceed four square feet
posted at the base of the tower or, if the structure is fenced, on the fence.
The sign shall include the following information:
      (1)   The words “Warning: High Voltage”;
      (2)   Emergency telephone numbers;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the
operator of the WES; and
      (4)   A WES shall not include any advertising of any kind, except the
nacelle may have lettering that exhibits the manufacturer’s and/or owner’s
identification.
   (H)   Maintenance and annual summary report. Every WES must be kept and
maintained in good repair and condition at all times and shall not pose a
potential safety hazard. The applicant shall keep a record of all maintenance
performed on each WES and any repairs made to and replacement of equipment and
parts for each WES. On or about the anniversary date of the approval by the
Planning Commission of the special land use permit, the applicant shall provide
a summary of this maintenance record to the township’s Zoning Administrator.
   (I)   Underground. All distribution lines from the WES shall be located and
maintained underground, both on the property where the WES will be located and
off-site. The Planning Commission may waive the requirement that distribution
lines for the WES that are located off-site (such as, are not located on or
above the property where the WES will be located) be located and maintained
underground if the Planning Commission determines that to install, place or
maintain such distribution lines underground would be impractical or
unreasonably expensive.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.310 DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   A decommissioning plan shall be submitted by the applicant to the township
for approval. The plan shall consist of a written description of the
anticipated life of the system and facility; a description as to how the useful
life of the system will be determined and who will make this determination; the
estimated cost of decommissioning; the method of ensuring that funds will be
available for decommissioning and restoration of the site; and removal and
restoration procedures and schedules that will be employed if the WES becomes
obsolete or abandoned. The plan shall also describe any agreement with the
landowner regarding equipment removal upon termination of the lease.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.311 REMOVAL AND SITE RESTORATION.
   Upon a determination by the township that a WES should be decommissioned or
that the WES has been abandoned and within 90 days of receipt of written
notification from the township, the owner/operator shall begin to remove any
wind energy system or anemometer tower from the site.
   (A)   All equipment, structures, foundations, transmission lines and access
roads (such access roads that are located on a participating parcel) associated
with the wind energy system including all materials above and below ground
shall be removed from the property, and the site shall be restored to a stable
condition consistent with conditions existing prior the establishment of the
wind energy system. The Planning Commission, however, may allow the access road
to be retained if so requested by the property owner.
   (B)   The restoration process shall comply with all state, county or local
erosion control, soil stabilization and/or runoff requirements or ordinances
and shall be completed within one year of the above noted written notification
from the township.
   (C)   Failure to begin to remove a wind energy system within the 90-day
period provided in this section shall be grounds for the township to remove the
wind energy system or anemometer tower at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.312 REMOVAL COST GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The cost of removal and site restoration is the full responsibility of
the landowner and the applicant and/or owner/operator.
   (B)   In order to provide the greatest possible financial assurance that
there will be sufficient funds to remove each wind energy system and to restore
the site, the following requirements shall be fulfilled before any construction
of a WES(s) by applicant begins:
      (1)   For each wind energy system, the applicant/owner/operator shall
determine an amount of money equal to the estimated removal and restoration
cost. The Planning Commission may require independent verification of the
adequacy of this amount;
      (2)   Such removal and site restoration obligation shall be secured by
the land owner and/or the applicant filing with the township for a surety bond,
letter of credit, or cash deposit with language and terms acceptable to the
township;
      (3)   The removal cost guarantee amount shall be valid throughout the
lifetime of the system, and it shall be adjusted by the applicant/land owner
every five years. The Planning Commission may require independent verification
of the adequacy of this amount. Bonds and letters of credit shall be extended
on a regular basis with expiration dates never less than two years from the
annual anniversary of special use approval.
      (4)   Any money left in the escrow account after complete removal and
site restoration of each wind energy system shall be returned by the township
to the then-owner/operator.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.313 ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNSAFE WES AND ADVERSE IMPACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any wind energy system or anemometer tower that is not operated
for a continuous period of nine months shall be considered abandoned and
subject for removal.
      (2)   Any wind energy system or anemometer tower that is found to present
an imminent physical threat or danger to life or a significant threat of damage
to property shall be shut down immediately and removed or repaired or otherwise
made safe.
   (B)   (1)   A state professional engineer hired by the applicant shall
certify to the township its safety prior to resumption of operation.
      (2)   The owner/operator shall notify the township’s Zoning Administrator
or the township’s designee within 24 hours of any occurrence of tower collapse,
turbine failure, fire, thrown blade or hub, collector or feeder line failure or
injury.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.314 COMPLAINT RESOLUTION PLAN.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit to the township’s Zoning Administrator the
procedures it will use to receive and respond to complaints about its wind
energy system(s) and facilities.
   (B)   Procedures shall include provisions for immediate response to
complaints regarding unsafe wind energy system(s) and serious violations of
this chapter, as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.315 INSPECTION.
   The township shall have the right upon approving any WES to inspect the
premises on which the WES is located at all reasonable times with the
permission of the property owner. The township may hire a consultant to assist
with any such inspections at the applicant’s cost.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.316 CERTIFICATION OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   The applicant/owner/operator and landowner shall indemnify, defend and
hold harmless the township against any and all claims arising out of the
existence, operation or failure of the wind energy system.
   (B)   The applicants/owners/operator and the landowner shall procure
comprehensive general liability, casualty, wrongful acts insurance policies and
any other policies customary to the wind energy system industry. This insurance
shall be in the amount of $5,000,000 per wind energy system, but not to exceed
$100,000,000 in the aggregate if the applicant/owner/operator own(s) more than
one wind energy system in the township. The Planning Commission may adjust
these amounts periodically to reflect inflation.
   (C)   The landowner and the applicant/owner/operator shall maintain these
insurances for the, duration of the construction, operation, decommissioning,
removal and site restoration of the wind energy system. The insurance carrier
shall be instructed to provide the township with certificates of the existence
of such insurances, and shall be instructed to notify the township if such
insurances expire for any reason. Failure of the landowner or the applicant/
owner/operator to maintain these insurances at all times shall result in
termination of the township approval for the WES.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.317 NOISE MONITORING AND COMPLAINT INVESTIGATION AND RESOLUTION.
   The township’s Zoning Administrator shall maintain a noise complaint log.
The Planning Commission shall review this log at least once a year to identify
and address potential adverse noise impacts. During the review process, the
township can require additional sound studies to be prepared by an acoustic
engineer approved by the township.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
§ 154.318 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS; INITIAL APPLICATION AND ON-GOING.
   (A)   For each wind energy system application, the applicant/owner/operator
shall deposit into a township escrow account the amount of $10,000. This escrow
account shall be in addition to the escrow account required by §
154.312 of this chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this joint escrow account is:
      (1)   To reimburse the township for its costs incurred to hire
consultants and experts as the township, at its sole discretion, deems
desirable to examine, evaluate and verify the data and statements presented by
the applicant/owner/operator; and
      (2)   For the life of each wind energy system, to cover the
administrative and legal costs incurred by the township in monitoring and
enforcing the owner/operator’s ongoing compliance with this subchapter as well
as any costs for administering and overseeing any WES removal and restoration
costs under §
154.312 of this chapter.
   (C)   The account shall be managed as follows.
      (1)   Funds can be withdrawn from this account only by the signature of a
township designee.
      (2)   If, at any time, the balance of this account shall fall below
$5,000, the applicant/owner/ operator shall deposit an additional $5,000 into
the account.
      (3)   If, at any time, the balance of this fund shall fall below $5,000
for a continuous period of 30 days, the application shall be considered to have
been withdrawn, or the township approval for the wind energy system may be
terminated.
      (4)   The township’s Zoning Administrator or township designee shall be
charged with monitoring the escrow account and giving quarterly reports to the
Planning Commission. After the wind energy system has been removed and site
restoration has been completed, as defined in this subchapter, any balance
remaining in this account shall be returned to the applicant/owner/operator.
   (D)   Prior to a change in the ownership or operation of a wind energy
system, including but not limited to the sale or lease of that system or the
underlying property, the current land owner or operator shall provide written
notice to the township at least 60 days prior to that change becoming
effective. This notice shall inform the township of the intended transfer of
control of the wind energy system or the underlying property, and shall include
a copy of the instrument or agreement effectuating that transfer. Such an
instrument or agreement shall include an express statement that the new owner
or operator of the wind energy system or the underlying property shall not be
permitted to operate that system until compliance with the terms of this
section, including requirements for continuing security and escrow funds, has
been established.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.15; Ord. 19-3, passed 7-11-2019; Ord. 19-5, passed
8-8-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES)
§ 154.320 PURPOSE.
   The township desires to promote the effective and efficient use of solar
energy systems (SES) subject to reasonable regulations. It is the intent of the
township to permit these systems under certain circumstances by regulating the
siting, design and installation of such systems to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare, and to ensure compatibility of land uses in the vicinity
of solar energy systems.
(Ord. 2020-01 passed - -2020)
§ 154.321 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARRAY. Any number of electrically connected photovoltaic (PV) modules
providing a single electrical output.
   BUILDING INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC (BIPV) SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that
consists of integrating photovoltaic modules into the building structure, such
as the roof, wall or the facade, and which does not alter the relief of the
roof.
   GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is installed
directly in the ground and is not attached or affixed to an existing building
or similar structure.
   ONSITE SOLAR SYSTEM. A solar energy system mounted on a building or on the
ground and located on a parcel containing a principal use. An onsite solar
system is considered an accessory use of the parcel and provides its
electricity or heat only to uses on the parcel.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC (TV) SYSTEMS. A solar energy system that produces electricity
by the use of semiconductor devices, called photovoltaic cells, which generate
electricity whenever sunlight strikes them.
   ROOFTOP SOLAR SYSTEM. A solar energy system in which solar panels are
mounted on top of a roof, either as a flush-mounted system or as modules fixed
to frames which can be tilted.
   SOLAR ACCESS. The right of a property owner to have sunlight shine onto the
property owner’s land.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A solar photovoltaic cell, panel, or array, or solar hot
air or water collector device, which relies upon solar radiation as an energy
source for the generation of electricity or transfer of stored heat.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES).  Solar collectors, controls, energy storage
devices, heat pumps, heat exchangers, and other materials, hardware or
equipment necessary to the process by which solar radiation is collected,
converted into another form of energy, stored, protected from unnecessary
dissipation, and distributed. Solar systems include solar thermal,
photovoltaic, and concentrated solar. This definition does not include small
devices or equipment such as solar powered lawn or building lights which house
both the solar energy generation system and the system which uses that energy
to operate.
   SOLAR FARM. A solar energy system which is the principal use of a parcel and
which is designed and constructed to produce electrical energy for sale back
into an electrical energy grid system and not consumed on site.
   SOLAR PANEL. A device for the direct conversion of solar energy into
electricity.
   SOLAR-THERMAL SYSTEMS. A system, which through the use of sunlight, heats
water or other liquids for such purposes as space heating and cooling, domestic
hot water or heating pool water.
   WALL-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is installed
flush to the surface of the wall of a permanent building.
(Ord. 2020-01 passed - -2020)
§ 154.322 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   This section applies to solar energy systems to be installed and
constructed after the effective date this section.
   (B)   Lawful solar energy systems constructed prior to the effective date of
this section shall not be required to meet the requirements of this section;
provided that any structural change, upgrade or modification to an existing
solar energy system that materially alters the size, location or placement of
such system shall comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   The granting of any permit for a solar energy system does not
constitute solar access rights.
   (D)   A solar energy system shall be constructed and placed so it does not
create a glare for persons off site.
   (E)   A solar energy system shall be properly maintained at all times. Such
maintenance shall include measures to maintain the original appearance of each
structure, ensuring that the solar panels do not leak and that the ground cover
beneath the panels does not become a visual nuisance.
   (F)   Solar energy systems shall be installed, maintained, and used only in
accordance with the manufacturer’s directions. A copy of such directions shall
be submitted to the township prior to installation.
   (G)   Solar energy systems, and the installation and use thereof, shall
comply with the township Building Code and the landowner shall obtain all
applicable county, state and federal permits.
   (H)   Any SES that is not operated for a continuous period of nine months as
determined by the township shall be considered abandoned or non-functional and
subject for removal. Upon a determination by the township that a SES should be
decommissioned and within 90 days of receipt of written notification from the
township, the owner/operator shall begin to remove the SES from the site and
proceed promptly toward completion in accordance with the approved
decommissioning plan.
(Ord. 2020-01 passed - -2020)
§ 154.323 REQUIREMENTS FOR ROOFTOP AND WALL MOUNTED SES.
   (A)   Roof and wall mounted SES are a permitted use in all zoning districts
and are subject to review and approval by the Zoning Administrator. Applicants
shall submit an accurate sketch plan to the Zoning Administrator providing the
location of the building, location of the SES, the height of the SES including
a data sheet and installation instructions from the equipment manufacturer and
other information as requested by the Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall
provide information on the type of solar panel to be used and any hazardous
chemicals contained in the solar panels and measures to prevent leakage.
   (B)   A roof mounted SES shall not project more than five feet above the
highest point of the roof, and in any case, shall not exceed the maximum
building height limitation for the zoning district in which it is located, and
shall not project beyond the eaves of the roof.
   (C)   Each roof and wall mounted SES shall be securely and safely attached
to a building or structure. Proof of the safety and reliability of the means of
such attachment shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator prior to
installation along with information that the roof is capable of supporting the
equipment. Such proof shall be subject to the Zoning Administrator’s approval.
   (D)   Each wall-mounted SES shall not exceed the height of the building wall
to which it is attached.
   (E)   Each wall-mounted SES shall not be mounted on a building wall that
faces upon a public or private street.
(Ord. 2020-01 passed - -2020)
§ 154.324 LEVEL 1 ONSITE GROUND MOUNTED SES.
   A Level 1 Onsite Ground Mounted Solar Energy System is allowed in all zoning
districts as a permitted accessory use subject to review and approval by the
Zoning Administrator according to the following requirements.
   (A)   Occupancy. A Level 1 Onsite Ground Mounted Solar Energy System shall
not occupy an area greater than 5,000 square feet in size.
   (B)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   Applicants shall submit an accurate sketch plan to the Zoning
Administrator illustrating property lines of the parcel, buildings on the
parcel, the proposed setbacks and height of the SES including a data sheet from
the equipment manufacturer and other information as requested by the Zoning
Administrator. Information on the visual impact of the proposed solar farm
using photos or computer-generated images of the project on the site to
demonstrate the appearance of the project from off site.
      (2)   The applicant shall also provide information on the type of solar
panel to be used and any hazardous chemicals contained in the solar panels and
measures to prevent leakage.
   (C)   A ground mounted SES is an accessory structure. A ground mounted SES
is permitted on the same lot as an accessory building but shall not count as
one of the permitted accessory buildings allowed by §
154.252(E) of this chapter. The combined area of an accessory building and SES
shall not exceed the total square footage allowed by 154.252(E) of this
chapter. For example, for a lot of one acre or less, the total area occupied by
the permitted accessory building and a ground mounted SES shall not exceed
1,200 square feet. The area occupied by the SES shall be measured around the
outside boundaries of the solar panels not the solar panel supports.
   (D)   Setbacks. A ground mounted solar energy system shall only be located
in the side and rear yards and shall be set back a minimum of ten feet from all
lot lines and five feet from any structure.
   (E)   Height. The height of a SES shall not exceed ten feet above natural
grade at the time of project approval, as depicted on the sketch plan. The
height shall be measured from the highest point of the panel when oriented at
its maximum tilt to the ground immediately below the panel.
(Ord. 2020-01 passed - -2020)
§ 154.325 LEVEL 2 ONSITE GROUND MOUNTED SES.
   A Level 2 Onsite Ground Mounted Solar Energy System (SES) occupies an area
greater than a Level 1 Onsite Solar Energy System and is allowed in all zoning
districts as an accessory use subject to review and approval of a Special Use
Permit by the Planning Commission in accordance with the requirements and
procedures of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter and also the following requirements.
   (A)   Occupancy. A Level 2 Ground Mounted SES shall not occupy an area
greater than five acres in size.
   (B)   Setbacks. A ground mounted solar energy system shall only be located
in the side and rear yards and shall comply with the setback requirements for
principal buildings for the zoning district in which the SES is located and
shall be five feet from any structure. On a corner lot, the SES shall comply
with the setback requirements for accessory buildings and shall be five feet
from any structure.
   (C)    Height. A ground mounted SES shall not exceed a height of 14 feet
above natural grade at the time of project approval, as depicted on the site
plan. The height shall be measured from the highest point of the panel when
oriented at its maximum tilt to the ground immediately below the panel.
   (D)   Visual impact. Information on the visual impact of the proposed solar
farm using photos or computer-generated images of the project on the site to
demonstrate the appearance of the project from off site.
   (E)   Electrical interconnections. All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes. The applicant shall
provide evidence to the township of approval from the applicable utility
company.
   (F)   Pavement. The portion of the premises on which the array of collector
panel structures is located shall not be paved with asphalt or any other
surface material that is impervious to rainwater.
   (G)   Plantings. Plantings shall be installed around the perimeter of the
parcel or parcels containing the SES. One deciduous or conifer tree for every
25 feet of property line length is required. The Planning Commission may modify
the landscaping requirement depending upon the location of existing plant
material on the site or if additional plantings are needed to buffer existing
land uses. Trees shall be a minimum of four feet tall when planted and remain
in good condition for the life of the project.
   (H)   Above ground transmission lines. Use of above ground transmission
lines for the SES shall be prohibited within the site.
   (I)   Type of panel. The applicant shall provide information on the type of
solar panel to be used and any hazardous chemicals contained in the solar
panels and measures to prevent leakage.
   (J)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan shall be provided as
required by subsection.
   (K)   Kept and maintained in good repair and condition. Every SES must be
kept and maintained in good repair and condition at all times and shall not
pose a potential safety hazard. The applicant shall provide a written
description of the maintenance program to be used to maintain the SES. For
Level 2 SES, the applicant shall keep a record of all maintenance performed and
repairs made to and replacement of equipment and parts. On or about the
anniversary date of the approval by the Planning Commission of the Special Land
Use permit, the applicant shall provide a summary of this maintenance record to
the township’s Zoning Administrator.
   (L)   Removal cost guarantee. The cost of removal and site restoration is
the full responsibility of the landowner and the applicant and/or owner/
operator. In order to provide the greatest possible financial assurance that
there will be sufficient funds to remove the solar energy system and to restore
the site, the following steps shall be followed for Level 2 SES:
      (1)   For each solar energy system, the applicant/owner/operator shall
determine an amount of money equal to the estimated removal and restoration
cost. The Planning Commission may require independent verification of the
adequacy of this amount;
      (2)   Such removal and site restoration obligation shall be secured by
the land owner and/or the applicant filing with the township a surety bond,
letter of credit, or cash deposit with language and terms acceptable to the
township; and
      (3)   The removal cost guarantee amount shall be valid throughout the
lifetime of the system, and it shall be adjusted by the applicant/land owner
every five years. The Planning Commission may require independent verification
of the adequacy of this amount. Bonds and letters of credit shall be extended
on a regular basis with expiration dates never less than two years from the
annual anniversary of special use approval.
   (M)   Transfer of ownership. Prior to a change in the ownership or operation
of a solar energy system, including but not limited to the sale or lease of
that system or the underlying property, the current land owner or operator
shall provide written notice to the township at least sixty days prior to that
change becoming effective. This notice shall inform the township of the
intended transfer of control of the solar energy system or the underlying
property, and shall include a copy of the instrument or agreement effectuating
that transfer. Such an instrument or agreement shall include an express
statement that the new owner or operator of the solar energy collector system
or the underlying property shall not be permitted to operate that system until
compliance with the terms of this chapter, including requirements for
continuing security and escrow funds, has been established.
(Ord. 2020-01 passed - -2020)
§ 154.326 SOLAR FARMS.
   (A)   Solar farms are only allowed in the Ag-1, Ag-2 and industrial zoning
districts subject to review and approval of a special use permit by the
Planning Commission in accordance with the requirements and procedures of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter and also the following requirements.
   (B)   Lot size. The minimum lot size for a solar farm shall be 20 acres. A
parcel containing a solar farm shall not require frontage on a public street.
   (C)   Application Requirements. In addition to the site plan required by §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter, the applicant shall provide all of the following
information to the township:
      (1)   Proof of a lease, deed or purchase agreement for the parcel for the
proposed solar farm;
      (2)   Type of solar panel to be used and any hazardous chemicals
contained in the solar panels and measures to prevent leakage;
      (3)   Name and address of the manufacturer, and model of the solar
panels;
      (4)   Expected energy output and anticipated useful life of the system,
development phases, likely markets for the generated energy, and possible
future expansions;
      (5)   Information on the visual impact of the proposed solar farm using
photos or computer-generated images of the project on the site to demonstrate
the appearance of the project from off site.
      (6)   Maintenance and construction schedule. The applicant shall provide
a written description of the maintenance program to be used to maintain the
SES, and the anticipated construction schedule;
      (7)   Digital versions of all planning and construction documents
required pursuant to
§§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter, Site Plan Review. Digital submittals are in addition
to paper plans and do not replace any current submission requirements. Digital
versions shall be submitted in PDF (Adobe Acrobat/Portable Document File)
format;
      (8)   A decommissioning plan as required by division (D) of this section;
      (9)   Distance from the proposed solar farm to the nearest habitable
dwelling unit on a parcel which does not contain the solar farm;
      (10)   A security plan detailing on-site security provisions which may
include fencing, security guards, video surveillance, and similar measures;
      (11)   A landscaping plan illustrating the number, size, type and spacing
of trees proposed to screen the solar farm from nearby roadways;
      (12)   Additional information as required by §§
154.160 through
154.171 of this chapter, or as may be required by the Planning Commission; and
      (13)   The Planning Commission may waive or modify some of the above
requirements at the request of the applicant if the Commission determines that
those items would not be needed to properly review the project.
   (D)   Decommissioning: The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan to
the township which shall address all of the following:
      (1)   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be initiated
(such as, end of land lease, no power production for nine months, obsolete
equipment and similar circumstances);
      (2)   A description as to how the useful life of the system will be
determined and who will make this determination;
      (3)   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit, structures,
fencing, roads, and building foundations to a depth of three feet below grade;
      (4)   Restoration of property to the condition prior to development of
the solar farm including measures to ensure that soils are not contaminated
during decommissioning;
      (5)   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities;
      (6)   An engineer’s cost estimate for all aspects of the decommissioning
plan;
      (7)    Description of any agreement with the landowner regarding
decommissioning;
      (8)    Provisions for updating the decommissioning plan;
      (9)   A statement signed by the owner or operator that they take full
responsibility for reclaiming the site in accordance with the decommissioning
plan and the special land use permit upon cessation of use; and
      (10)   The Planning Commission may require that the owner or operator
provide a financial guarantee to cover the costs of decommissioning the site in
accordance with division (G) of this section.
   (E)   Additional requirements for solar farms.
      (1)   Safety/access. A security fence shall be placed around the
perimeter of the solar farm with a locked gate. Knox boxes and keys shall be
provided at locked entrances for emergency personnel access. The height and
material of the fence shall be as approved by the Planning Commission depending
upon the location of the facility.
      (2)   The facility shall be designed for interconnection to a public
utility electrical power grid, and shall be operated with such interconnection.
All electrical interconnection or distribution lines shall comply with all
applicable codes. The applicant shall provide evidence to the township of
approval from the applicable utility company. Use of above-ground transmission
lines for the SES shall be prohibited within the site.
      (3)   The portion of the premises on which the array of collector panel
structures is located shall not be paved with asphalt or any other surface
material that is impervious to rainwater.
      (4)   Plantings shall be installed around the perimeter of the parcel or
parcels containing the solar farm. One deciduous or conifer tree for every 25
feet of property line length is required. The Planning Commission may modify
the landscaping requirement depending upon the location of existing plant
material on the site or if additional plantings are needed to buffer existing
land uses. Trees shall be a minimum of four feet tall when planted and remain
in good condition for the life of the project.
      (5)   Setbacks. Solar panels shall be setback a minimum of 50 feet from
all right of way lines and ten feet from all other lot lines except solar
panels shall not be placed closer than 100 from the lot line of another parcel
containing a dwelling unit. There shall be five feet between any separate
structures that comprise a solar farm.
      (6)   Height. A ground mounted SES shall not exceed a height of 20 feet
above natural grade at the time of project approval, as depicted on the site
plan. The height shall be measured from the highest point of the panel when
oriented at its maximum tilt to the ground immediately below the panel.
      (7)   Electrical Interconnections. All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes. The applicant shall
provide evidence to the township of approval of connection from the applicable
utility company.
      (8)   Use of above-ground transmission lines for the SES shall be
prohibited within the site.
      (9)   Maintenance and annual summary report.  Every solar farm must be
kept and maintained in good repair and condition at all times and shall not
pose a potential safety hazard. The applicant shall keep a record of all
maintenance performed and repairs made to and replacement of equipment and
parts. On or about the anniversary date of the approval by the Planning
Commission of the special land use permit, the applicant shall provide a
summary of this maintenance record to the township’s Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Administration costs initial application and ongoing.
      (1)   For each solar energy system application, the applicant/owner/
operator shall deposit into an escrow account with the township the amount of
$5,000. The purpose of this escrow account is:
         (a)   To reimburse the township for its costs incurred to hire
consultants and experts as the township, at its sole discretion, deems
desirable to examine, evaluate and verify the data and statements presented by
the applicant/owner/operator; and
         (b)   For the life of each solar energy system, to cover the
administrative and legal costs incurred by the township in monitoring and
enforcing the owner/operator's ongoing compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   The account shall be managed as follows:
         (a)   Funds can be withdrawn from this account only by the signature
of a township designee;
         (b)   If at any time the balance of this account shall fall below
$1,000, the applicant/owner/operator shall deposit additional funds to restore
the account to a $5,000 balance;
         (c)   If at any time the balance of this fund shall fall below $1,000
for a continuous period of thirty days, the application shall be considered to
have been withdrawn, or the Permit for the solar energy system may be
terminated by the township; and
         (d)   A township designee shall be charged with monitoring the escrow
account and giving quarterly reports to the Planning Commission. After the
solar energy system has been removed and site restoration has been completed,
as defined in this chapter, any balance remaining in this account shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (G)   Removal cost guarantee. The cost of removal and site restoration is
the full responsibility of the landowner and also the applicant and/or owner/
operator. In order to provide the greatest possible financial assurance that
there will be sufficient funds to remove the solar energy system and to restore
the site, the following steps shall be followed:
      (1)   For each solar energy system, the applicant/owner/operator shall
determine an amount of money equal to the estimated removal and restoration
cost. The Planning Commission may require independent verification of the
adequacy of this amount;
      (2)   Such removal and site restoration obligation shall be secured by
the land owner and/or the applicant filing with the township a surety bond,
letter of credit, or cash deposit with language and terms acceptable to the
township; and
      (3)   The removal cost guarantee amount shall be valid throughout the
lifetime of the system, and it shall be adjusted by the applicant/land owner
every five years. The Planning Commission may require independent verification
of the adequacy of this amount. Bonds and letters of credit shall be extended
on a regular basis with expiration dates never less than two years from the
annual anniversary of special use approval.
   (H)   Transfer of ownership. Prior to a change in the ownership or operation
of a solar energy system, including but not limited to the sale or lease of
that system or the underlying property, the current land owner or operator
shall provide written notice to the township at least 60 days prior to that
change becoming effective. This notice shall inform the township of the
intended transfer of control of the solar energy system or the underlying
property, and shall include a copy of the instrument or agreement effectuating
that transfer. Such an instrument or agreement shall include an express
statement that the new owner or operator of the solar energy collector system
or the underlying property shall not be permitted to operate that system until
compliance with the terms of this subchapter, including requirements for
continuing security and escrow funds, has been established.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed - -2020)
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 154.330 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXISTING BUILDING or an EXISTING DWELLING UNIT. A building or dwelling unit
for which a building permit has been issued by the township as of the effective
date of this subchapter.
   EXISTING LOT. A lot that, as of the effective date of this subchapter, meets
at least one of the following conditions:
      (1)   The lot consists of a parcel described by metes and bounds for
which a deed has been recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds, or of a
parcel described by a land contract or memorandum of land contract that has
been recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds;
      (2)   The lot has been assigned its own permanent parcel number by the
county’s Property Description and Mapping Department (or successor agency) and
is individually assessed and taxed on that basis; or
      (3)   The lot consists of a “condominium unit” (in other words, a portion
of a condominium project designed and intended for separate ownership and use
as described in the condominium master deed) located within a “site
condominium” development for which a condominium master deed has been recorded
with the county’s Register of Deeds in accordance with the requirements of the
state’s Condominium Act (Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 et seq.) and other applicable laws and ordinances.
   EXISTING PRIVATE ROAD. A private road or a private road system that is used
to provide access to existing lots, buildings or dwelling units as of the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.331 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; APPLICATION TO EXISTING PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)   After the effective date of this subchapter, a private road shall not
be constructed, extended, improved or relocated, except in accordance with the
minimum standards and requirements of this section. New lots may be created
with the required frontage on an existing private road, to a total of five
lots, without upgrading the private road. If six or more lots are proposed
adjacent to an existing private road, the road shall meet the requirements of §
154.332(F) of this chapter and a private road permit must be obtained under
this subchapter. If an existing private road is proposed to be extended then
the existing portion shall be improved to meet the standards of this
subchapter. The new portion shall also comply with the standards of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Private roads may be permitted in all zoning districts except the Ag-
1 Zone according to the provisions of this subchapter. In the Ag-1 Zoning
District, a private road shall only be permitted if approved by the Planning
Commission as a special use in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter. Such private road, if approved, shall adhere to the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   In order to approve a private road in the Ag-1 Zoning District, the
Planning Commission shall find that the proposed road meets the general
standards of this subchapter and also the following standards.
      (1)   The private road will not be built upon land that is classified as
prime or unique by the United States Department of Agriculture.
      (2)   The private road will not be built on land that is being actively
farmed.
      (3)   The private road shall be setback a minimum of 150 feet from the
limits of active farm land.
      (4)   The use of the private road will not cause an adverse effect on
nearby farm operations and that users of the private road will not be adversely
affected by nearby farm operations.
      (5)   Allowing a private road in the Ag-1 Zoning District will not
adversely affect the long-term plans and development policies of the township.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to access roads
internal to any individual lot or parcel of land that has direct public street
frontage access and is under the control of one person, firm, corporation or
association; provided that, the access road does not provide access to any
abutting lot or parcel of land. Examples of access roads that may be exempted
from the provisions of this chapter include those serving multi-family
dwellings, nursing homes, hospitals, factories, schools, mobile home parks and
shopping centers that are otherwise subject to site plan review and approval
under the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to an existing
private road that provides access solely to existing lots, buildings or
dwelling units, except for those requirements pertaining to names for private
roads, house numbers and minimum lot frontage, as contained herein.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.332 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   A private road shall be located within a private road easement. Such
easement shall not be less than 66 feet in width at any point if it serves
residential, non-commercial or non-industrial uses, or less than 86 feet wide
at any point if it serves a commercial or industrial use. At any dead-end of
such easement, the easement shall widen such that there is a minimum radius of
60 feet for residential, non-commercial or non-industrial use and 75 feet for
commercial and industrial use.
   (B)   A lot shall have frontage on the private road easement that is at
least equal to the minimum lot width required for the zoning district in which
the lot is located.
   (C)   A private road shall intersect and connect to a public road.
   (D)   The private road shall be given a street name that is not the same or
similar to any other street name in the county. A street sign bearing the
street name given the private road meeting County Road Commission standards as
to design, location and maintenance shall be erected and maintained where such
private road adjoins any public road.
   (E)   A private road or more than one private road that forms a connected
private road system shall not contain more than 2,000 lineal feet of roadway
unless another means of ingress and egress is provided that meets the standards
of this chapter. The measurement shall be made from the point where the private
road abuts the public road right-of-way and shall be made along the centerline
of the private roadway to the center of the turnaround radius for each portion
or segment of the private road and the total shall not exceed 2,000 lineal
feet.
   (F)   A private road that serves less than six dwellings or buildings is not
required to be paved but shall have a minimum width of 22 feet with a three-
foot shoulder on each side. The road base shall consist of at least a six-inch
gravel base with a 12-inch sand sub-base. The road shall widen at any dead-end
so there is at least a 40-foot diameter turnaround for non-commercial and non-
industrial roads and 50 feet diameter turnaround for commercial and industrial
roads.
   (G)   A private road that serves six or more dwelling units or buildings
shall be constructed to the standards of the county’s Road Commission for a
local paved road. Notwithstanding that paving requirement, if a private road
lawfully existed and was not paved as of 6-30-2015 and served five parcels or
lots as of that date, one additional lot or building site may be created or
added thereafter to be served by that non-paved private road and that paving
requirement would not be applicable for the resulting sixth lot or parcel
served by that private road if the paving requirement is waived by the Planning
Commission pursuant to a special use approval. In addition to the generally
applicable special use standards contained in §
154.186 of this chapter, the Planning Commission must also find that all of the
following additional standards will be met before such a special use approval
can be granted:
      (1)   Modifications to the existing non-paved private road will result in
the road being improved to be in greater conformity with the private road
requirements contained in this chapter;
      (2)   The existing private road will be improved so as to minimize dust
with regard to the lots and parcels served by the private road as well as the
surrounding neighborhoods;
      (3)   The alterations to the private road will increase safety. In
addition, as modified, the private road will have to be able to accommodate
emergency vehicles more easily and safely;
      (4)   The private road will have to have an adequate turnaround or cul-
de-sac to accommodate turnarounds and emergency vehicles;
      (5)   Without the special use approval, it is unlikely that the private
road would ever be improved or upgraded; and
      (6)   If the special use approval is granted, the applicant must still
appear before the township’s private road committee for final approval.
   (H)   A private road shall not exceed a grade of 10%; provided that, within
30 feet of the intersection of a private road with any other private road or
with any public right-of-way, a private road shall not exceed a grade of 4%.
   (I)   A private road shall be constructed in a manner to provide effective
storm water drainage and to prevent run-off onto adjacent property. If a
private road crosses a natural drainage course, stream or other natural body of
water, the method of crossing (by bridge, culvert or other structure) must be
certified by a registered professional engineer that it complies with
applicable County Road Commission and state requirements.
   (J)   A dwelling unit that derives its primary access from a private road
shall display a house number in a manner so that the number is at all times
readily visible from the private road. The house numbers shall be a minimum of
three inches in height.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27; Ord. 16.01, passed 3-10-2016)
§ 154.333 ROAD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The applicant(s) and/or owner(s) of the proposed private road shall
provide to the township a recordable or recorded road maintenance agreement,
access easement agreement, and deed restrictions that shall provide for the
perpetual private (non-public) maintenance of such roads and/or easements to a
necessary and reasonable standard to serve the parties having an interest in
the private road.
   (B)   These documents shall contain the following provisions:
      (1)   A method of initiating and financing of such road and/or easements
in order to keep the road in a reasonably good and usable condition;
      (2)   A workable method of apportioning the costs of maintenance and
improvements;
      (3)   A notice that if repairs and maintenance are not made, the Township
Board may bring the road up to the design standards required by this subchapter
and assess owners of parcels on the private road for the improvements, plus an
administrative fee in the amount of 25% of the total cost of the improvements;
      (4)   A notice that no public funds of the township are to be used to
build, repair or maintain the private road;
      (5)   Easements to the public for purposes of emergency and other public
vehicles for whatever public services are necessary; and
      (6)   A provision that the owners of any and all of the property using
the road shall refrain from prohibiting, restricting, limiting or in any manner
interfering with normal ingress and egress and use by any of the other owners.
Normal ingress and egress and use shall include use by family, guests,
invitees, tradesmen and others bound to or returning from any of the properties
having a right to use the road.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.334 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   An application to establish, extend, improve or relocate a private
road shall be filed with the township’s Zoning Administrator along with a fee
as set by the Township Board.
   (B)   The application shall contain or be accompanied by the following
information:
      (1)   The name(s) of the owners and any other parties having any legal
interest in the private road and the property across which it is to be
constructed;
      (2)   Permanent parcel number or legal description of the property over
which the private road is to be constructed;
      (3)   A site location map not to scale that shows the location of the
parcel containing the road to surrounding properties and road ways within one-
half mile of the site;
      (4)   A scaled drawing prepared by a registered engineer showing the
precise location; route, elevations, dimensions, specifications and design of
the private road and any proposed extensions of the road, existing or proposed
curb cuts and the location and distance to any public street that the private
road is to intersect;
      (5)   A proposed road maintenance agreement, access easement agreement
and deed restrictions shall also accompany the application; and
      (6)   A driveway permit from the county’s Road Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.335 REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The application, drawings and other required information shall be
forwarded to the Private Road Review Committee (the “Committee”). This
Committee shall consist of two Planning Commissioners appointed by the Chair of
the Planning Commission and the Zoning Administrator. An alternate member from
the Planning Commission shall also be appointed by the Chair.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall upon receipt of all required
information and payment of the required fee, call a meeting of the Committee.
All meetings of the Committee shall conform to the provisions of the Open
Meetings Act, being Public Act 267 of 1976,being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., as
amended.
   (C)   The Committee shall review this information to determine compliance
with the standards and requirements for private roads as contained herein. The
Committee may consult with the township’s Fire Chief, Attorney, Engineer or
Planner as deemed necessary. All members of the Committee shall be present to
review and decide upon the application.
   (D)   If the Committee finds that the application meets the requirements of
this subchapter, it shall approve the application and direct the Zoning
Administrator to issue a permit for the construction of the private road. This
permit shall consist of a stamp noting approval and containing the signature of
the Zoning Administrator and the date of approval. Two copies of the private
road plans shall be stamped for approval, one copy shall be kept by the
applicant, and one by the Township. This construction permit is not a private
road permit and does not authorize the construction of any buildings on the
private road. The construction permit is valid for a period of one year from
the date of approval. If construction of the private road has not commenced
before this date, the permit shall expire. A new permit shall be required
before construction can begin.
   (E)   If the Committee denies the application, the written reasons for
denial shall be provided to the applicant within five working days of the date
of denial.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.336 FINAL COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon completion of construction of the private road, the applicant shall
provide to the Zoning Administrator:
   (A)   A letter from a registered professional engineer that the road has
been constructed in compliance with the approved private road plans; and
   (B)   Documentation that the road maintenance, agreement, access easement
and deed restrictions have been recorded with the county’s Register of Deeds
office.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.337 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon approval of all items required for final compliance, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue a private road permit.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
§ 154.338 PERMITS FOR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A building permit shall not be issued for any principal building,
dwelling or structure that derives its primary access from a private road
unless a private road permit has been issued by the township and the road has
either been completed in accordance with the approved permit or the applicant
for the building permit or owner(s) of the private road right-of-way have
provided the township with cash or irrevocable letter of credit in an amount
determined by the township, to ensure construction of the private road in
accordance with the approved private road construction permit within one year
from the issuance of the building permit. The letter of credit shall contain a
provision that the township shall have the right to access the letter of credit
if such letter is not renewed 30 days before the expiration date of the letter.
   (B)   A private road permit shall not be required for the issuance of a
building permit for a principal building, dwelling or principal building,
dwelling or structure that derives its primary access from an existing lawful
private road as defined herein, except as otherwise provided in §
154.331 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.27)
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 154.350 LOCAL AND APPROVAL.
   An adult-oriented business shall be allowed as a special use in the I-
2 Heavy Industrial Zoning District only if all of the following standards are
satisfied.
   (A)   Adult-oriented businesses shall be allowed only within the in the I-
2 Heavy Industrial Zoning District if approved as a special use.
   (B)   No adult-oriented business shall be located within 500 feet of another
adult-oriented business. For purposes of this division (B) and divisions (C)
and (D) below, the distance between a proposed adult-oriented business and
another adult-oriented business, the boundary of any land in the agricultural
or any residential zoning district or approved as a planned unit development
for residential purposes, or land used for any single-family, two-family or
multiple-family dwelling; township, county or state park; school; library;
licensed childcare facility; playground; church or place of worship, shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest property line of the parcel of
land upon which the proposed adult-oriented business is to be located to the
nearest property line of the parcel of land used for the other adult-oriented
business, the nearest boundary of the land in the agricultural or any
residential zoning district or approved as a planned unit development or a plat
for residential purposes or the nearest property line of the parcel of land
used for a single-family, two-family or multiple-family dwelling; township,
county or state park; school; library; licensed childcare facility; playground;
church or place of worship.
   (C)   No adult-oriented business shall be located on a parcel or lot that is
within 1,500 feet of the boundary of any land in the agricultural or any
residential zoning district, or approved as a planned unit development for
residential purposes.
   (D)   No adult-oriented business shall be located on a parcel or lot within
1,500 feet of any single-family, two-family or multiple-family dwelling; any
township, county or state park; school; library; licensed child care facility;
playground; church or place of worship.
   (E)   No adult-oriented business shall be located within any principal or
accessory building or structure already containing another adult-oriented
business.
   (F)   The proposed use shall conform to all requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located.
   (G)   The proposed use shall be in compliance with all other ordinances of
the township and with all statutes, laws, rules and regulations of the county,
state and federal government and, to the extent required, all governmental
approvals must be obtained.
   (H)   The outdoor storage of garbage and refuse shall be contained, screened
from view and located so as not to be visible from neighboring properties or
the adjacent right-of-way of a public street or private street.
   (I)   Any sign or signs proposed for the adult-oriented business shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter; may not otherwise include
photographs, silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of specified
anatomical areas, specified sexual activities or obscene representations of the
human form; and may not include animated or flashing illumination.
   (J)   Entrances to the proposed adult-oriented business must be posted on
both the exterior and interior walls, in a location clearly visible to those
entering and exiting the business, and using clearly marked lettering no less
than two inches in height stating that:
      (1)   “Persons under the age of 18 are not permitted to enter the
premises”; and
      (2)   “No alcoholic beverages of any type are permitted within the
premises unless specifically allowed pursuant to a license duly issued by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission”.
   (K)   No product or service for sale or gift, or any picture or other
representation of any product or service for sale or gift, shall be displayed
so as to be visible by a person of normal visual acuity from the nearest
adjoining right-of-way of a public street or private street or a neighboring
property.
   (L)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday. All adult-oriented businesses shall remain closed on Sundays
and legal holidays.
   (M)   All off-street parking areas shall comply with this chapter and shall
be illuminated after sunset during all hours of operation of the adult-oriented
business, and until one hour after the business closes. The illumination shall
be designed to provide a minimum level of brightness of one foot candle, with a
three-to-one uniformity ratio. The illumination shall not reflect on and shall
be screened from adjoining properties.
   (N)   Any booth, room or cubicle available in any adult-oriented business,
except an adult motel, that is used by patrons for the viewing of any
entertainment characterized by the showing of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities shall:
      (1)   Be handicap-accessible to the extent required by law;
      (2)   Be unobstructed by any floor, lock or other entrance and exit
control device;
      (3)   Have at least one side totally open to a public, lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view of any occupant at all times from the
adjoining aisle;
      (4)   Be illuminated such that a person of normal visual acuity can, by
looking into the booth, room or cubicle from its entrance adjoining the public
lighted aisle, clearly determine the number of people within; and
      (5)   Have no holes or openings in any side or rear walls not relating to
utility, ventilation or temperature control services or otherwise required by
any governmental building code authority.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.5)
§ 154.351 SPECIAL LAND USE PROCESS.
   Any special use application for an adult-oriented business shall be
processed under the provisions of §§
154.185 through
154.194 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.5)
§ 154.352 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, restaurant or other establishment which
regularly features or displays:
      (1)   Live performances, displays or dancing predominantly characterized
by an emphasis on the exposure of any specified anatomical area or by any
specified sexual activity; or
      (2)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, DVDs, slides, computer
displays, other photographic reproductions or other visual media predominantly
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of any specified
sexual activity or any specified anatomical area.
   ADULT MERCHANDISE STORE. An establishment that emphasizes merchandise that
is predominantly distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to any specified sexual activity or any
specified anatomical area. An establishment emphasizes merchandise that is
predominantly distinguished by its “emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area” if
any one or more of the following applies to the establishment:
      (1)   Twenty-five percent or more of the establishment’s retail display
space (excluding bathrooms, office areas, fitting rooms, eating areas, storage
areas, closets and other non-public areas) is used for the sale of merchandise
that is predominantly distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to any specified sexual activity or any
specified anatomical area;
      (2)   Twenty-five percent or more of the establishment’s visible
inventory is comprised of merchandise that is predominantly distinguished or
characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area;
      (3)   Twenty-five percent or more of the establishment’s gross revenues
are generated by the sale or rental of merchandise that is predominantly
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area;
and
      (4)   The establishment is operated consistently with its being an adult-
oriented business (such as, advertising is directed to an “adults only” market;
the establishment self-imposes or imposes consistent with state or federal law,
prohibitions on minors being present in the establishment and the like).
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with close-circuit television (as distinguished from
commercial cable services), transmissions, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, DVDs, slides, computer displays, other photographic reproductions or
visual media that are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area;
or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent, or allows a tenant or occupant of
a sleeping room to sub-rent the room, for a period of time that is less than
ten hours, if the rental of such rooms accounts for more than 10% of the
establishment’s gross revenues.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business or commercial establishment engaging in
one or more of the following enterprises, uses or activities:
      (1)   Adult cabaret;
      (2)   Adult merchandise store;
      (3)   Adult motel;
      (4)   Adult theater;
      (5)   Escort agency;
      (6)   Nude or semi-nude model studio; or
      (7)   Sexual encounter center.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment
which regularly features live performances predominantly characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure of any specified anatomical area or by any specified
sexual activity or which regularly or primarily shows films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, DVDs, slides, computer displays, other photographic
reproductions or visual media predominantly characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of any specified sexual activity or any specified
anatomical area. This definition includes, without limitation, establishments
which offer individual viewing booths.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service for any consideration on the
premises of an adult-oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract
basis, whether or not the person is denominated as an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said adult-oriented
business. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises or for the
delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration and regardless of who
pays that consideration, agrees to act or offers to act as a companion or date
for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to
privately perform a striptease for another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or entity which furnishes, offers to furnish or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a
fee, tip or other consideration. An ESCORT AGENCY is deemed to be operated in
the location where:
      (1)   A request for an escort is received; or
      (2)   The escort and the person requesting the escort are together.
   MATERIAL. Anything tangible, whether through the medium of reading,
observation, viewing, sound or in any other manner, including, but not limited
to, anything printed or written, any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet,
picture, drawing, pictorial representation, motion picture, photograph, video
tape, video disk, DVD, film, computer display, transparency, slide, audiotape,
audio disk, computer tape, holographic images or any other medium used to
electronically produce or reproduce images, or any mechanical, chemical or
electronic reproduction. MATERIAL includes undeveloped photographs, molds,
printing plates and other latent representational objects whether or not
processing or other acts are required to make the content of the material
apparent. This definition is intended to include material which is the product
of any technology, whether that technology is available on the effective date
of the ordinance that added this definition or becomes available after that
date.
   MERCHANDISE. Material, products and novelties.
   NOVELTY. Any instrument, device or paraphernalia which depicts or describes
any specific anatomical area or any specific sexual act, or which is designed
for use, or commonly used, in connection with specific sexual activities,
excluding condoms and other birth control and disease prevention products.
   NUDITY, NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. The knowing or intentional live display of
a human genital organ or anus with less than a fully opaque covering or a
female’s breast with less than a fully opaque covering of the nipple and
areola. NUDITY, as used in this subchapter, does not include a woman’s breast-
feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or areola is exposed during or
incidental to the feeding.
   NUDE OR SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who displays any
specified anatomical area is provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculpted, photographed or similarly depicted by any other person who pays money
or any form of consideration, but does not include the following:
      (1)   An educational institution funded, chartered or recognized by the
state; or
      (2)   Any modeling session for a local, non-profit organization, that is
not open to the public or to any persons other than members of the
organization, that is for the purpose of instruction in the artistic depiction
in two-dimensional or three-dimensional media of the human form, during which
no specified sexual activities occur and during which the model remains in a
fixed pose.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO OPERATE. To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business.
   OPERATOR. Any person on the premises of an adult-oriented business who
exercises overall operational control of the business or a part of the
business, who can open or close the business to the public, or who causes to
function or who puts or keeps the business open or in operation. A person may
be found to be “operating” or “causing to be operated” an adult-oriented
business regardless of whether that person is an owner or part owner of the
business.
   PATRON. A customer of the adult-oriented business or a person from the
general public, not an employee of the business, who is on the premises to
obtain, receive or view the products, services or performances offered by the
business.
   REGULARLY. Recurring, attending or functioning at fixed or uniform
intervals.
   SEMI-NUDITY or SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the
female breast below a horizontal line across the top of the areola and
extending across the width of the breast at that point, or the showing of the
male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the lower portion of the
human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breasts exhibited in a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard or
similar wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. An establishment, except that which is part of the
practice of and under the supervision and control of a physician, psychologist
or psychiatrist licensed to practice in the state, that offers:
      (1)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons exposes or displays any specified
anatomical area; or
      (2)   The matching and/or exchanging of persons for any specified sexual
activities.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Any or more of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast at or below the top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast;
      (2)   A sex act, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of
activities set forth in divisions (1), (2) or (3) above.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.5)
§ 154.353 COMPLIANCE.
   Each adult-oriented business shall comply with all applicable township
ordinances and codes.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 8.5)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 154.365 PURPOSE.
   In recognition of the growing trend toward mobile home parks and the need
for well-located and properly developed areas to accommodate them, mobile home
park regulations are hereby prescribed for such use with appropriate
construction and site development standards to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of such areas as well as the residents of
adjoining and neighboring premises.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 9.1)
§ 154.366 ELIGIBILITY; REQUIREMENTS.
   A mobile home park must meet all of the following requirements and
standards.
   (A)   Mobile home developments. Mobile home parks are permitted in the R-
4 Medium/High Density Mobile Home Park Zoning District; provided, they are in
conformance with all applicable state laws, rules and regulations governing
mobile home developments, including Public Act 419 of 1976, as amended, being
repealed by M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., and this chapter.
   (B)   Minimum area and maximum densities. Each mobile home park shall be
owned and operated as one entity or on a condominium basis. Mobile home
developments shall contain a minimum of 15 acres.
   (C)   Buffer zones. All mobile home developments shall provide and maintain
a 50-foot setback from any street that borders the mobile home park or
development and a 30-foot buffer zone from any mobile home and any boundary
line of the mobile home park or development. When a buffer strip adjoins any
residential zoning district, the following shall be provided.
      (1)   The buffer strip shall be graded with a continuous berm at least
three feet above the grade elevation at the common property line and depth of
the buffer strip shall be at least 12 feet. The berm need not be provided when
adjacent to a mobile home park district and need only be provided if there is
existing residential usage at the time of construction.
      (2)   All portions of the buffer strip shall be planted with grass,
ground cover, shrubbery or other suitable plant material.
      (3)   A minimum of one deciduous tree, plus one additional deciduous tree
shall be planted for each 30 lineal feet of required buffer strip length.
Required trees shall be planted at approximately 30-foot intervals.
      (4)   A minimum of one evergreen tree, plus one additional evergreen tree
shall be planted for every ten lineal feet of required buffer strip length.
      (5)   A minimum of three intermediate shrubs shall be planted for every
ten lineal feet of required buffer strip length.
   (D)   Minimum lot area. The mobile home park shall be developed with sites
having 5,500 square feet per mobile home unit being served. This 5,500 square
feet may be reduced by 20%; provided that, the individual site shall be equal
to at least 4,400 square feet. For each square foot of land gained through the
reduction of the site below 5,500 square feet, at least an equal amount of land
shall be dedicated as open space.
   (E)   Minimum mobile home size. No mobile home in any mobile home
development shall contain less than 600 square feet of living area.
   (F)   Yard requirements. The front yard of each mobile home development lot
shall be no less than 20 feet as measured from the nearest edge of the street
pavement to the nearest wall of the mobile home. The rear yard of each lot
shall be no less than ten feet. No mobile home shall be within 20 feet of any
other mobile home.
   (G)   Corner lots. Where a lot is bounded by two streets, the front yard
requirement shall be met for each street. No fence or structure over 30 inches
in height and no plantings whatsoever shall be located on any corner lot within
the required front yards. No driveway for the parking of motor vehicles shall
run the length of any front yard on the two front yards on a corner lot.
   (H)   Street requirements. If two-way traffic is to be accommodated, the
street pavement width shall be no less than 24 feet. One-way traffic on a
street is not permitted.
   (I)   Parking. Parking shall be provided in off street parking bays or on
site with two parking spaces for each mobile home and one visitor parking space
for every three mobile home sites. Each parking space shall be no less than
nine and one-half feet by 20 feet in area.
   (J)   Access from major streets. Each mobile home development shall have a
minimum of two access streets; provided, there are more than 100 mobile homes.
If two access streets are required, they must be at least 150 feet apart.
   (K)   Signs. A maximum of one identification sign is allowed at each access
point to the mobile home development. Each such sign shall not exceed 36 square
feet in area and shall not be illuminated by any light source other than a
continuous indirect white light. In those cases where signs are intended to be
read from both sides, the combined total area of both sides when combined shall
not exceed 72 square feet.
   (L)   Sales prohibited. The business of selling new and/or used mobile homes
as a commercial operation in connection with the operation of a mobile home
development is prohibited. New or used mobile homes located on lots within the
mobile home development to be used and occupied within the mobile home park may
be sold by a licensed dealer and/or broker. This section shall not prohibit the
sale of a new or used mobile home by a resident of the mobile home development;
provided, the development permits the sale.
   (M)   Underground utilities. All public and private utilities shall be
installed underground.
   (N)   Site improvements. Each mobile home shall be provided with a
continuous pad of four inches thick concrete running the full length and width
of the mobile home or pier at least 42 inches deep below grade. Each site shall
be equipped with anchors or tie-down equipment meeting the requirements of an
approved Construction Code anchoring system. Skirting shall be installed along
the base of each mobile home sufficient to hide the undercarriage and supports
from view and shall meet the requirements of the rules of the Mobile Home
Commission.
   (O)   Sidewalks. Paved sidewalks shall be provided on one side of main
collector streets within the mobile home development. The sidewalks shall be a
minimum of three feet in width and be adjacent to each street.
   (P)   Streets and parking areas. All street and parking areas in a mobile
home development shall be hard surfaced with either Huron concrete or
bituminous concrete.
   (Q)   Refuse disposal. Each mobile home development shall provide an
effective system of garbage and rubbish storage, collection and disposal in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the state’s Department of Public
Health.
   (R)   Lighting. Each mobile home development shall be provided with
sufficient lighting to meet the rules of the Mobile Home Commission.
   (S)   Central antenna. Each mobile home development may have a master under
ground television antenna system. Exterior television and radio reception and
transmission antennas and towers are not permitted on individual mobile homes
or on individual mobile home sites.
   (T)   Ground cover. All exposed ground surfaces in the mobile home
development, in order to prevent erosion, must be sodded, seeded or covered
with ornamental stone and shall be in accordance with the county’s soil erosion
criteria.
   (U)   Drainage. In the event a storage drain system for water leaving the
mobile home park is necessary, construction of storm drainage systems shall be
in accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the county’s
Drain Commissioner. All proposed storm drainage construction plans for such
systems for water leaving the mobile home park shall be approved by the
county’s Drain Commissioner or the Department of Public Health and shall be in
accordance with all the rules and regulations thereof.
   (V)   Storage areas. No storage of any personal property, except licensed
operable motor vehicles, shall be stored outside or under any mobile home.
Storage sheds may be utilized for any such storage, but need not be supplied by
the owner of the mobile home development.
   (W)   Recreation vehicle storage. The storage or parking of recreational
vehicles, motor homes, boats, snowmobiles or other vehicles or items ordinarily
towed, driven or used for a special purpose, if storage or parking of such is
permitted in the mobile home park, shall be in accordance herewith. The storage
of the vehicles or items in the mobile home development is specifically
prohibited, except in the storage area. The storage area shall be screened by
solid-type fence five feet in height around its perimeter or by some other
similar screening device.
   (X)   Open space.
      (1)   Each mobile home park shall include an open space area equal in
size to no less than 25,000 square feet or 2% of the gross acreage, whichever
is greater.
      (2)   All open space areas shall be centrally located, well-drained and
accessible to all residents of the mobile home park.
   (Y)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed a height of 35 feet.
   (Z)   Site development plan. Prior to the granting of a zoning permit, a
site plan shall be submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission showing
that the proposal meets all the requirements of this chapter and the
requirements of the Mobile Home Commission.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 9.2) Penalty, see §
154.999
SIGNS
§ 154.380 SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      BILLBOARD. An outdoor sign providing displays or display space for
general off-premises advertising. Such signs are generally designed so that the
copy or poster on the sign can be changed frequently and the advertising space
is for lease.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign placed upon or supported by the ground
independently of any other structure, including a pole, monument or ground
sign, but not including a billboard as that term is defined herein.
      NIT. A unit of illuminative brightness equal to one candela (12.5 lumens)
per square meter, measured perpendicular to the rays of the source.
      OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, product,
service, entertainment or attraction sold, offered, created, furnished, or
conducted at a location other than the premises on which the sign is erected.
      READER BOARD SIGN. One of the following.
         (a)   MANUAL. A sign on which the letters or pictorials are changed
manually.
         (b)   ELECTRONIC READER BOARD/DIGITAL DISPLAY SIGN. A sign or portion
thereof that displays electronic, pictorial or text information in which each
alphanumeric character, graphic or symbol is defined by a small number of
matrix elements using different combinations of light emitting diodes (LEDs),
fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination devices within the display
area. Such signs include computer programmable, microprocessor controlled
electronic displays.
         (c)   MULTI-VISION SIGN. Any sign composed in whole or in part of a
series of vertical or horizontal slats or cylinders that are capable of being
rotated at intervals so that partial rotation of the group of slats or
cylinders produces a different image or images.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, plastic,
cardboard, wallboard, plywood, or other like material without a permanent
foundation or otherwise permanently affixed to the ground or a building.
      VIDEO DISPLAY SIGN.
         (a)   A sign that changes its message or background in a manner or
method of display characterized by motion or pictorial imagery, which may or
may not include text and depicts action or a special effect to imitate
movement, the presentation of pictorials or graphics displayed in a progression
of frames that give the illusion of motion, including, but not limited to, the
illusion of moving objects, moving patterns or bands of light, or expanding or
contracting shapes, not including electronic changeable copy signs.
         (b)   VIDEO DISPLAY SIGNS include projected images or messages with
these characteristics onto buildings or other objects.
      WALL SIGN. A sign fastened to the window or wall of a building or
structure in such a manner that the window or wall becomes the supporting
structure for, or forms the background surface of, the sign or a sign painted
directly on the wall of the structure.
   (B)   No sign or billboard shall be erected, maintained or used in any
zoning districts, except those that meet the following requirements.
      (1)   All zoning districts.
         (a)   All signs (except government signs) shall be on private
property.
         (b)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where it
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device. No rotating or moving beam, strobe, beacon or
flashing illumination shall be permitted. No exterior portion of a sign shall
move or rotate.
         (c)   Illuminated signs shall be lighted in a manner such that no
illumination source is directly visible beyond the property lines of the lot
upon which the sign is located.
         (d)   A zoning permit shall be required for the erection, construction
or alteration of any sign exceeding 16 square feet in area and for all
billboards.
      (2)   Residential and agricultural zones.
         (a)   One temporary, unlighted sign not to exceed a total of eight
square feet during the time real property is offered for sale or for lease, or
for a period of 15 days not more frequently than one time in any three months.
There shall be at least 30 days between each such interval and only three
temporary signs are allowed for each parcel of property.
         (b)   One permanent sign that may include a bulletin board not to
exceed 32 square feet in area, for the following uses: apartment house;
cemetery; church; educational facility; golf course; mobile home park;
recreational subdivision; or other public or semi-private institution.
         (c)   Said sign shall not exceed a height of ten feet above grade and
shall have a minimum setback of ten feet.
         (d)   Off-premises signs are prohibited in the residential and
agricultural zones.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial zones.
         (a)   Freestanding signs.
            1.   One freestanding sign shall be allowed for each use where
setbacks permit; provided that, where there are multiple uses upon any one
parcel, the total square footage of all sign area shall not exceed 50% more
than that which is permitted herein for one sign; provided further that,
whenever there are two or more uses, they shall use the same sign pole, pylons
or other supports and shall be governed hereby.
            2.   Each freestanding sign shall not exceed a maximum of two sides
upon which advertising matter may appear.
            3.   Freestanding signs may have an area not to exceed 64 square
feet, except a freestanding sign fronting a state divided highway or a street
or road having four or more lanes, excluding turning lanes, may have a sign
area not to exceed 128 square feet; provided, however, where the lineal feet of
lot frontage exceeds 160 feet, the sign may exceed 64 square feet by two square
feet for every five feet of additional lineal lot frontage over 160 feet
subject to a maximum of 128 square feet. In addition, a sign's area may be
increased one square foot for each additional foot it is set back from the
minimum setback requirement up to a maximum of 160 square feet. This formula
shall apply to each side of the sign.
            4.   Freestanding signs shall be at least ten feet from street
rights-of-way and at least ten feet from the nearest adjoining property line,
except that on corner lots or parcels, freestanding signs shall be at least 15
feet from all street rights-of-way and at least ten feet from the nearest
adjoining property line.
            5.   Where the property upon which a sign is located abuts a
resident zone on the side, the side yard required in a residential district
shall be maintained in the commercial zone and the sign shall not be placed any
closer to the lot line than that required distance for a side yard in the
residential zone.
            6.   The design of freestanding signs over 25 feet in height shall
bear a seal of a licensed professional engineer or architect and in no case
shall the sign have an overall height exceeding 35 feet.
         (b)   Wall signs.
            1.   Wall signs shall be attached to buildings and parallel with
the side upon which they are attached.
            2.   Wall signs shall not exceed an area greater than 10% of the
area of the side of the building upon which they are attached; except that, a
wall sign on any building may have an area of 48 square feet.
            3.   Wall signs shall not be higher than four feet above the roof
line of buildings and must be incorporated into the building architecture as an
integral part.
            4.   A wall sign may be placed upon each side of a building; but in
no case shall there be more than four wall signs in total. However, no such
sign shall face towards a residential district unless the building and the
residential district are separated by a public street.
            5.   Where there are multiple uses on one parcel or lot of
property, each use may have only two wall signs, and the total area of all
signs may not exceed 10% of the area of the side of the building on which they
are placed.
         (c)   Gasoline service stations, automobiles sales area and garages
may display the following signs, in addition to the foregoing signs:
            1.   Two temporary signs may be located inside the property line.
Each sign may not exceed nine square feet in area;
            2.   Signs or lettering displayed over individual entrance doors or
bays; and
            3.   Customary lettering; insignias that are a structural part of
the gasoline pump and non-illuminated credit cards.
         (d)   In addition to the signs authorized under division (B)(3)(f),
one temporary sign is permitted for each use or parcel of land during the time
in which a property is offered for sale or lease. Such signs may not exceed
nine square feet in area: and shall be removed within six months. The Board of
Appeals may grant one extension of six months.
         (e)   Shopping center signs.
            1.   Shopping center signs may have only two permitted commercial
wall signs pertaining to each on-premises individual use and one freestanding
sign.
            2.   Such wall signs and freestanding signs of a shopping center
shall comply in all other respects to the provisions of this chapter applying
to commercial and industrial districts.
         (f)   Temporary signs are permitted in the commercial zone upon
approval by the Zoning Administrator under the following conditions only. No
temporary sign shall:
            1.   Be placed on any premises for a period of more than 15 days
nor more frequently than one time in any three months. There shall be at least
30 days between each such interval and only one temporary sign is allowed for
each parcel of property;
            2.   Exceed 60 square feet of area on any one side including
border; and
            3.   Be placed within 25 feet of the edge of the pavement, but in
no case within the road right-of-way or in any location that will obscure
visibility of ingress or egress to and from property.
         (g)   The required zoning permit fee for signs are listed in the
township's schedule of fees.
         (h)   Billboards.
            1.   No billboard shall be permitted unless it complies with all of
the following regulations:
               a.   No billboard shall be erected at any time when there are
three or more billboards in the township.
               b.   Billboards shall be permitted on property fronting on M-37
and located within the C-1 General Commercial District or the C-2 Highway
Commercial District. Billboards may be located on such property only within 100
feet of the M-37 right-of-way and in compliance with all other regulations of
this section.
               c.   Each billboard shall be located a minimum distance of 1,000
feet from any other billboard on either side of M-37. For purposes of this
division, the distance between billboards on opposite sides of M-37 shall be
measured as the distance between the points at which lines drawn perpendicular
to M-37 from the location of each billboard intersect with a line along the
center of M-37.
               d.   Each billboard shall be located a minimum distance of 100
feet from all freestanding signs (other than billboards) and a minimum distance
of 30 feet from all buildings.
               e.   Each billboard shall be located a minimum distance of 200
feet from a residential zoning district, the Ag-2 Agricultural District, and
any existing residence.
               f.   Each billboard shall have a minimum setback of five feet
from the public right-of-way and a minimum setback of ten feet from all side
lot lines.
               g.   The surface display area of a sign panel on a billboard
shall not exceed 300 square feet.
               h.   No billboard shall contain more than one sign panel visible
from the same direction of traffic. No billboard shall contain more than two
sign panels.
               i.   The height of a billboard shall not exceed 35 feet above
the grade of the ground on which the billboard sits or the grade of the
abutting roadway, whichever is higher.
               j.   A billboard may be illuminated provided such illumination
is concentrated on the surface of the billboard and is so located as to avoid
glare or reflection onto any portion of an adjacent street or highway, the path
of oncoming vehicles, or any adjacent premises. No billboard shall have
flashing or intermittent lights nor shall the lights be permitted to rotate or
oscillate.
               k.   No billboard shall be located on top of, attached to, or
otherwise suspended above the roof of, any building.
               l.   Billboards shall comply with division (B)(1) above.
            2.   A billboard shall not be considered a "freestanding sign"
under this division (B)(3) and shall not be permitted except as provided in
this division (B)(3)(h).
         (i)   Reader board signs. All lawful wall and freestanding signs may
include a reader board sign subject to the following regulations.
            1.   For signs that are 50 square feet or less in area, the reader
board shall consist of not more than 75% of the total allowable sign area. The
area encompassing the reader board sign shall be considered part of the wall or
freestanding sign for purposes of size limitations.
            2.   For signs that exceed 50 square feet in area, the reader board
shall not exceed 50% of the total allowable sign size. The area encompassing
the reader board sign shall be considered part of the wall or freestanding sign
for purposes of size limitations.
            3.   For electronic reader board/digital display signs and multi-
vision signs, the following requirements shall apply.
               a.   The sign shall not have any scrolling, animated, moving or
flashing text displays or images.
               b.   The dwell time, defined as the interval or duration of each
individual message between changes of messages, shall be at least ten seconds
long and a change of message must be accomplished within one second or less.
The dwell time shall not include the one second or less time it takes to change
the message.
               c.   Such sign shall not: be brighter than is necessary for
clear and adequate visibility; be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair
or interfere with the vision of a motor vehicle driver with average eyesight or
to otherwise interfere with the driver's operation of a motor vehicle; and/or
be of such intensity or brilliance that it interferes with the effectiveness of
an official traffic sign, device or signal. In order to ensure compliance with
the above requirements, an electronic reader board or digital display sign
shall not exceed a maximum illumination of 5,000 nits (candelas per square
meter) during daylight hours and a maximum illumination of 500 nits (candelas
per square meter) between dusk to dawn as measured at the sign's face at
maximum brightness.
            4.   An electronic reader board/digital display sign may serve as a
window sign, but shall not exceed more than 25% of the area of the window.
            5.   Video display signs are prohibited in all zoning districts.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 10.1; Ord. 23-6, passed - -2023, § 2; Ord. 24-3,
passed 9-12-2024, § 1)
§ 154.381 PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is intended to regulate the type, number, physical
dimensions, erection, placement and maintenance of signs in the township.
   (B)   Its purpose and intent are to:
      (1)   Protect, promote and further the public peace, health and safety of
residents, property owners and visitors;
      (2)   Prevent, eliminate or minimize traffic hazards and pedestrian
accidents caused by signage that obstructs vision or views, distracts or
confuses motorists, or is improperly secured or constructed;
      (3)   Protect the public’s ability to identify establishments and
premises;
      (4)   Protect the natural beauty and distinctive character of the
township;
      (5)   Protect commercial, business, office and industrial districts and
areas from visual chaos and clutter;
      (6)   Provide an environment that fosters the reasonable growth and
development of business and commerce;
      (7)   Protect and enhance property values; and
      (8)   Balance the individual rights of property owners to communicate
their message with the public’
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 10.2)
ZONING AGREEMENTS; CONDITIONAL REZONINGS
§ 154.395 GENERAL.
   (A)   The Township Board recognizes that there are certain instances where
it would be in the best interest of the township, as well as advantageous to
property owners seeking a change in zoning boundaries, if certain conditions
and limitations could be proposed by an applicant as part of an application for
a rezoning.
   (B)   Therefore, it is the intent of this subchapter to provide a process by
which an applicant seeking a change in zoning districts may propose a zoning
agreement, with conditions and commitments attached thereto, as part of the
application for the requested rezoning.
   (C)   These provisions shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.396 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REZONING OFFER. Conditions proposed by the applicant and approved by the
township that are processed as part of an approval under this section. These
conditions shall constitute permanent requirements for and in connection with
the development and/or use of the property approved with a zoning agreement.
   ZONING AGREEMENT. A written agreement offered by the applicant and approved
and executed by the applicant and the township and recorded with the county’s
Register of Deeds, incorporating the rezoning offer along with any requirements
necessary to implement the rezoning offer. When necessary, the ZONING AGREEMENT
shall also include and incorporate, by reference, a site plan that illustrates
the implementation of the rezoning offer. This plan shall not replace the
requirement for a site plan or other approvals that may be required by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.397 ELIGIBILITY.
   An applicant for rezoning may submit a proposed zoning agreement with an
application for rezoning.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.398 ZONING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The zoning agreement shall set forth the rezoning offer and shall
include those terms necessary to implement the agreement. In addition, the
zoning agreement shall include the following acknowledgments and understandings
that:
      (1)   The zoning agreement and the rezoning offer were proposed
voluntarily by the applicant, and that the township relied upon the agreement
and may not grant the rezoning without the rezoning offer and terms spelled out
in the zoning agreement;
      (2)   The zoning agreement and its terms and conditions are authorized by
all applicable state and federal laws and constitutions, and that the zoning
agreement is valid and was entered into on a voluntary basis, and represents a
permissible exercise of authority by the township;
      (3)   The property shall not be developed and/or used in any manner that
is not consistent with the zoning agreement;
      (4)   The approval and the zoning agreement shall be binding upon the
property owner and the township, and their respective heirs, successors,
assigns, receivers or transferees; and
      (5)   If a rezoning with a zoning agreement becomes void in accordance
with the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended, no
development shall take place and no permits shall be issued unless and until a
new zoning district classification for the property has been established or a
new rezoning with a zoning agreement has been approved.
   (B)   Each of the requirements and conditions in the zoning agreement
represents a necessary and reasonable measure which, when considered with all
other conditions and requirements, is roughly proportional to the increased
impact or other condition created by the uses, activities or conditions
represented in the approved rezoning and zoning agreement, taking into
consideration the changed zoning district classification and the specific use
(s), structures, activities or conditions authorized.
   (C)   No part of the zoning agreement shall permit any activity, use,
structure or condition that would otherwise violate any requirement or standard
that is otherwise applicable in the new zoning district.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.399 REZONING OFFER.
   (A)   The zoning agreement shall specify the rezoning offer and any
requirements necessary to implement it. However, the rezoning offer may not
authorize uses or developments of greater intensity or density, and/or which
are not allowed in the new zoning district; nor may any variances from height,
area, setback or similar dimensional requirements in this chapter be allowed
unless a variance has been previously granted by the ZBA pursuant to the
requirements of §§
154.440 through
154.449 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any uses proposed as part of a zoning agreement that would otherwise
require approval of a special use permit and/or site plan shall be approved as
required in this chapter prior to establishment of or commencement of
development of the use.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.400 APPLICATION, REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   An application for rezoning shall be the same as specified in the
Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3101 et seq. In addition to the required
materials listed, a zoning agreement in a recordable format acceptable to the
township shall be submitted, along with any plans necessary to illustrate the
rezoning offer.
   (B)   The application may be amended during the process of township
consideration; provided that, any amended or additional rezoning offers are
entered voluntarily by the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   The zoning agreement shall be reviewed by the Township Attorney
prior to the required Planning Commission public hearing. See §
154.424 of this chapter.
      (2)   The Township Attorney shall determine that the zoning agreement
conforms to the requirements of this section and the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended, and shall confirm that the zoning agreement is
an a form acceptable for recording with the county’s Register of Deeds.
   (D)   An escrow fee deposit may be required by the township to cover any and
all costs incurred for addressing the zoning agreement request.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.401 APPROVAL.
   (A)   If the rezoning and zoning agreement are approved, the zoning
classification of the rezoned property shall consist of the district to which
the property has been rezoned, plus a reference to the zoning agreement. The
zoning map shall specify the new district, plus a small letter “a” to indicate
that the property is subject to a zoning agreement (in other words, “Ala”). The
Township Clerk shall maintain a listing of all properties subject to zoning
agreements and shall provide copies of the agreements upon request.
   (B)   Upon rezoning, the use of the property in question shall conform to
all of the requirements regulating use and development within the new zoning
district as well as the zoning agreement; however, the more restrictive
requirements of the zoning agreement shall apply, and the zoning agreement
shall supersede all inconsistent regulations otherwise applicable under this
chapter.
   (C)   The approved zoning agreement shall be recorded with the county’s
Register of Deeds by the applicant with proof of recording provided to the
township.
   (D)   Prior to development, a site plan shall be approved in accordance with
this chapter, if otherwise required.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.402 CONTINUATION.
   (A)   Provided that, all development and/or use of the property in question
is in compliance with the zoning agreement, a use or development authorized
under the agreement may continue indefinitely; provided that, all terms of the
rezoning offer and the zoning agreement continue to be adhered to.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the zoning agreement at any time after approval
may constitute a breach of agreement and further use of the property may be
subject to legal remedies available to the township.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
§ 154.403 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   During the initial two-year period, or during any extension granted by
the township as permitted above, the township shall not add to or alter the
rezoning offer in the zoning agreement.
   (B)   The zoning agreement may be amended after the expiration of the
initial two-year period and any extensions, in the same manner as was
prescribed for the original rezoning and zoning agreement.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 4.31)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.415 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator, who is appointed by the Township Board.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.1)
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and, in so doing, shall perform the following
duties.
      (1)   Issue permits. All applications for zoning permits shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator, who may issue such permits and
certificates of occupancy when all applicable provisions of this chapter (and
other applicable township ordinances) have been met and approval has been
granted by the proper body or official.
      (2)   Record applications. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain and
keep in an orderly, accessible manner files of all applications for all of the
above permits and for variances, and shall keep records of all such permits and
variances issued. These shall be filed at the township office and shall be open
to public inspection. Copies shall be furnished at cost upon the request of any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the property involved.
      (3)   Inspections. The Zoning Administrator shall be empowered to make
inspections of buildings or premises in order to properly carry out the
enforcement of this chapter.
      (4)   Cancellation of zoning permits, special use permits and variances.
With proper notice given, the Zoning Administrator shall have the power to
revoke or cancel any permit in case of failure or neglect to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter, or in case of any false statement or
misrepresentation made in the application, the provisions of §
154.999(A) of this chapter, violations shall be invoked. Upon such revocation,
all further construction activities and usage shall cease upon the site, other
than for the purpose of correcting the violation.
      (5)   Changes. Under no circumstances is the Zoning Administrator
permitted to make changes to this chapter, nor to vary the terms of this
chapter while carrying out the duties prescribed herein. It shall be the
responsibility of the Township Board to assure that the Zoning Administrator
enforces the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Authorization. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to pursue
enforcement actions that include, but are not limited to, issuing and pursuing
municipal civil infraction citations/tickets.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.3)
§ 154.416 [RESERVED].
§ 154.417 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   Prior to the construction, physical development or razing of a proposed new
or expanded use, structure or building, or the moving of any structure, or the
restoration and structural improvement (other than normal repairs and minor
improvements) of any existing use or structure, or the conversion from one use
to any other use, a zoning permit shall first be obtained from the township. An
application for a required zoning permit must be made to the Zoning
Administrator.
   (A)   Contents of application. Among the information to be supplied by the
applicant and that shall constitute the application package for a zoning
permit, the following shall be included:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant or applicants;
      (2)   Location, shape, area and dimension of the lot, and of the proposed
structure or improvement (shown on a site plan);
      (3)   Description of proposed use and of the building (dwelling,
structure, barn, garage and the like), structure or improvement;
      (4)   The proposed number of sleeping rooms, dwelling units, occupants,
employees, customers and other users;
      (5)   The yard, open space and parking space dimensions (as shown on a
site plan);
      (6)   A site plan, where required; and
      (7)   In the case where the current use is commercial or industrial, not
publicly-sewered and the application is to change, convert, add or expand such
commercial or industrial use, a statement from the county’s Health Department
must be submitted to the township certifying that the present on-site septic
disposal system is adequate to meet the needs of the changed, converted, added
or expanded use after development.
   (B)   Fee. A fee or fees as may be set by the Township Board shall accompany
any plans or applications in order to defray the cost of administration and
inspection.
   (C)   General procedural steps.
      (1)   Upon submission of an application, the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   Reviews the application package:
            1.   To make sure that it is the proper application for the zoning
action requested;
            2.   To see that all required information is submitted; and
            3.   To determine conformance with zoning regulations, unless
waived by variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (b)   Takes one or more of the following preliminary actions:
            1.   Requests from the applicant that any omitted or pertinent and
necessary information now be submitted;
            2.   Forwards the matter to the appropriate township commission or
board for any applicable zoning review or approval; and
            3.   Makes a site inspection to verify accuracy of the application
and to gather additional information.
      (2)   Upon approval of a zoning action required by a township body and of
any additional requirements or conditions that may be needed, the Zoning
Administrator shall approve a zoning permit, one copy of the zoning permit
shall be returned to the owner or applicant. A performance bond or other
security may be required to ensure compliance with any imposed or proposed
public improvements, requirements, specifications and conditions.
   (D)   Denial of zoning permit. If the application for a zoning permit is
denied by the Zoning Administrator, the reason or cause for denial shall be
stated in writing.
   (E)   Validity. A zoning permit shall be valid for one year. A valid zoning
permit is eligible for one additional one-year extension granted by the Zoning
Administrator as a reasonable length of time within which to begin
construction.
   (F)   Inspection. At least one site inspection by the Zoning Administrator
must be held before development.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.4)
§ 154.418 [RESERVED].
§ 154.419 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to occupying a new structure, using land in a different
intensity than before, or occupying an existing structure or parcel or property
with a new type of use other than what previously existed, a certificate of
occupancy must be obtained from the township.
      (2)   The certificate of occupancy is granted after an inspection and is
intended to ensure zoning compliance.
   (B)   The certificate of occupancy is intended to make sure that:
      (1)   After construction, the newly developed structure is the one that
has been approved;
      (2)   Before occupancy, a new use is the same as the use that was
approved; and
      (3)   Both structure and use comply with all zoning requirements and any
conditions previously imposed.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.6)
§ 154.420 GENERAL PROCEDURAL STEPS.
   (A)   Upon notification by the applicant to the Zoning Administrator that
the structure and/or use is ready for inspection, the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Shall contact the applicant to establish a mutually agreed upon
date and time for inspection;
      (2)   Researches and reviews any known records relating to the site in
question; and
      (3)   Inspects for compliance with zoning requirements and with any
previously-imposed conditions.
   (B)   Upon inspection, the Zoning Administrator takes one of the following
actions:
      (1)   Issues the certificates of occupancy (or refers the matter to the
Building Inspector);
      (2)   Delays issuance subject to completion of alterations necessary to
achieve full compliance and follow-up inspection; or
      (3)   Denies the certificate of occupancy in writing based on inspection
findings of non-compliance with this chapter and initiates enforcement action
pursuant to ordinance requirements.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.7)
§ 154.421 PERFORMANCE BONDING FOR COMPLIANCE (PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE).
   (A)   General. Upon authorizing any zoning permit, PUD approval, site plan
approval, special use approval or variance, the body or official that
administers the respective request, as designated by this chapter, may require
that a cash or surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit be submitted to:
      (1)   Ensure compliance with any and all the requirements, specifications
and conditions imposed with such permit, approval or variance; and
      (2)   To ensure the discontinuance of a temporary use by a stipulated
time.
   (B)   Amount of bond. The amount of security to be submitted by the
applicant to the township shall be equal to the total estimated cost of all
required improvements and conditions of site plan and zoning approval,
including contingencies. If development is staged or phased over time, separate
security for each phase shall be submitted at the beginning of each phase as a
prerequisite. All improvements and conditions shall be satisfactorily completed
prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. However, one nine-month
extension beyond issuance of a certificate of occupancy may be permitted by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Return of performance and rebates. During project development, as
specific improvements and conditions of site plan and zoning approval are
satisfactorily completed, as attested to by the Zoning Administrator, the
Zoning Administrator shall direct the Township Clerk to return or rebate a
portion of the cash or surety bond equal to the cost of the specific
improvement or condition complied with.
   (D)   Withholding and partial withholding of performance bonds. Upon the
failure to comply with any or all of the requirements of this chapter, an
approved site plan, or with any or all conditions of zoning approval, the
security, or portion thereof, shall be forfeited by the applicant. The Township
Board shall determine the cost of the zoning and site plan requirement to be
completed according to the most current construction prices, including the cost
of administration. The amount determined shall be the amount of security
forfeited and applied toward zoning enforcement upon the site, and/or toward
completing the necessary improvements, requirements or conditions of zoning
approval upon the site.
   (E)   Performance bond for razing of building. The Zoning Administrator
shall require a letter of credit or cash deposit prior to the razing or
demolition of principal structures and accessory structures having more than
144 square feet of floor area. Said security shall be conditioned on the
applicant completing the razing within such reasonable period as shall be
prescribed in the permit and complying with such regulations as to health and
safety as the Zoning Administrator, Fire Inspector or the Township Board might
from time to time prescribe, including filling of excavation and proper
termination of utility connections.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.8)
§ 154.422 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Except as may be provided for otherwise in this chapter, the Township
Board shall determine and set fees to be collected for all applications for
zoning matters and approvals. These fees shall be collected prior to the
issuance of any permit or certificate, and other official action(s) required by
this chapter. No application shall be considered complete until all applicable
fees have been paid to the township. Furthermore, township employees and
officials shall not commence work on a given zoning application or matter until
any and all fees have been paid to the township in full. The fee schedule shall
be adopted by resolution of the Township Board, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   In addition to regularly established fees, the Township Board, at its
discretion, may also require an applicant to submit to the township, at any
time during the zoning review process, an amount of money determined by the
township to be a reasonable estimate of the fees and costs that may be incurred
by the township in reviewing and acting upon any such application or related
matters. The township shall not charge fees or assess costs to the applicant
for the time expended by township employees (except when authorized under
appropriate provisions of the Freedom of Information Act) or for incidental
costs and expenses, but may charge or assess the applicant for all other
reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the township during and in connection
with the review process and other related proceedings, whether or not the
application is granted either in whole or in part.
   (C)   Such costs and expenses to be charged or assessed to the applicant for
reimbursement of the township’s reasonable costs and expenses, may include, but
shall not be limited to, Township Attorney fees, township engineering fees,
costs and fees for services of outside consultants, fees and expenses of other
professionals who may assist the township, costs and fees for studies and
reports pertaining to the matter in questions, special meeting costs and other
reasonable costs and expenses. Such monies shall be retained by the township
for reimbursement of such costs and expenses. Any monies, paid or deposited by
an applicant, which are not used or spent by the township pursuant to an escrow
fee shall be refunded.
   (D)   If, for some reason, the applicant does not pay, or the township does
not collect, zoning escrow fees before or during the zoning review process, the
township can still bill such costs and expenses to the applicant after the
zoning review process has been completed and the applicant or landowner shall
promptly pay/reimburse the township for the same.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.9)
§ 154.423 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Upon notice from the Zoning Administrator that any use is being
conducted or that any work on any building or structure is proceeding contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, such work or use shall be immediately
stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property involved, to owner’s agent or to the person doing the
work and shall state the conditions, if any conditions, under which work or the
use will be permitted to resume.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue to work in or about the structure, land
or building or use it after having been served with a stop work order, except
work that the person is directed by the Zoning Administrator to perform to
remove a violation, shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.12)
§ 154.424 NOTICE AND HEARINGS.
   Except where expressly stated otherwise in this chapter, whenever a public
hearing on a zoning application or matter is required by this chapter or by the
Zoning Act (for example, where a rezoning, ordinance amendment, special use,
PUD or ZBA matter is involved), notice of the public hearing shall be published
and delivered in accordance with the requirements of this section and the
Zoning Act.
   (A)   The notice of public hearing shall be published once, at least 15 days
prior to the date of the public hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation
in the township.
   (B)   (1)   For applications involving the rezoning of ten or fewer adjacent
properties; for applications to the ZBA; and for all planned unit development
and special use applications, a notice of public hearing shall be mailed by way
of U.S. first class mail or be personally delivered to the following persons,
at least 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing:
         (a)   The applicant;
         (b)   All persons to whom real property is assessed for property tax
purposes within 300 feet of the property that is the subject to the
application;
         (c)   The occupants of all dwellings within 300 feet of the property
that is the subject of the application; and
         (d)   All neighborhood organizations, public utility companies,
railroads and other persons that have requested to receive notice.
      (2)   If the above-described 300-foot radius extends outside of the
township’s boundaries, then notice must also be provided outside of the
township boundaries, within the 300-foot radius, to all persons in the above-
stated categories.
   (C)   The notice of public hearing shall include the following information:
      (1)   A description of the nature of the application or request;
      (2)   An identification of the property that is the subject of the
application or request. The notice shall also include a listing of all existing
street addresses within the property; provided, however, that, street addresses
do not need to be created and listed if no such addresses currently exist
within the property; and, provided further that, street addresses do not need
to be listed if 11 or more adjacent properties are being proposed for rezoning;
      (3)   A statement of where and when the application or request will be
considered; and
      (4)   Indicate where and when written comments will be received
concerning the application or request.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.13)
§ 154.425 TIME LIMITS.
   If a zoning approval or permit under this chapter has been granted with a
specific time limit and the use has not commenced or substantial construction
has not begun pursuant to that approval within the time limit specified, the
zoning approval or permit shall automatically expire (and be void) at the end
of that time limit. If a zoning approval or permit is silent with regard to a
time limitation, the time limitation shall be deemed to be one year, and the
zoning approval or permit shall expire (and be void) after one year if the use
has not been commenced or substantial construction has not begun within said
one-year time limitation. The Zoning Administrator may grant a time extension
(at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator) of up to one year in total.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.14)
§ 154.426 PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector may require proof of
ownership from an applicant (including copies of a recorded deed or land
contract) before the issuance of a zoning compliance permit or a building
permit if it appears that the applicant may not be the owner (or sole owner) of
the property involved. The township may also require that all owners of a
particular property join in and sign the application or applications for any
zoning or building request or application, including a building permit,
variances, special use requests, site plan review, zoning compliance permits
and any other zoning or Building Code action.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.15)
§ 154.427 SURVEYS.
   The Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector shall have the authority to
require that an applicant or property owner provide the township with a current
survey by a registered surveyor or engineer for one or more boundary or
property lines of the lot or parcel involved (including providing a sealed
survey drawing by such professional surveyor or engineer and with property
boundaries staked by such professional) if the Zoning Administrator or Building
Inspector determines that it is reasonably necessary in order for the township
to determine whether the zoning setback, area and other applicable requirements
are met. The Zoning Administrator or Building Inspector may also require that
the professional surveyor or engineer place stakes at specified relevant areas
along the property line(s) and any setback lines or building envelopes. All
such surveying costs shall be paid for by the applicant or property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.16)
§ 154.428 REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF ZONING APPROVALS.
   If a property owner or applicant violates any of the conditions or
requirements attached to a zoning approval or zoning compliance permit, then
the township body, board or official that granted the zoning approval or permit
may terminate the zoning approval or zoning compliance permit. Where a special
use, PUD, variance or site plan approval was involved, no such revocation shall
occur until and unless the property owner or applicant has been given
reasonable notice and a public hearing has been held regarding the revocation.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.17)
§ 154.429 AMENDMENTS.
   The Township Board may from time to time on its own motion or on petition or
on recommendation of the Planning Commission or other body affected, amend,
supplement or repeal the regulations and provisions of this chapter after
public notice and hearing. Every such proposed amendment or change shall be
enacted in conformance with the provisions of the Zoning Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq., as amended, and shall follow the same procedures used for the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 16.1)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.440 AUTHORIZATION.
   A Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) is hereby authorized in accordance with the
Zoning Enabling Act of the state, as amended, to carry out the responsibilities
provided therein and those delegated herein.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.1)
§ 154.441 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Membership to the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) shall consist of five
members. The first member shall be a member of the Planning Commission. The
second member may be a member of the Township Board and appointed by the
Township Board. The third, fourth and fifth members, and the two alternate
members described below shall be appointed by the Township Board from among the
electors of the township residing outside of any incorporated areas. Membership
shall be representative of the local population including the various interests
located in the township.
   (B)   No elected official shall serve as Chairperson.
   (C)   No employees or contractors to the Township Board may serve on or be
hired by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (D)   Terms of office shall be three years, except for those serving as
representatives from the Planning Commission or Township Board. For such
representatives, terms shall be limited to the time they are members of their
respective commission or board.
   (E)   Successive members shall be appointed within one month after the
preceding member’s expiration date.
   (F)   The Zoning Board of Appeals is authorized to prepare an annual budget.
   (G)   Members may be removed by the Township Board for misfeasance,
malfeasance or non-feasance in office, based on written charges and after a
public hearing.
   (H)   Where member conflicts of interest exist, such member shall disqualify
himself or herself from voting. Failure to do so constitutes malfeasance in
office.
   (I)   The Township Board shall appoint two alternate members to the Zoning
Board of Appeals. Each alternate member shall be appointed for a term of three
years except that upon the appointment of the first such alternate members, one
such alternate member shall be appointed to a term of two years. Thereafter all
alternate members shall be appointed to a term of three years. The Chairperson
of the Zoning Board of Appeals or in the absence or incapacity of the
Chairperson, then the Vice Chairperson or the Secretary of the Zoning Board of
Appeals may call either of the alternate members to serve as a regular member
whenever:
      (1)   A regular member is absent from or will be unable to attend one or
more meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals; or
      (2)   A regular member has abstained for reason of a conflict of
interest.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.1)
§ 154.442 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) shall have all the power and duties
prescribed by law and by this chapter that are more particularly specified as
follows.
   (A)   Hear appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged by a person aggrieved or by an officer, department,
board or bureau of the state or local unit of government that there is an error
in any order, requirement, permit, decision or refusal made by the Zoning
Administrator or by any other official in administering or enforcing any
provisions of this chapter. Every appeal must be in writing and must be filed
with the township within 21 days of the date on which the Zoning Administrator
makes his or her decision, interpretation or takes other action. Upon appeal,
the Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination, as, in its opinion,
ought to be made in the premises, and to the end shall have all the power of
the official from whom the appeal is taken, and may direct the issuance of a
permit.
   (B)   Interpretation. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to:
      (1)   Interpret, upon request, the provisions of this chapter in such a
way as to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter;
      (2)   Determine the precise location of the boundary lines between zoning
districts, where uncertainty exists; and
      (3)   Classify a use that is not specifically mentioned as part of the
use regulations of any zoning district; providing that, it conforms to a
comparable permitted or regulated use (in accordance with the purpose and
intent of each district), until such time when the unclassified use is properly
assigned or classified by amendatory legislation.
   (C)   Variances. The ZBA shall have the power to authorize, upon appeal,
non-use variances from the specific requirements of this chapter, such as, lot
area and width regulations, building height and other bulk regulations, off-
street parking and loading space requirements and the like; provided, all of
the conditions listed in §
154.449 of this chapter can be satisfied. The ZBA shall have the power to
authorize, upon appeal, use variances provided all of the conditions listed in
§
154.449(B) of this chapter can be satisfied.
   (D)   Limitations on the power and jurisdiction of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The ZBA shall not have any power, jurisdiction or authority to grant
variances or hear any appeals regarding the following:
      (1)   The approval or denial by any township body involving a planned
unit development, special use and/or site plan. However, if the township body
responsible for any such decision expressly authorizes an appeal to the ZBA
with regard to an interpretation or a variance of an underlying requirement of
this chapter, the ZBA shall have jurisdiction in such limited circumstances and
as otherwise limited by the township body that authorized such an appeal; and
      (2)   Where a zoning regulation, determination or decision involves a
planned unit development, special use or site plan review and approval or
denial, or any such planned unit development, special use or site plan is
potentially available, the ZBA shall generally not have jurisdiction, and a
landowner or other aggrieved party shall not be able to file an application
with the ZBA to circumvent or avoid the special use, planned unit development
or site plan review and approval or denial process. The ZBA shall continue to
have jurisdiction with regard to any site plan (or the equivalent) related to a
variance request that is lawfully before the ZBA.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.3)
§ 154.443 ORGANIZATION AND CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Rules of procedure and decision-making. The Zoning Board of Appeals
(ZBA) shall adopt its own rules of procedure as may be necessary to conduct its
meetings and carry out its function. The Board shall choose its own Chairperson
and, in his or her absence, an acting Chairperson. The ZBA shall formulate
decisions based upon the standards and other various provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
such times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine. All meetings by the
Board shall be open to the public and conducted in compliance with the Open
Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., of the
state. The Board may declare any meeting, or part of any meeting, a study
meeting to pursue matters of business without comment or interruption from the
public in attendance. The Board shall not conduct business unless a majority of
the regular members of the Board are present.
   (C)   Records. Minutes shall be recorded of all proceedings that shall
contain the evidence received, the findings of fact and data relevant to every
case considered, together with the votes of the members and the final
disposition of each case. Such minutes shall be filed with the Township Clerk
and shall be made available to the general public in compliance with the
Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, of the state.
   (D)   Hearings. All appeals and requests before the ZBA shall require public
hearing with proper notification. See §
154.424 of this chapter.
   (E)   Decisions (voting). A concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals is necessary in order to take any action on a
matter before the ZBA; provided, however, that, a concurring vote of two-thirds
of the members is necessary to approve a use variance.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.4)
§ 154.444 CONDITIONS OF ZBA APPROVAL.
   (A)   Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of a variance
by the Zoning Board of Appeals. The conditions may include, but are not limited
to, conditions necessary to insure that public services and facilities affected
by a proposed land use or activity will be capable of accommodating increased
service and facility loads caused by the land use or activity, to protect the
natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to ensure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land and to promote the use of land in a
socially and economically desirable manner. Conditions imposed shall meet all
of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare, and the social and economic well-being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and purposes
that are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning
ordinance, be related to the standards established in the ordinance for the
land use or activity under consideration and be necessary to ensure compliance
with those standards.
   (B)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a special use
shall be recorded in the record of the approval action and shall remain
unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
maintain a record of conditions that are changed.
   (C)   In the event the Zoning Board of Appeals grants a variance, the
individual or his successor in interest shall not use the property in question
such that it would exceed those rights given the zoning ordinance or the
variance, or fail to follow any conditions placed thereon by said Zoning Board
of Appeals. In the event the use of the property exceeds those rights given by
the zoning ordinance or the variance, or fails to follow the conditions placed
upon the variance, the variance shall immediately terminate and it shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.5)
§ 154.445 TIME LIMIT ON DECISION OF ZBA.
   Any decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals on an appeal or application for
a variance that has resulted in granting a zoning permit, special use permit or
variance shall be valid for a period of one year with an additional one year
extension granted by the Zoning Administrator. This is construed to be a
reasonable period of time within which to begin construction.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.6)
§ 154.446 FINAL ACTION ON APPEALS.
   The decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be final, and any party
aggrieved by any such decision may appeal to the Circuit Court for the county.
The records of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be made available for the
court’s review.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.7)
§ 154.447 EFFECT OF APPEALS PROCEEDINGS (STAY OF PROCEEDINGS).
   An appeal to the Board of Appeals shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer or body from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the Board of Appeals (after the notice of appeal shall have
been filed with that officer or body), that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause immediate peril of life or property, in which
case proceedings may be stayed by a restraining order issued by the Board of
Appeals or a circuit court.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.8)
§ 154.448 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS/VARIANCES; DECISION PROCESS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   When any order, requirement, decision or determination is
subsequently appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals or when a variance is
requested, as provided for in this chapter, the appellant shall file a notice
of appeal with fee to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward all records
and materials to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   If appealing a determination or order, the Zoning Administrator
shall also send copies of all materials to the official or body of officials
from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   Such body or official shall also make all records available to the
ZBA for review.
   (B)   General procedural steps by ZBA.
      (1)   The ZBA reviews the appeal form to make sure that it is the proper
form for the action requested and to see that all required information is
submitted.
      (2)   The Township Clerk shall place said appeal form on the calendar for
hearing at the next meeting of the ZBA and shall cause notice to be published
and sent as set forth below. The notices shall be given not less than 15 days
before the date of the hearing on an appeal. See §
154.424 of this chapter.
         (a)   The ZBA shall publish notice of a public hearing for an appeal
in a newspaper that circulates in the township. The notice shall also be sent
by mail or personal delivery to the owners of property for which approval is
being considered. Notice shall also be sent to all persons to whom real
property is assessed within 300 feet of the property and to the occupants of
all structures within 300 feet of the property regardless of whether the
property or occupant is located in the township.
         (b)   The notice shall include:
            1.   The nature of the request;
            2.   The property(ies) for which the appeal has been made;
            3.   A listing of all existing street addresses within the property
(ies) that is(are) subject of the appeal. Street addresses do not need to be
created and listed if no such addresses currently exist. If there are no street
addresses, another means of identification may be used;
            4.   The location where the request can be viewed and copied prior
to the hearing date;
            5.   The date, time and location of when the hearing before the
Appeals Board will take place; and
            6.   The address at which written comments should be directed prior
to the hearing.
         (c)   At the hearing, rules and procedures for the conduct of the
hearing as may be established in the by-laws of the ZBA shall be followed:
            1.   Any party may be heard in person or by agent or attorney; and
            2.   The ZBA may adjourn the hearing in order to permit the
obtaining of additional information or to cause such further notice as it deems
proper to be served upon such other property owners as it decides may be
interested in said application or appeal. If the hearing is adjourned, persons
previously notified and persons already heard, need to be notified of the time
of resumption of said hearing.
         (d)   Following the hearing, the ZBA shall formulate its decision.
            1.   The ZBA shall consider the merits of the individual
application or appeal within the context of any and all standards and
considerations established in this chapter. In the case of variances, the
standards of §
154.449 of this chapter shall control.
            2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or
part, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of issue,
as in its opinion ought to be made, and, to that end, shall have all the powers
of the official or body of officials from whom the appeal was taken and may
direct the issuance of a permit.
            3.   The written decision of the ZBA shall not be final until five
days after it is made unless the ZBA shall find the immediate effect of such
order is necessary for the preservation of property or personal rights and
shall certify on the record. In the written decision on the application or
appeal, the ZBA must include the reasons for decision and facts supporting such
reasons.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.9)
§ 154.449 VARIANCES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Non-use variances. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the
authority to grant non-use variances relating to the construction, structural
changes or alteration of buildings or structures related to dimensional
requirements of the zoning ordinance or to any other non-use-related standard
in this chapter, only when all of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The need for the requested variance is due to practical
difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of the zoning ordinance arising
from unique circumstances or physical conditions of the property involved, such
as narrowness, shallowness, shape, water or topography;
      (2)   The asserted difficulty is not due to the applicant’s personal or
economic difficulty. Increased financial return alone shall not be deemed
sufficient to warrant a variance;
      (3)   The need for the requested variance is not the result of actions of
the property owner or previous property owners;
      (4)   Strict compliance with regulations governing area, setback,
frontage, height, bulk, density or other dimensional requirements will
unreasonably prevent the property owner from using the property for permitted
purposes or will render conformity with those regulations unnecessarily
burdensome;
      (5)   The requested variance is the minimum variance necessary to do
substantial justice to the applicant as well as to other property owners in the
district;
      (6)   The requested variance will not cause an adverse impact on
surrounding property, property values or the use and enjoyment of property in
the neighborhood or zoning district; and
      (7)   The need for the requested variance is not based primarily on non-
conforming use(s) of nearby lands, structures or buildings.
   (B)   Use variances. A use variance may be granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals only in cases where the applicant demonstrates in the official record
of the public hearing that unnecessary hardship exists by showing all of the
following:
      (1)   The property cannot be reasonably used for any of the uses
permitted in the zoning district in which it is located;
      (2)   The need for the requested variance is due to unique circumstances
or physical conditions of the property involved, such as narrowness,
shallowness, shape, water or topography;
      (3)   That the need for the variance is not due to the applicant’s
personal or economic hardship;
      (4)   Such unique circumstances or physical conditions of the property
are not so general or recurrent in nature so as to make it reasonably
practicable to address them by amending this chapter;
      (5)   The proposed use will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood;
      (6)   The need for the requested variance is not the result of actions of
the property owner or previous property owners (self-created);
      (7)   The authorizing of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to the adjacent and nearby properties; and
      (8)   The need for the requested variance is not based primarily on non-
conforming use(s) of nearby lands, structures or buildings.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 15.10)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations; nuisance per se; municipal civil infractions.
      (1)   Any building erected, moved, altered, razed or converted, or any
use of land that is begun or changed subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter, or its amendment, that is in violation of any provision of this
chapter or the requirements thereof or any condition or requirement of a zoning
permit, occupancy permit, site plan, PUD, special use approval, decision of the
ZBA or a variance or other approval granted under this chapter, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se, and shall be abated by any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any person, corporation, firm or other entity who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with any provision of this
chapter or any condition or requirement of a zoning permit, occupancy permit,
site plan, special use approval, PUD, decision of the ZBA, or a variance or
other approval granted under this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine, in an amount determined by the
township from time to time, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation,
as authorized by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and other applicable laws. Repeat offenses
under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts as
provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter occurs or continues
constitutes a separate offense subject to separate sanctions.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.10)
   (B)   Cumulative. The remedies provided by this chapter are cumulative. In
addition to any remedies available at law, the township may bring an action for
an injunction or other process against any person to restrain, prevent or abate
any violation of this chapter. Further, the imposition of any fine or sanction
shall not exempt an offender from compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012, § 14.11)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
A-1   Table of permitted uses
§ A-1 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES.
1        2         3          4         5          6          7       8
                   Only the
                   Following            Minimum
         Only the  are Uses   Only the  Off-       Minimum    Permitt
         Following Permitted  Following Street     Off-Street ed      Additional
District are Uses  by Special are       Parking    Loading    Accesso Use
         Permitted Use        Permitted Spaces     Berths     ry      Regulations
         by Right  Approved   Accessory (All       (All       Signs
                   by         Uses      Districts) Districts)
                   Planning
                   Commission
1            2                                                                      3                                                         4                            5               6          7                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                           Minimum
                                                                                                                                                                           Minimum Off-    Off-Street
District     Only the Following are Uses Permitted by Right                         Only the Following are Uses Permitted by Special Use      Only the Following are       Street Parking  Loading    Permitt ed Accesso ry Signs                         Additional Use Regulations
                                                                                    Approved by Planning Commission                           Permitted Accessory Uses     Spaces (All     Berths
                                                                                                                                                                           Districts)      (All
                                                                                                                                                                                           Districts)
                                                                                                                                                                                           1. For any
                                                                                                                                                                                           building
                                                                                                                                                                                           in excess
                                                                                                                                                                                           of 10,000
                                                                                                                                                                           1. Dwellings: 1 square
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 1/    feet, 1
                                                                                                                                                                           2 dwelling      berth is
Ag-1 Prime                                                                                                                                    1. Barns, silos, stables,    unit, plus 2    required.  For all signs, see §§
Agricultural 1. Agricultural dwellings (single family)                              1. Housing for migrant farm labor, see §                 grain storage and grain      spaces for any  For each   154.380 and                                         Bulk regulations, see
Preservation                                                                        154.216.                                                  dryers                       1 accessory     additional 154.381 of this code                                Appendix B
                                                                                                                                                                           home occupation 10,000
                                                                                                                                                                           or principal    square
                                                                                                                                                                           agricultural    feet or
                                                                                                                                                                           use             fraction
                                                                                                                                                                                           thereof, 1
                                                                                                                                                                                           additional
                                                                                                                                                                                           berth is
                                                                                                                                                                                           required
                                                                                                                                                                           2. Parking for
                                                                                                                                                                           uses involving
                                                                                                                                                                           the sale of
                                                                                                                                                                           agricultural
                                                                                                                                                                           products shall
             1a. Nonagricultural dwellings on separate lots created for such        2. Specialized collection and storage facilities for      2. Home occupations, see §  provide 1                                                                      1. Nonagricultural dwellings in the Ag-1 district, see §
            purpose provided the requirements of §                                agricultural products not grown on premises               154.208.                     parking space                                                                154.207
             154.207 are met                                                                                                                                               for every 300
                                                                                                                                                                           square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           useable floor
                                                                                                                                                                           area; such
                                                                                                                                                                           parking need
                                                                                                                                                                           not be paved
                                                                                                                                                                           3. Greenhouses:
            2. Agricultural enterprises including horticulture, viticulture,       3. Slaughter houses                                       3. Housing for migrant farm  1 space per 400                                                              2. For all lighting and screening rules, see §
             dairy, cattle, hog, poultry and other livestock raising; and forestry                                                            labor, see column #3         square feet of                                                                 154.265
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area.
                                                                                                                                                                           4. Churches and
Ag-1 Prime                                                                                                                                    4. Manure storage, tanks and places of                                                                      3. Structures, lots; utilities and parking, see various
Agricultural 3. Garden nurseries and greenhouses                                    4. Private landing areas                                  ponds                        worship: 1                                                                   sections of Chapter 154 of this code
Preservation                                                                                                                                                               space per 3
                                                                                                                                                                           seats capacity
                                                                                                                                                                           5. Rural
                                                                                                                                                                           recreation/
                                                                                                                                                                           amusement
                                                                                                                                                                           enterprises:
                                                                                                                                                                           sufficient off-
                                                                                                                                                                           street parking
             4. Marketing and processing of agricultural products grown on the      5. Underground homes, see §                              5. Private garages, lawn     spaces shall be                                                                4. Underground homes, see §
            premises (except the sale of agricultural products permitted under 8, 154.255 if non- agricultural                              sheds, and machine sheds     provided to                                                                  154.255
             below)                                                                                                                                                        avoid parking
                                                                                                                                                                           of patron
                                                                                                                                                                           vehicles on
                                                                                                                                                                           adjacent
                                                                                                                                                                           streets; such
                                                                                                                                                                           parking need
                                                                                                                                                                           not be paved
                                                                                                                                                                           5.a. Township
                                                                                                                                                                           offices/
                                                                                                                                                                           buildings: 1
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 200
             5. Professional convalescent care, nursing home or foster care                                                                                                square feet of                                                                 5. Transition zones, see §
            facility, any of which have 6 or less clients; provided that such use  6. Churches                                               6. Swimming pools and patios floor area but                                                               154.264
             is at least 1,500 ft. from another similar use                                                                                                                not less than 1
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 3
                                                                                                                                                                           seats where
                                                                                                                                                                           seats are
                                                                                                                                                                           provided
                                                                                                                                                                           6. Public
                                                                                                                                                                           buildings,
                                                                                                                                                                           community
                                                                                                                                                                           centers and
                                                                                                                                                                           public
                                                                                                                                                                           recreational                                                                   6. Nonconforming uses, structures and lots of record, see §§
Ag-1 Prime                                                                          7. Marketing and processing of agricultural products not                               buildings: 1                                                                   154.140 through
Agricultural 6. Essential public services                                           grown on premises                                         7. Private roads and streets space per 200                                                                154.146
Preservation                                                                                                                                                               square feet of                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area, but
                                                                                                                                                                           not less than 1
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 3
                                                                                                                                                                           seats where
                                                                                                                                                                           seats are
                                                                                                                                                                           provided
                                                                                                                                                                           7. Schools and
                                                                                                                                                                           nurseries: 1
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 12
                                                                                                                                                                           seats or
                                                                                    8. Private roads pursuant to §§                                                      students in
            7. Single-family dwellings designed as open space preservation         154.330 through                                                                       elementary                                                                   7. Site plan review and approval is required for all special
             projects                                                               154.338                                                                                grades or less,                                                                uses
                                                                                                                                                                           and 1 space per
                                                                                                                                                                           6 seats or
                                                                                                                                                                           students for
                                                                                                                                                                           all other
                                                                                                                                                                           schools
             8. The sale of agricultural products which are grown primarily on the                                                                                         8. Convalescent
Ag-1 Prime   premises on land under the control of the person selling such          9. Bed and breakfast establishments per §                                             and nursing                                                                    8. Parking and Loading dimensions: Parking space: 10’ X 20’ =
Agricultural products; the sale of agricultural products may also include the       154.270                                                                               homes: 1 space                                                               200 square feet Loading Berth: 12’ X 44’ = 528 square feet
Preservation limited, subordinate sale of agricultural products grown off the                                                                                              per 3 beds
             premises by the person selling the products on the premises
                                                                                                                                                                           9. Retail
             Other uses allowed in conjunction with the sale of agricultural                                                                                               establishments,
             products may include but shall not be limited to: arts and crafts or                                                                                          banks and other
Ag-1 Prime   similar items, processed food items or similar items not produced on   10. MET tower (anemometer ) pursuant to §§                                           personal                                                                       9. For special uses, see §§
Agricultural the premises; baked goods, non- alcoholic beverages, light meals or    154.285 through                                                                       service                                                                      154.185 through
Preservation snacks such as soups, sandwiches and desserts for consumption on the   154.290.                                                                               establishments:                                                                154.194
             premises provided that the sale of all above items are subordinate to                                                                                         1 space per 150
             the sale of agricultural products as provided herein                                                                                                          square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area
             9. Uses which utilize farm land, farm buildings or farm equipment for
Ag-1 Prime   rural/ recreation amusement enterprises in conjunction with an active  11. The storage and sale of seed, feed, fertilizer,                                    10.                                                                            10. For all permit procedures, see §§
Agricultural farm operation; such uses include but are not limited to crop mazes,   herbicides, pesticides and other products essential to                                Restaurants: 1                                                               154.415 through
Preservation hay dies, horse rides, petting farms, bike and foot trails and similar agricultural production, including the sale, rental and                                space per 2                                                                    154.429
             uses excluding paintball and similar games and commercial off road     display of equipment related to the use of these product                               seats capacity
             vehicle trails
                                                                                                                                                                           11. Dry
                                                                                                                                                                           cleaning and
                                                                                                                                                                           laundry pick-up
            10. Township offices, township administrative buildings, and other     12. Veterinary services                                                               establishments,                                                              11. Certain uses herein provided have design standards; see
             township buildings such as fire stations                                                                                                                      laundromats: 1                                                                 various sections of Chapter 154 of this code
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 150
                                                                                                                                                                           square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area
Ag-1 Prime                                                                                                                                                                 12. Funeral                                                                    12. For certain adult uses as enumerated in §§
Agricultural                                                                       13. General repair and welding of farm implements and                                 parlors: 1                                                                   154.350 through
Preservation                                                                        farm machinery                                                                         space per 5                                                                    154.353, regulations as provided therein must be observed
                                                                                                                                                                           seats capacity
                                                                                                                                                                           13. Medical,
                                                                                                                                                                           clinical,
                                                                                                                                                                           dental offices
                                                                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                       laboratories,                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                           and animal
                                                                                                                                                                           hospitals: 1
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 150
                                                                                                                                                                           square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area
                                                                                                                                                                           14. Private
             14. Special events such as private wine tastings, wine dinners, and                                                                                           clubs, lodges,
             receptions for weddings, reunions, and business gatherings conducted                                                                                          and meeting
            in conjunction with a winery per §                                                                                                                         halls: 1 space                                                                
             154.231                                                                                                                                                       per 200 square
                                                                                                                                                                           feet of floor
                                                                                                                                                                           area
                                                                                                                                                                           15. Drive-in
             15. Special events conducted as a business on farm land or in existing                                                                                        theaters: 1
             farm buildings which are part of an active farm operation. Such events                                                                                        space per 300
            may include but are not limited to indoor and outdoor weddings,        16. Wineries, micro-breweri es, and distilleries, see §                              square feet of                                                                
             wedding receptions, company picnics, graduation parties, reunions, and 154.233                                                                                developed site
             similar gatherings but not including musical concerts per §                                                                                                  area with a
             154.231                                                                                                                                                       minimum of 40
                                                                                                                                                                           spaces
                                                                                                                                                                           16. Bowling
                                                                                                                                                                           alleys and
Ag-1 Prime                                                                          17. Retail garden nurseries and greenhouses, see §                                    billiard
Agricultural                                                                       154.234                                                                               parlors: 1                                                                    
Preservation                                                                                                                                                               space per 75
                                                                                                                                                                           square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area
                                                                                                                                                                       17. Hotels/                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                           motels
                                                                                                                                                                           18. Auto sales
                                                                                                                                                                           and services: 1
                                                                                                                                                                       space per 600                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                           square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           display and
                                                                                                                                                                           sales area
                                                                                                                                                                           19. Industrial
                                                                                                                                                                           uses including
                                                                                                                                                                           manufacturing,
                                                                                                                                                                           research and
                                                                                                                                                                           development,
                                                                                                                                                                           creameries,
                                                                                                                                                                       bottling works,                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                           printing,
                                                                                                                                                                           plumbing and
                                                                                                                                                                           electrical
                                                                                                                                                                           shops: 1 space
                                                                                                                                                                           per 2 employees
                                                                                                                                                                           based on peak
                                                                                                                                                                           employment
                                                                                                                                                                           20.
                                                                                                                                                                           Professional
                                                                                                                                                                       offices: 1                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                           space per 150
                                                                                                                                                                           square feet of
                                                                                                                                                                           floor area
Ag-                                                                                                                                                                        Same as         Same as    For all signs, see §§
2            1. Same as Ag-1                                                        1. Same as Ag-1, except #1, 11, 12, 13 and 16             1. Same as Ag-1              preceding pages preceding  154.380 and                                          
Agriculture                                                                                                                                                                                pages      154.381 of this code
            2. Single-family dwellings (except mobile homes)                       2. Research and development facilities                                                                                                                             
            3. Churches                                                            3. Animal kennels and animal hospitals                                                                                                                             
            4. Single-family designed as open space preservation projects          4. Golf courses                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                  5. Campgrounds, recreation vehicle parks                                                                                                                           
                                                                                  6. Open air businesses                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                    7. Parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, nature preserves,
                                                                                  recreation, and community centers owned and operated by a                                                                                                          
                                                                                    government or non-profit organization
R-1 Low                                                                                                                                                                                    Same as
Density      1. Single-family dwellings                                             1. Public schools and private schools                     1. Private garages and lawn  Same as         preceding  For all signs, see §§ 154.380 and 154.381 of this  
Single-                                                                                                                                       sheds                        preceding pages pages      code
Family
            2. Churches                                                            2. Parks, playgrounds and community centers               2. Swimming pools and patios                                                                              
            3. Essential public services                                                                                                    3. Home occupations, see                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                              §154.208
             4. Mobile homes as single-family dwellings, subject to §§
            154.249 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
             154.256
            5. Single-family dwellings designed as open space preservation                                                                                                                                                                           
             projects
R-2 Medium
Density      1. Same as R-1                                                         1. Same as R-1                                            Same as R-1                                                                                               
Single-
Family
                                                                                  2. Two-family dwellings                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                  3. Reserved                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                  4. Convalescent or nursing homes                                                                                                                                   
R-3 Medium/                                                                                                                                                                                Same a     For all signs, see §§
High Density 1. Same as R-1                                                         1. Multiple-family dwellings                              1. Same as R-1, except home  Same as         preceding  154.380 and                                          
Multiple-                                                                                                                                     occupations                  preceding pages pages      154.381 of this code
Family
R-4 Medium/                                                                                                                                   1. As provided in §§
High Density 1. Mobiles homes only as permitted in mobile home parks                                                                         154.365 and                                                                                               
Mobile Home                                                                                                                                   154.366
Park
RR Rogue                                                                                                                                      See §§                     Same as         Same as    For all signs, see §§                             1. See §§
River        1. Single-family dwellings                                                                                                      154.035 through              preceding pages preceding  154.380 and                                         154.035 through
                                                                                                                                              154.040                                      pages      154.381 of this code                                154.040
             1. Uses conducted indoors, such as:
             1) Banks, building and loan associations and other money lending
             institutions 2) Professional offices, clinical/ medical offices,                                                                 1. Accessory buildings and
             personal service establishments                                                                                                  uses customarily incidental
C-1 General  3) Animal hospitals/ kennels                                           1. Churches and schools                                   to any of the uses allowed,                                                                               
Commercial   4) Retail shops where no assembling, treatments or manufacturing is                                                              but not including any
             required 5) Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up services                                                                            manufacturing or chemical
             6) Funeral parlors                                                                                                               treatment activities
             7) Bowling alleys
             8) Theaters 9) Private clubs, lodges
                                                                                  2. Gas stations, excluding carwashing                                                                                                                              
                                                                                  3. Coin-operated laundry and cleaning with community                                                                                                               
                                                                                    sanitary sewer only
                                                                                  4. Indoor commercial recreational uses not provided in                                                                                                             
                                                                                    column #2
                                                                                  5. Restaurants with community sanitary sewer only                                                                                                                  
                                                                                  6. Hotels and motels with community sanitary sewer only.                                                                                                           
                                                                                    7. Other uses similar to the above mentioned uses
                                                                                  provided such uses are found to be similar by the                                                                                                                  
                                                                                    Planning Commission
                                                                                  8. Shopping centers                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                  9. Billboards as a principal use                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                  10. Office developments                                                                                                                                            
             1. Uses conducted outdoors such as:
             1) Automotive sales and services (including indoor and outdoor sales
             displays of automotive and auto-related equipment) 2) Farm implements                                                                                                         Sane as    For all signs, see §§
C-2 Highway  sales and services                                                     1. Shopping centers                                                                   Same as         preceding  154.380 and                                          
Commercial   3) Mobile home and recreation vehicle dealerships 4) Drive-in theaters                                                                                        preceding pages pages      154.381 of this code
             5) Retail lumber and building supplies
             6) Retail garden nurseries and garden supplies
             7) Open air businesses
            2. Gas stations and service stations                                                                                                                                                                                                     
            3. Car wash establishments                                                                                                                                                                                                               
            4. Hotels and motels with community sanitary sewer only                                                                                                                                                                                  
            5. Billboards as a principal use                                                                                                                                                                                                         
             6. Contractors yard where all materials or vehicles (i) are stored
             inside an enclosed building, or (ii) are visually screened by a fence,
             wall, or greenbelt to a height of not less than 6 feet on all sides
             (with the height of any fence or wall not to vary by more than 1 foot
            around all sides of the contractors yard), all materials are not                                                                                                                                                                         
             stacked higher than the height of the visual screen, and the visual
             screen is located at least 40 feet from the front lot line. The term
             CONTRACTORS YARD shall not be construed to include a waste hauling
             business in whole or in part
            7. Mini warehouse or storage facility in which all warehousing and                                                                                                                                                                       
             storage is conducted within a completely enclosed building
            8. Child care centers or day care centers                                                                                                                                                                                                
            9. Ambulance services                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
            10. Any use permitted by right in the C-1 General Commercial District                                                                                                                                                                    
I-1 Light    1. Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treating and                                                               1. Company-owned employee    Same as         Same as    For all signs, see §§
Industrial   assembling from previously prepared material in the production of:     1. Industrial parks                                       services and facilities      preceding pages preceding  154.380 and                                         1. Same as preceding pages
                                                                                                                                              located onsite                               pages      154.381 of this code
             1) Food and kindred products
             2) Apparel, clothing, textile mill products, leather goods and canvas
             products
             3) Lumber and wood products
             4) Furniture and fixtures 5) Paper products                                                                                      2. Educational facilities                                                                                   2. All industrial uses shall comply with the requirements for
            6) Printing and publishing 7) Finished chemical products                                                                        and credit unions related to                                                                             such uses specified at various locations in this chapter
             8) Finished rubber products                                                                                                      abutting industry
             9) Stone, clay and glass products
             10) Finished metal products such as machinery, equipment and other
             fabricated metal products
             11) Engineering, measuring
            12) Finished jewelry, silverware, toys, athletic, office, and tobacco                                                                                                                                                                    
             goods, musical instruments and similar products
            2. Wholesale trade, storage and distribution                                                                                                                                                                                             
            3. Private transportation communication and utilities                                                                                                                                                                                    
             4. Services such as:
             1) Laundry, dry cleaning, and dyeing plants
            2) Warehousing and storage                                                                                                                                                                                                               
             3) Research and development 4) Direct mail advertising
             5) Contractors yards
             5. Airports, airfields, aircrafts, and landing strips provided the
            provisions of §§154.055 through 154.058 are met in addition to the                                                                                                                                                                     
             requirements of the I-1 District
            6. Waste hauling business                                                                                                                                                                                                                
I-2 Heavy                                                                                                                                                                  Same as         Same as
Industrial   1. Same as I-1                                                         1. Junk yards, scrap processing                           1. Same as I-1               preceding pages preceding                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                           pages
             2. Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, treating,
             assembling, and bulk storage of:
             1) Acetylene gas
            2) Alcohol 3) Ammonia 4) Brick, tile or terra-cotta 5) Concrete/       2. Manufacturing of tar and asphalt products                                                                                                                       
             cement products
             6) Electroplating
             7) Lampblack 8) Petroleum products and byproducts 9) Cleaning products
            3. Railroad repair and freight car yards                               3. Slaughterhouses and rendering plants                                                                                                                            
            4. Processing of raw materials.                                        4. Sanitary landfills and disposal sites for hazardous                                                                                                             
                                                                                    and liquid materials
                                                                                  5. Industrial parks                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                  6. Adult-oriented businesses                                                                                                                                       
AP Airport   Same as primary zoning district, however, compliance with §§
(Overlay     154.055 through                                                        1. Light aircraft airport facilities                                                                                                                               
Zone)        154.058 must be met
(Ord. 15-02, passed 2-12-2015; Ord. 23-4, passed 2-9-2023; Ord. 24-6, passed 1-
11-2024, § 3)
 
APPENDIX B: TABLE OF GENERAL BULK REGULATIONS
Section
   
B-1   Table of permitted uses
§ B-1 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES.
1 2     3         4        5       6        7        8        9        10       11
                  The Following Bulk Regulations Apply (See Note 1)
        For uses
        listed
        below
        (Uses
        listed
        herein    Minimum                            Total
        refer in  Net              Required Required Width    Required          Minimum
        abbreviat Building Minimum Front    Side     Both     Rear     Maximum  Floor
        ed form   Area (in Lot     Yard     Yard     Required Yard     Building Area of
  Group to the    square   Width   Setback  Depth    Side     Depth    Height   Dwelling
        uses      feet     (in     (in      (in      Yards    (in      (in      (square
        listed in unless   feet)   feet)    feet)    (in      feet)    feet)    feet)
        detail in otherwis                           feet)
        Use       e noted)
        Table,
        columns 1
        through
        8) See
        note 4
1        2     3                                                          4                              5                                                                       6                                                                       7                                                                      8                                                                       9                                                                      10                                                                      11
                                                                          The Following Bulk Regulations Apply (See Note 1)
               For uses listed below                                      Minimum Net Building Area (in
         Group (Uses listed herein refer in abbreviat ed form to the uses square feet unless otherwis e  Minimum Lot Width (in feet)                                             Required Front Yard Setback (in feet)                                   Required Side Yard Depth (in feet)                                     Total Width Both Required Side Yards (in feet)                          Required Rear Yard Depth (in feet)                                     Maximum Building Height (in feet)                                       Minimum Floor Area of Dwelling (square feet)
               listed in detail in Use Table, columns 1 through 8) See    noted)
               note 4
Ag-1     A     Single- family dwelling units (for non- agricultural       1 acre                         200                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
               dwelling units see note 2)
               Agricultural enterprise including dairy cattle, beef, hog,
               poultry and/or other livestock farms, horticulture,
        B-1   viticulture, forestry, garden or other nurseries and       40 acres                       200                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
               marketing and processing of agricultural products grown on
               premises
        B-2   Migrant farm labor housing                                 See §                         ...                                                                     500                                                                     500                                                                    1,000                                                                   500                                                                    2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            As set by rules adopted by the State Department of Public Health for
                                                                          154.216                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      agricultural labor camps
        C-1   Airfield and landing strips                                See §                         ...                                                                     50                                                                      50                                                                     ...                                                                     50                                                                     ...                                                                     ...
                                                                          154.215
        C-2   All other permitted uses listed in                         5 acres                        150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3
        C-3   Township offices, township administrative buildings and    1 acre                         150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               other township buildings such as fire stations
        C-4   Churches                                                   3 acres                        150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
        C-5   Wineries, micro-breweries, and distilleries                10 acres                       200                                                                     See §                                                                  See §                                                                 See §                                                                  See §                                                                 2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
                                                                                                                                                                                 154.233( E)                                                             154.233( E)                                                            154.233( E)                                                             154.233( E)
        F-3   Retail garden nurseries and greenhou ses                   10 acres                       See §                                                                  35                                                                      20                                                                     40                                                                      35                                                                     35                                                                      ...
                                                                                                         154.234
        F-8   Township offices, township administrative buildings and    1 acre                         150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               other township buildings such as fire stations
Ag-2     C-3   Township offices, township administrative building and     1 acre                         150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               other township buildings, such as fire stations
        C-4   Churches                                                   3 acres                        150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
        D     Single- family dwelling units                              43,560 square feet             150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
                                                                          1 acre
        E-1   Cattle, beef, hog and poultry farms                        40 acres                       150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
        E-2   Migrant farm labor housing                                 See §                         ...                                                                     500                                                                     500                                                                    1,000                                                                   500                                                                    2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            As set by rules adopted by the State Departme nt of Public Health for
                                                                          154.216                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      agricultural labor camps.
                                                                          2 acres, see §§
        F-1   Animal kennels and animal hospitals                        154.212 and                    150                                                                     75                                                                      50                                                                     100                                                                     50                                                                     35 feet                                                                 ...
                                                                          154.213
        F-2   Airfields and landing strips                               See §                         ...                                                                     50                                                                      50                                                                     ...                                                                     50                                                                     ...                                                                     ...
                                                                          154.215
        F-3   Open air business                                          1 acre, see §                 200                                                                     35                                                                      20                                                                     40                                                                      35                                                                     35 feet                                                                 ...
                                                                          154.219
        F-4   Golf courses                                               40 acres, see §               200                                                                     75                                                                      75                                                                     150                                                                     75                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                             
                                                                          154.223 
        F-5   Campgrounds and recreation vehicle parks                   3 acres, see §                200                                                                     75                                                                      75                                                                     150                                                                     75                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                             
                                                                          154.224
        F-6   Churches                                                   3 acres                        150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                             
        F-7   All other permitted uses listed in Appendix A, columns 2   1 acre                         150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               and 3
        F-8   Township offices, township administrative buildings and    1 acre                         150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               other township buildings, such as fire stations
               Single- family dwelling units (for mobile homes, see §§  40,000 square feet             150
R-1      G     154.249 and                                                .92 acres                      150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
               154.256)                                                                                  100
        H     All other permitted uses listed in                         1.5 acres                      200                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3
R-2      I-1   Single- family dwelling units                              Same as R-1                    Same as R-1                                                             35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
        I-2   Two- family dwellings                                      30,000                         150                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            720
                                                                          2 acres, see §§                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            See §
        I-3   Planned develop- ments                                     154.095 through                400                                                                     300                                                                     30                                                                     60                                                                      30                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            154.249
                                                                          154.108
        J     Convales cent or nursing homes                             See §                         130                                                                     35                                                                      25                                                                     25                                                                      40                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            See §
                                                                          154.222                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      154.222
        K     All other permitted uses listed in                         1.5 acres                      200                                                                     35                                                                      10                                                                     25                                                                      35                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3
R-3      L-1   Single- family dwelling units                              Same as R-1                    Same as R-1                                                             25                                                                      15                                                                     35                                                                      25                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
        L-2   Two- family dwellings                                      30,000                         150                                                                     25                                                                      15                                                                     35                                                                      25                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            960
                                                                          30,000 square feet for the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   See §
        L-3   Multiple- family dwellings                                 first 2 units, + 10,000 square 150                                                                     25                                                                      15                                                                     35                                                                      25                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            154.249
                                                                          feet for each additional unit
        L-4   Planned develop- ments                                     2 acres                        400                                                                     30                                                                      30                                                                     60                                                                      30                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            See §
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       154.222
        M     All other permitted uses listed in                         1.5 acres                      200                                                                     25                                                                      15                                                                     35                                                                      25                                                                     2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet                                            ...
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3
R-4      N     Mobile home parks                                          25 acres                       Bulk regulations for mobile home park development s are listed in §§  Bulk regulations for mobile home park development s are listed in §§  Bulk regulations for mobile home park developments are listed in §§  Bulk regulations for mobile home park development s are listed in §§  Bulk regulations for mobile home park developments are listed in §§  Bulk regulations for mobile home park development s are listed in §§  Bulk regulations for mobile home park developments are listed in §§
                                                                                                         154.366                                                                 154.366                                                                 154.366                                                                154.366                                                                 154.366                                                                154.366                                                                 154.366
               All uses listed in                                                                                                                                                Build regulations for all uses to the RR District are listed in §§    Build regulations for all uses to the RR District are listed in §§   Build regulations for all uses to the RR District are listed in §§    Build regulations for all uses to the RR District are listed in §§
RR       O     Appendix A, columns 2 and 3                                                              200                                                                     154.035 through                                                         154.035 through                                                        154.035 through                                                         154.035 through                                                                                                                               960
                                                                                                                                                                                 154.040                                                                 154.040                                                                154.040                                                                 154.040
C-1      P-1   Animal kennels/ animal hospitals                           2 acres                        150                                                                     75                                                                      50                                                                     100                                                                     50                                                                     35                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         When in or adjacent to a commerc ial zone or use, no side yard setback
        P-2   Gasoline stations and service stations                     15,000                         140                                                                     40                                                                      is required but when provided, each side yard shall be 25 feet; when   25                                                                                                                                            35                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         adjacent to a residential zone or use, the side yard shall be 25 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         When in or adjacent to a commer- cial zone or use, no side yard
        P-3   Office developments                                        3 acres                        100                                                                     35                                                                      setback is required but when provided, each side yard shall be 25      35                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         feet; when adjacent to a residential zone or use, the side yard shall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         be 25 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         When in or adjacent to a commer-cial zone or use, no side yard setback
        P-4   Shopping centers                                           5 acres                        100                                                                     35                                                                      is required but when provided, each side yard shall be 25 feet; when   35                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         adjacent to a residential zone or use, the side yard shall be 25 feet
               All other permitted uses listed in                                                                                                                                                                                                        When in or adjacent to a commerc ial zone or use, no side yard setback
        P-5   Appendix A, columns 2 and 3                                1.5 acres                      100                                                                     35                                                                      is required but when provided, each side yard shall be 25 feet; when   35                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         adjacent to a resident-ial zone or use, the side yard shall be 25 feet
C-2      Q-1   Gasoline stations and service stations                     15,000                         140                                                                     40                                                                      25 (see note 3)                                                        50 (see note 3)                                                         50                                                                     35 feet                                                                  
        Q-2   Car wash establish- ments                                  10,000                         150                                                                     40                                                                      25 (see note 3)                                                        50 (see note 3)                                                         50                                                                     35 feet                                                                  
        Q-3   All other permitted uses listed in                         1.5 acres                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3
I-1      R     All other permitted uses listed in                         1.5 acres                      150                                                                     40                                                                      20 (see note 3)                                                        40 (see note)                                                           40                                                                     35 feet                                                                  
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3
I-2      S-1   Junkyards                                                  5 acres                        300                                                                     100                                                                     100 (see note 3)                                                       200 (see note 3)                                                        100                                                                    35 feet                                                                  
        S-2   Disposal sites for hazardous and liquid materials          10 acres                       300                                                                     100                                                                     100 (see note 3)                                                       200 (see note 3)                                                        100                                                                    35 feet                                                                  
        S-3   Sanitary landfills                                         10 acres                       300                                                                     100                                                                     100 (see note 3)                                                       200 (see note 3)                                                        100                                                                    35 feet                                                                  
        S-4   All other permitted uses listed in                         1.5 acres                      150                                                                     40                                                                      25 (see note 3)                                                        50 (see note 3)                                                         50                                                                     35 feet                                                                  
               Appendix A, columns 2 and 3.
                                                                          Uses located within this
               Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with    overlay zone shall comply with
               the bulk requirements of the primary zoning district in    the bulk requirements of the   Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with the bulk        Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with the bulk        Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with the bulk       Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with the bulk        Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with the bulk       Uses located within this overlay zone shall comply with the bulk
AP             which they are located. In addition, the specific          primary zoning district in     requirements of the primary zoning district in which they are located.  requirements of the primary zoning district in which they are located.  requirements of the primary zoning district in which they are located. requirements of the primary zoning district in which they are located.  requirements of the primary zoning district in which they are located. requirements of the primary zoning district in which they are located.
(Overlay T     requirements of §§                                       which they are located. In     In addition, the specific requirements of §§                          In addition, the specific requirements of §§                          In addition, the specific requirements of §§                         In addition, the specific requirements of §§                          In addition, the specific requirements of §§                         In addition, the specific requirements of §§                           
Zone)          154.055 through                                            addition, the specific         154.055 through                                                         154.055 through                                                         154.055 through                                                        154.055 through                                                         154.055 through                                                        154.055 through
               154.058                                                    requirements of §§           154.058                                                                 154.058                                                                 154.058                                                                154.058                                                                 154.058                                                                154.058
                                                                          154.055 through
                                                                          154.058
 
 
Notes:  
1. All supplemental requirements set forth in §§
154.205 through
154.231 and
154.245 through
154.274 shall be observed. All off-street parking, signs, lighting & screening
requirements, and the like, contained therein shall be enforced.
2. In the Ag-1 district, all non-agricultural dwellings, as defined in §
154.006, shall comply with the provisions of the Appendix B for single family
dwelling units in Group A, and other regulations for dwellings in the Ag-
1 district.
3. The required yard shall be doubled when adjacent to a residential district
or residential use.
4 .All accessory buildings must be set back ten feet from any property line and
five feet from any building; except that all accessory buildings & accessory
off-street parking are generally prohibited in the required front yard. (§
154.252).
 
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-13-2022; Ord. 23-4, passed 2-9-2023; Ord. 24-6, passed
1-11-2024, § 4)
CHAPTER 155: LAND SUBDIVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Interpretation
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Applicability
   
155.005   Definitions
Lot Splits
   
155.006   Sketch plat for lot splits
Procedures
   
155.007   Approvals
   
155.008   Preplat discussion
   
155.009   Preliminary plats
   
155.010   Preliminary plat requirements
   
155.011   Submission of preliminary plats
   
155.012   Planning Commission public hearing and project review
   
155.013   Township Board Step I review, preliminary plat
   
155.014   Township Board Step II review, preliminary plat
   
155.015   Final plat approval
   
155.016   Buildings and sales
Required Content
   
155.017   Preliminary plat
   
155.018   Final plat
Required Improvements in Subdivisions
   
155.019   Subject to requirements of township
   
155.020   Improvements
   
155.021   Cost distribution of oversized improvements
General Provisions for All Subdivisions
   
155.022   Master plan
   
155.023   Streets
   
155.024   Lots
   
155.025   Block lengths
   
155.026   Public easements
   
155.027   Public sites and open spaces
   
155.028   Performance guarantees
   
155.029   Law
   
155.030   Inspection and specifications
Grounds and Procedure for a Variance
   
155.031   Grounds for a variance
   
155.032   Procedure for a variance
Validity, Administration, and Enforcement
   
155.033   Administration
   
155.034   Validity
   
155.035   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Land Subdivision Ordinance" of the
Township of Sparta.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.002 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of public
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare. It shall be administered to
insure orderly growth and development, to protect, and conserve land and
natural features, and adequately provide for streets, utilities, and other land
improvements in the township.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to regulate the subdivision of land to accomplish
the following purposes:
   (A)   To carry out the purpose and intent of the Subdivision Control Act of
1967, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 560.10, as amended;
   (B)   To further the orderly layout and development of the township;
   (C)   To provide for and regulate the economical provision or extension of
utility services, streets, and other necessary land improvements;
   (D)   To require that land be suitable and suitably improved for building
sites;
   (E)   To provide for adequate drainage;
   (F)   To prevent the premature development of land;
   (G)   To provide for proper ingress and egress to lots;
   (H)   To promote proper surveying and legal descriptions;
   (I)   To provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and traffic
movement;
   (J)   To insure against the creation of unsafe or undesirable conditions;
   (K)   To conserve the value of property;
   (L)   To regulate the density of development in relation to the availability
of, or the lack of, utilities services;
   (M)   To conserve energy and natural features;
   (N)   To carry out the purpose and intent of the Township Master Plan and
Zoning Ordinance;
   (O)   To establish rules and procedures for the rational development of land
within the township;
   (P)   To provide for the adoption of improvement standards;
   (Q)   To provide penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.004 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to any project which results in the creation of
five or more lots or building sites, each of which is ten acres or less in
area, whether such development is accomplished in one phase or in successive
phases within a period of ten years, unless such project is proposed to be
developed under the township's site condominium ordinance. This chapter shall
not apply to the development of land wherein such development results in lots
or building sites which are more than ten acres in area.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, terms shall be defined as set forth in the
Subdivision Control Act of 1967 and as defined herein:
   BOARD. The Sparta Township Board.
   COMMISSION. The Sparta Township Planning Commission.
   LOT SPLIT.
      (1)   The combination of existing lots in a recorded plat into one
parcel;
      (2)   The alteration of an existing lot line(s) in a recorded plat which
does not change the number of lots;
      (3)   The elimination of one existing lot within a recorded plat
combining it with not more than four immediately adjacent lots. Adjacent shall
not include lots separated by any road right-of-way or easement or unplatted
lots.
      (4)   The term LOT SPLIT shall not include the creation of new parcels of
more than ten acres, or the creation of parcels defined as a subdivision.
   OUTLOT. A lot in a recorded plat which is set aside for purposes other than
a building site, park, or other land dedicated to public use or reserved to
private use.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision to an approving authority for the purposes of preliminary
consideration and approval.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT. A map and accompanying material showing or explaining
the salient features of a proposed subdivision to an approving authority for
the purposes of final consideration and approval.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or combination of any of them which may hold any ownership interest in land
whether recorded or not.
   STREET. The types of streets shall be as defined in the Sparta Township
Master Plan.
   SUBDIVISION or SUBDIVIDE. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel of tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, for the purpose
of sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development, where the
act of division creates five or more parcels of land, each of which is ten
acres or less in area; or five or more parcels of land, each of which is ten
acres or less in area, are created by successive divisions within a period of
ten years.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. Public Act 288, the Subdivision Control Act of
1967, as amended.
   TOWNSHIP. Sparta Township, Kent County, Michigan.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
LOT SPLITS
§ 155.006 SKETCH PLAT FOR LOT SPLITS.
   Before a lot split shall be effected by any owner of land or his or her
agent, four copies or prints of a sketch plat of the proposed subdivision shall
be submitted to the Building Inspector for approval. The following procedures
shall be followed:
   (A)   Said sketch plat shall be drawn to scale and shall show the original
parcel of land, of which such lot in question is a part, in full, the lot to be
created, any building located on or within 40 feet of such new lot(s), and the
names of the owner and the owners of all adjoining land. Dimensions to the
nearest foot shall be shown on all lot lines and existing buildings and the
distances between buildings and lot lines shall be shown.
   (B)   The resulting lot or lots of any lot split shall comply with all the
original requirements for lots within the plat as provided by this chapter and
any other township ordinances.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall review the proposed lot split and
determine if it complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the zoning
ordinance. He shall approve the lot split and shall certify such approval and
the date thereof by signing said copies of the sketch plat. The Building
Inspector shall forward one approved copy to the supervisor and return one
signed copy to the owner or his or her agent.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
PROCEDURES
§ 155.007 APPROVALS.
   The following procedure must be completed in order for a subdivision to
receive approval by the township:
   (A)   Preliminary plat approval by the Planning Commission;
   (B)   Preliminary plat approval by the Township Board – Step I;
   (C)   Preliminary plat approval by the Township Board – Step II;
   (D)   Final plat approval by the Township Board.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.008 PREPLAT DISCUSSION.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation of the preliminary plat, there should take
place a preplat discussion meeting between the proprietor and the Planning
Commission. The purpose of this meeting is to inform the Planning Commission of
a proprietor's intent to initiate a subdivision. On or before this meeting, the
proprietor should submit the following to the Commission:
      (1)   Several copies of a sketch, to scale, indicating the general
location and configuration of the property to be subdivided; the alignment of
streets and lots; and the relationship of the proposed plat to adjacent streets
and neighboring properties;
      (2)   A statement regarding the provision of sewer service and water
supply;
      (3)   In a plat to be located in the AG-1 zone, the site sketch shall
show any and all farms within one-half mile of the sites.
   (B)   During the preplat discussion meeting, the Planning Commission may
discuss generally with the proprietor the following:
      (1)   General requirements of this chapter and the zoning ordinance;
      (2)   Planned or anticipated sites of parks and recreation areas and
other public uses;
      (3)   Utility system capabilities;
      (4)   Planned or anticipated public improvements, including streets,
utility extensions, and the like;
      (5)   Existence of farms on the surrounding property, which includes the
possibility that future residents of the project may experience unwanted farm
production practices, such as noises, smells, fertilizers, and pesticides;
      (6)   Major street plans and potential problems relative to the natural
features of the area including, but not limited to, floodplains, soil
conditions, topography, and groundwater tables;
      (7)   Additional information which will assist the proprietor in
proceeding in a reasonable and sound manner toward final plat approval.
   (C)   Preplat discussions are intended for information purposes only and do
not constitute binding commitments on the part of the township. Neither do they
imply tentative approval of any subsequent preliminary plat. Furthermore, such
discussions shall not carry the authority to proceed with construction or to
sell or transfer property.
   (D)   In the event the proprietor does not elect to undertake preplat
discussions with the Planning Commission, the proprietor is encouraged to
contact the Township Supervisor, Building Inspector or other township officials
prior to initiating a preliminary plat for the purposes of discussing the items
listed above.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.009 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   The preliminary plat approval procedure is intended to assure the township
that the proprietor is proceeding toward a final plat which will conform to all
applicable regulations and be acceptable to the township and other approving
agencies. Approval of the preliminary plat by the township shall not relieve
the proprietor from obtaining the necessary approvals from other agencies
having jurisdiction over other aspects of the plat.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.010 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   Preliminary plats shall be prepared in accord with Sections 111 through 120
of the Subdivision Control Act, as amended, and §§
155.017 and
155.018 of this chapter. Preliminary plats prepared for Planning Commission
review and Step I approval by the Township Board shall include or be
accompanied by items of §
155.017. In addition to the review required in §
155.011, the proprietor or his or her agent shall submit copies of the
preliminary plat to the appropriate agencies as required in Sections 113
through 119 of the Subdivision Control Act, as amended.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.011 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   Preliminary plats shall be submitted to the Township Clerk at least three
weeks prior to the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission. The
following procedure shall be followed:
   (A)   Submit ten copies of the preliminary plat to the Township Clerk;
   (B)   Submit to the Township Clerk a filing fee as established by the
Township Board resolution;
   (C)   An application form shall be completed which, at a minimum, shall
contain the following information:
      (a)   The applicant's name, address, and phone number;
      (b)   Proof that the applicant is the owner of the property or has a
legal or financial interest in the property such as an option or a purchase
agreement;
      (c)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner(s) of record if
different than the applicant;
      (d)   The address and/or parcel number of the property;
      (e)   Project description;
      (f)   Gross and net size of the parcel in acres.
   (D)   The Township Clerk shall retain one copy of the preliminary plat, and
forward copies to the Planning Commission, and if deemed necessary, the
Township Engineer and Planner.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.012 PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING AND PROJECT REVIEW.
   (A)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the preliminary plat. The hearing shall be noticed in accordance with the
following procedures:
      (1)   Notices. Upon receipt of the application, one notice that a request
for a subdivision has been received shall be published within a newspaper of
general circulation within the township. Such notice shall also be sent by mail
or by personal delivery to all owners of property to whom real property is
assessed as indicated in the township records, to all occupants of all
structures within 300 feet of the boundary of the property that is the subject
of the application and to the petitioner.
      (2)   Notice timing. Such notice must be given no less than five days nor
more than 15 days before the date the application will be considered.
      (3)   Notification items. The notice shall include the following:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the project requested;
         (b)   Indicate the property which is subject of the request;
         (c)   State when and where the request will be considered;
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Commission; review. In reviewing the plat, the Planning Commission
shall give particular attention to the requirements of §§
155.017 and
155.018. If the plat meets the requirements of this chapter, the Planning
Commission shall give it preliminary approval. The Secretary of the Planning
Commission shall forward one copy of the plat along with a notation indicating
preliminary approval and any recommendations to the Township Board for Step I
approval.
   (C)   If the plat does not meet the requirements of this chapter, the
Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Deny preliminary plat approval, setting forth the reasons in
writing; or
      (2)   Grant preliminary plat approval contingent upon completion of the
revisions as noted.
   (D)   The Secretary of the Planning Commission shall forward one copy of the
preliminary plat along with the Planning Commission's recommendations to the
applicant and one copy to the Township Board. The Township Board shall act upon
the application within 90 days after it has been filed with the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.013 TOWNSHIP BOARD STEP I REVIEW, PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   After receipt of the preliminary plat and recommendations from the Planning
Commission, the Township Board shall consider the preliminary plat at its next
meeting, or within 20 days from the date of receipt from the Planning
Commission.
   (A)   The Township Board shall consider the preliminary plat along with the
recommendations of the Planning Commission. If the plat meets the preliminary
plat requirements of this chapter, the Board shall grant Step I preliminary
plat approval. The Township Clerk shall sign the plat with the notation that it
has received Step I approval and the proprietor shall be so notified. Step I
approval shall give the proprietor the following rights for a one year period
from the date of approval:
      (1)   That the general terms and conditions under which Step I approval
was granted will not be changed by the township;
      (2)   That the lot sizes, lot orientation, and street layout have been
approved;
      (3)   That Step I approval may be extended if applied for by the
proprietor prior to the one year expiration date and granted by the Township
Board in writing.
   (B)   If the preliminary plat substantially meets the requirements of this
chapter, the Township Board may grant tentative approval of Step I, such
approval being conditioned upon the submission of such changes, revisions or
additional material as is determined to be necessary to complete Step I. Upon
the submission of such changes, revisions, or additional material, the
preliminary plat shall be granted unconditional Step I approval and the
proprietor shall be so notified.
   (C)   If the preliminary plat does not meet the requirements of this
chapter, the Township Board shall deny Step I approval and so notify the
proprietor along with the reasons therefor.
   (D)   If the information required for Step II approval as contained in §
155.014 is submitted during Step I review, the Township Board may grant Step II
approval if all such requirements are met.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.014 TOWNSHIP BOARD STEP II REVIEW, PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   After the Township Board has granted Step I approval, the applicant
shall submit the preliminary plat to all agencies as required by Sections 112
to 119 of the Subdivision Control Act, as amended.
   (B)   (1)   The plat plan shall then be corrected to reflect the
recommendations of the Planning Commission and the above agencies.
   (2)   The applicant shall then submit the necessary copies of the project
plan to the Township Clerk along with a completed application form for Step II
approval and any fee established by the Township Board. The applicant shall
also submit the following:
         (a)   Documentation that the above agencies have approved the plat, as
applicable;
         (b)   A copy of any deed restrictions or covenants that will be
enforceable against persons using any portion of the plat;
         (c)   A copy of any preliminary agreements which may be required
before final plat approval is granted.
   (C)   The Clerk shall forward copies of the plan to the Township Planner,
Township Attorney, the Township Engineer and others as deemed appropriate, for
their review and recommendation.
   (D)   The Township Board shall review the plat plans along with other
submitted materials and the recommendation of the Township Attorney, Engineer
and Planner. If the Board determines that all requirements of this chapter have
been met, it shall grant Step II approval and shall notify the applicant in
writing of this approval. Plat approval shall also be noted on the copy of the
plat to be returned to the applicant.
   (E)   (1)   Step II approval shall be valid for a period of two years from
the date of approval and guarantees the following rights:
         (a)   That the general terms and conditions under which Step II
approval was granted will not be changed and the applicant may proceed with the
installation of required improvements;
         (b)   That the proprietor may submit all or parts of the Step II
approved preliminary plat as a final plat in accordance with the Subdivision
Control Act, as amended, and this chapter.
      (2)   The two year period may be extended if applied for by the
proprietor and granted by the township in writing. Written notice of the
extension shall be sent by the Township Clerk to the other approving
authorities.
   (F)   If the preliminary plat substantially meets the requirements of this
chapter, the Township Board may grant tentative approval of Step II, such
approval being conditioned upon the submission of such changes, revisions, or
additional materials as is determined to be necessary to complete Step II. Upon
the submission of such changes, revisions, or additional material, the
preliminary plat shall be granted unconditional Step II approval and the
proprietor shall be so notified. Upon the conditions having been met, final
Step II approval shall be given. Final Step II preliminary plat approval shall
also be noted on the copy of the preliminary plat to be returned to the
proprietor.
   (G)   If the preliminary plat does not meet the requirements of this
chapter, the Township Board shall deny Step II approval and so notify the
proprietor along with the reasons therefor.
   (H)   Installation of all plat improvements authorized by Step II approval
shall be in accord with the requirement of the appropriate agency or utility
having jurisdiction.
      (1)   Kent County Road Commission: public streets, sidewalks and storm
sewers;
      (2)   Kent County Health Department: wells and septic systems;
      (3)   Kent County Drain Commission: drains and drainage from the plat;
      (4)   Village of Sparta and/or Algoma Township: as the case may be,
public sanitary sewer and public water;
      (5)   Consumers Power Company: electrical and street lights;
      (6)   Michigan Bell Telephone Company: telephone;
      (7)   Michigan Consolidated Gas Company: gas.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.015 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   Within two years from the date of Step II approval of the preliminary plat,
the proprietor shall prepare and submit a final plat containing all the
certificates, signatures, and specifications required by the Subdivision
Control Act.
   (A)   After the signature of the surveyor, proprietor, County Treasurer,
Township Treasurer (if necessary), County Drain Commissioners, and the County
Road Commission are obtained, the proprietor shall submit the final plat to the
Township Clerk at least two weeks prior to the next regular meeting of the
Township Board. The proprietor shall also submit the following:
      (1)   A $20 filing and recording fee as required in Section 241 of the
Subdivision Control Act together with a fee as set by resolution of the
Township Board;
      (2)   One copy of as-built plans of all completed improvements;
      (3)   All final agreements and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Letters of approval from all applicable agencies or utilities
listed in §
155.014(H) stating that improvements have been properly installed and
inspected, and inspection fees paid, or that performance bonds or other similar
surety have been submitted for uncompleted improvements.
   (B)   The Clerk shall review the final plat and associated material for
compliance with all the requirements of §
155.013.
   (C)   If all submissions are found acceptable, the Clerk shall submit the
same to the Township Board at its next regular meeting for approval.
   (D)   The Board shall approve or reject said final plat and associated
material, and, if approved, shall instruct the Clerk to certify such approval
together with the date thereof. When required, the Clerk shall also certify
upon the final plat the approval and date of Health Department approval on the
approved preliminary plat.
   (E)   The Clerk shall thereupon promptly forward all copies of the final
plat to the Clerk of the County Plat Board together with the $20 filing and
recording fee.
   (F)   When the final plat is returned by the State Treasurer with a
certification of approval, the final plat shall be recorded as a plat of
record.
   (G)   If the final plat and associated material are not found acceptable,
the Clerk shall so notify the proprietor who shall arrange for correction,
modification, or additional guarantees to satisfy the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.016 BUILDINGS AND SALES.
   Until recorded as a plat of record, a property is unsubdivided. No more than
one principle building may be constructed on such parcel, except that where
streets and other improvements have been installed in accordance with the Step
II approved preliminary plat, such streets shall be deemed to have subdivided
the plat into blocks; and one principle building may be constructed upon each
block so formed. Sale of any lot or portion of said parcel, unless by an entire
block, shall not be made until approval of the final plat.
   (A)   Where a proprietor desires to construct additional buildings before
improvements are completed and before the final plat is approved by the
township, he or she shall submit proof of performance guaranty to the Township
Board for approval. Said performance guaranty shall cover the entire cost of
installing the remaining improvements plus an amount sufficient to pay all
inspection costs. The performance guaranty shall be either an irrevocable
letter of credit or a cash bond in proper form as approved by the Township
Board and which shall have a specific time limit noted for installation of all
required improvements.
   (B)   Regardless of the above stipulations on buildings, the Township Board
may restrict building on uncompleted plats if in its opinion premature
construction would not be in the best interests of the township.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall not be authorized to issue any building
permits in an unrecorded plat unless otherwise authorized by the Township Board
under these provisions.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
REQUIRED CONTENT
§ 155.017 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be designed in accordance with the provisions of
§§
155.019 to
155.021,
155.022 to
155.030, and
155.031 and
155.032; the requirements of the Subdivision Control Act; and, where
applicable, the requirements of the County Health Department, the Drain
Commission, the County Road Commission, the Department of Natural Resources,
the Department of State Highways and Transportation, and the Water Resources
Commission. The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of not more than 100
feet to the inch and shall include or be accompanied by the following
information:
   (A)   The name of the plat; the name, address, and telephone number of the
proprietor; the name, address, and seal of the surveyor; and a description of
the property to be subdivided;
   (B)   A key map showing the location and position of the property and its
relationship to surrounding streets and the surrounding area, including
existing zoning of abutting areas;
   (C)   North arrow, scale, contour interval, and legend when appropriate;
   (D)   Contour elevations adjusted to USGS datum at not more than five foot
intervals;
   (E)   Where appropriate, established floodplain contours and elevations
adjusted to USGS datum;
   (F)   The location of all existing streets, lots, plats, public utilities,
drains, streams, or bodies of water on or abutting the property;
   (G)   The outlines, intended layout, and intended use of the entire property
owned or represented by the proprietor. The following shall be included:
      (1)   Street and stub street right-of-way-location, width, and curve
radii;
      (2)   Proposed street names;
      (3)   Lot lines, lot line dimensions to the nearest foot, lot and block
numbers, and lot areas to the nearest 100 square feet.
   (H)   The location and dimensions of all existing or proposed easements or
reserve strips, including electrical cable TV and telephone easements;
   (I)   The locations and tentative sizes of proposed sanitary sewers, storm
sewers, and catch basins, water mains, culverts, bridges, ponding area, ponds,
lagoons, slips, waterways, lakes, bays, and canals;
   (J)   Statements regarding:
      (1)   Provision for water and sanitary sewer or septic system;
      (2)   Zoning setback and lot size requirements;
      (3)   Type of street;
      (4)   Intent to install gas, sidewalks, street lights, and shade trees;
      (5)   Use of waterways, rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, or ponds.
   (K)   Copy of any proposed or required deed restrictions or covenants.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.018 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared as required by the Subdivision
Control Act, as amended, and submitted to the Township Clerk in accord with §
155.015.
   (B)   The final plat shall also be accompanied by or show the following
additional information:
      (1)   One set of approved as-built or final construction plans for all
required improvements to be kept on file by the township;
      (2)   One copy of the final deed restrictions or restrictive covenants;
      (3)   Deeds to any properties to be dedicated to the township;
      (4)   Performance or installation agreements for any improvements not
controlled or regulated by other agencies, such as sidewalks, street lights, or
shade trees;
      (5)   One copy of any financing arrangements between the township and the
proprietor for the installation of required improvements.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS IN SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.019 SUBJECT TO REQUIREMENTS OF TOWNSHIP.
   All plats shall be subject to the requirements of the Sparta Township Zoning
Ordinance for the zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.020 IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the granting of final plat approval, the proprietor shall have
installed, or have approved plans and agreements for the installation of, the
following improvements:
   (A)   Streets. A plat may be served by either a public or private road
system. A public road shall be constructed according to the standards of the
Kent County Road Commission. A private road shall be built in accordance with
the standards for private roads as set forth in the Sparta Township Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Water and sanitary sewer. Provisions for sanitary sewer or private
septic systems and provisions for water, either from a public system private
wells or community well shall be in compliance with applicable county, state
and federal regulations.
   (C)   Sewers and drainage. Catch basins and storm sewers of a size specified
by the Kent County Road Commission and outletting from the subdivision in a
method, and to a drainage system, approved by the Kent County Drain
Commissioner. The drainage system may also be approved by the Township
Engineer.
   (D)   Electric and telephone conduits. Underground electrical and telephone
conduits together with connection terminals available at each lot.
   (E)   Street lights. Street lights may be required by the township in
accordance with the rules of Consumers Power Company.
   (F)   Gas service. Where available, gas distribution lines beneath the
street prior to the paving and curbing of any street at locations adequate to
serve each lot by connections thereto without the further installation of gas
lines beneath such streets.
   (G)   Sidewalks. The Planning Commission may recommend and the Township
Board may approve, sidewalks in accordance with the standards of the Kent
County Road Commission. In considering the need for sidewalks, the following
criteria shall be considered:
      (1)   The amount of current and future pedestrian traffic passing by the
site;
      (2)   Whether a sidewalk would enhance the safety of pedestrians
currently walking by the site as well as the safety of future pedestrians;
      (3)   The existing and future volume of traffic on the street abutting
the site;
      (4)   The existence or probability of sidewalks being constructed on
adjacent properties in order to create or complete a usable sidewalk system;
      (5)   The location of the proposed use;
      (6)   The location of pedestrian attractors such as schools, churches,
public buildings, and shopping opportunities.
   (H)   Monuments. Monuments shall conform to the Subdivision Control Act of
1967, as amended.
   (I)   Street signs. Street signs shall be placed at all intersections within
or abutting the subdivision. The name, type, and location shall be specified or
approved by the Kent County Road Commission.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.021 COST DISTRIBUTION OF OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Where the township requires that a given improvement be increased in
size, length, or depth to meet the needs of other areas, arrangements shall be
made with the township or its agent prior to installation, or prior to approval
of, a final plat for the additional costs thereof.
   (B)   Township funds for permanent investment in these improvements are
limited, and nothing contained herein shall serve to obligate the township for
these costs. Extension of utilities or improvements smaller than an eight-inch
sanitary sewer line and a six-inch public water line is prohibited unless it is
determined by the Township Board that such size will not be reasonably needed
to serve any proposed service area.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.022 MASTER PLAN.
   All subdivisions shall conform to the provisions and conditions of the
master plan and zoning map for future development of the township except as may
be modified by this chapter.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.023 STREETS.
   All streets shall conform in direction and alignment with the master plan
and shall connect with existing streets without jogs or sharp angles. The
following requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Stub or outlet streets. Stub streets or outlets to adjacent
undeveloped property shall be fully improved, including drainage and utilities
as required for all other streets in the subdivision.
   (B)   Dead end streets.
      (1)   Dead end streets shall not exceed 800 feet in length unless a paved
secondary access street is provided to the public street system. The Planning
Commission however may approve a longer dead end street after consideration of
the following criteria:
         (a)   Number and size of buildings and/or dwelling units which make up
the project;
         (b)   Type of interior roadway serving the project;
         (c)   Interior circulation system;
         (d)   Topography and other natural features of the site;
         (e)   Amount of frontage on a public street;
         (f)   Adjacent land uses;
         (g)   Feasibility of achieving a secondary means of access;
         (h)   Comments of the Township Fire Chief;
         (i)   Availability of public utilities;
         (j)   Approval of the Kent County Road Commission.
      (2)   In no case, however, shall a dead end street be more than 2,000
feet long without another means of access.
      (3)   Private roads shall comply with requirements for private roads in
the Sparta Township Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips along major streets may be required by
the Planning Commission to be dedicated to the township or county to prohibit
access upon the major street from a specified lot or lots.
   (D)   Offsets. Offsetting streets at an intersection are prohibited unless
the centerlines thereof are offset at least 125 feet. Such offsets shall be
subject to township approval and the approval of the Road Commission.
   (E)   Streets shall be designed in such a way to promote reasonable access
to the plat and any further development that may occur.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.024 LOTS.
   Every lot shall face upon a dedicated street or private street. The
following requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Lot depth. No lot shall be less than 125 feet in depth at any point.
   (B)   Shape. No lot shall be of such a shape as to require a possible
variance from the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Double frontage. No lot shall be bounded on opposite sides by streets
except that on a major arterial street the Planning Commission may require that
abutting lots face upon a local street and that a reserve strip be provided to
prohibit access upon such major arterial street.
   (D)   Suitability. Where there is a question as to the suitability of a lot
or lots for their intended use due to factors such as soil formations, flood
conditions, floodplains, high water table, or similar circumstances, the
Planning Commission shall after adequate investigation withhold approval of
such lots. Such lots shall be combined with other lots in such a manner as to
prohibit future subdivisions.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.025 BLOCK LENGTHS.
   Blocks shall generally be between 600 feet and 1,000 feet in length. Side
streets or outlets or streets to adjoining property may be required at a lesser
interval if deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.026 PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course or open drain, there
shall be provided a public easement of such a width as determined by the County
Drain Commissioner. There shall be required 20-foot public easements along the
lot lines of a block for utility facilities, drainage, walkways, access to
public land, or similar needs of the community. Easements may be required to be
dedicated to the township or county.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.027 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school, street, or other public use shown
in the master plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the
Planning Commission shall bring the same to the attention of the proprietor and
the Township Board so that they may address the question of acquiring such
areas by dedication, reservation, or payment.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.028 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   The Township Board may require formal agreements or the posting of an
irrevocable letter of credit, certified check, or cash bond or such other
surety sufficient to guaranty the proper performance of required improvements
or materials to meet the provisions and the intent of this chapter. Where a
bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or certified check is provided, it shall be
of such form as approved by the Township Board.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.029 LAW.
   The requirements, procedures, regulations, and powers set forth in the
Subdivision Control Act of 1967, as amended, shall apply except as provided by
this chapter.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.030 INSPECTION AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Township Board may establish inspection fees, inspection
requirements, specification standards and administrative procedures as provided
by law and such shall be deemed to be requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All plans and installations of improvements called for shall be
subject to the approval of the township or its agent, or such other competent
persons as designated by the township. All inspection fees shall be paid by the
proprietor before the final plat is signed by the township unless adequate
sureties or deposits to cover these expenses are given to the township prior to
final plat approval.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
GROUNDS AND PROCEDURE FOR A VARIANCE
§ 155.031 GROUNDS FOR A VARIANCE.
   (A)   If the applicant can clearly demonstrate that literal enforcement of
this chapter is impractical or will impose undue hardship in the use of the
land because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land that were not
created by the applicant or his or her predecessors in title, the Township
Board may permit such variances as, in its sound discretion, it believes to be
reasonable and within the general purpose and policy of this chapter. A
financial hardship or gain shall not of itself be sufficient.
   (B)   In making the findings required below, the Board shall consider the
recommendations of the Planning Commission, the location and condition of the
proposed project, the nature of the proposed variance as compared with the
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed project, and the probable effect of the proposed project and
variances on traffic conditions, public health, and safety in the vicinity.
   (C)   No variance shall be granted unless the Board finds that all of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to state or
county regulations or township ordinances, detrimental to the public welfare,
or injurious to other property in the area in which said property is situated.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.032 PROCEDURE FOR A VARIANCE.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit an application for a variance to the
Township Clerk on a form provided by the Clerk. The application fee shall be
the same as provided by the Township Board for zoning variances. The
application shall be submitted at least ten days before the regularly scheduled
meeting of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Clerk shall forward the application and all associated materials
to the Planning Commission and to the Township Engineer, Planner or Attorney as
necessary.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and notice shall
include, and shall be given in accordance with §
155.012.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to approve, deny
or modify the variance request to the Township Board stating its reasons for
the recommendations. The Commission shall rely on the criteria of §
155.032 above in making its recommendation.
   (E)   The Township Board shall consider the recommendation of the Planning
Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting following the Planning
Commission's recommendation and shall approve, deny or modify the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
VALIDITY, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.033 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Township Supervisor, Township
Zoning Administrator, or their designated agent(s). The rules, regulations, and
standards imposed by this chapter shall be considered to be the minimum
requirements for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the township; and in interpreting and applying them, primary
consideration shall be given to these factors.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.034 VALIDITY.
   If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
chapter is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
§ 155.035 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Township Supervisor, Township
Zoning Administrator, or their designated agent(s).
   (B)   Violations; municipal civil infractions. Any person, corporation,
firm, or other entity who violates any provision of this chapter is responsible
for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not
less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each violation, as
authorized by Ordinance 96-4, as amended, and other applicable laws. Repeat
offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines in the amounts
as provided by Section 2(c)(2) of Ordinance 96-4, as amended.
   (C)   Actions to restrain or prevent violations. The Township Board may
bring an action in its own name in the Circuit Court to restrain or prevent any
violation of this chapter or any continuance of any such violation. Any
violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance per se. Such action shall
be brought in the county where the land is located, the defendant resides, or
has his or her principal place of business.
(Ord. 93-8, effective 1-20-1994)
CHAPTER 156: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
Title, Purpose, and Standards
   
156.01   Short title
   
156.02   Intent
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Delineation of the Flood Hazard Area Zone
   
156.05   Development permit
   
156.06   General standards for flood hazard reduction
   
156.07   Specific base flood elevation standards
   
156.08   Mobile home standards in flood areas
   
156.09   Standards for areas of shallow flooding
   
156.10   Floodway protection standards
   
156.11   Disclaimer of liability
   
156.12   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.20   Floodplain management administrative duties
   
156.21   Flood hazard area application information
TITLE, PURPOSE, AND STANDARDS
§ 156.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Flood Hazard Areas Ordinance.”
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.02 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to significantly reduce hazards to
persons and damage to property as a result of flood conditions in the township,
and to comply with the provisions and requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program, as amended, as constituted in accord with the National Flood
Insurance Act of 1968, and subsequent enactments and the rules and regulations
promulgated in furtherance of this program by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, as published in the Federal Register, Vol. 41, No. 207, Thursday, 10-
26-1976, and redesignated at 44 FR 31177, 5-31-1979.
   (B)   Further, the objectives of this chapter include:
      (1)   The protection of human life, health and property from the
dangerous and damaging effects of flood conditions;
      (2)   The minimization of public expenditures for flood control projects,
rescue and relief efforts in the aftermath of flooding, repair of flood-damaged
public facilities and utilities, and the redevelopment of flood-damaged homes,
neighborhoods, commercial and industrial areas;
      (3)   The prevention of private and public economic loss and social
disruption as a result of flood conditions;
      (4)   The maintenance of stable development patterns not subject to the
blighting influence of flood damage;
      (5)   To ensure that the public has access to Information indicating the
location of land areas subject to periodic flooding; and
      (6)   To preserve the ability of floodplains to carry and discharge a
base flood.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths of from one to three feet,
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source;
         (c)   Mudflows; and
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels, or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event that
results in flooding, as defined in division (1)(a) of this definition.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land that, on the basis of available flood plain
information, is subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, as may
have been issued by the FEMA, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as Zone A, M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk-premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration. The report contains flood profiles, flood boundaries, flood
insurance rate zones and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see the definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, a grading ordinance or an erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power that provide standards for
flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
gas or liquid storage facility, as well as a mobile home or a manufactured
unit.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.04 DELINEATION OF THE FLOOD HAZARD AREA ZONE.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Flood Hazard Area Zone shall coincide with the
boundaries of the areas indicated as within the limits of the 100-year flood as
shown on the Flood Insurance Study for Kent County, all jurisdictions, and
dated February 23, 2023, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panel numbers
shown on the index panels: 26081CIND1A and 26081CIND2A, effective February 23,
2023. As used in this chapter, the term FLOOD HAZARD AREA shall mean the Flood
Hazard Area Zone.
   (B)   In addition to other requirements of the zoning ordinance, compliance
with the requirements of this chapter shall be necessary for all development
occurring within the Flood Hazard Area Zone. Conflicts between the requirements
of this chapter and other requirements of the zoning ordinance or any other
ordinance shall be resolved in favor of this chapter, except where the
conflicting requirement is more stringent and would further the objectives of
this chapter to a greater extent than its requirements. In such cases, the more
stringent requirement shall be applied.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   DEVELOPMENT includes any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to, the erection of structures, placement of
mobile homes, filling, grading, mining, dredging, paving, excavation and
storage of equipment or materials within a flood hazard area shall not occur,
except upon issuance of a zoning compliance permit in accord with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance and the following standards:
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall be met;
   (B)   The requirements of the underlying zoning district and other
applicable general provisions of the zoning ordinance must be met; and
   (C)   All necessary development permits shall have been issued by
appropriate local, state and federal authorities, including a floodplain
permit, approval or a letter of no authority from the Michigan Department of
Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, or successor agency, under state law.
Where a development permit cannot be issued prior to the issuance of a zoning
compliance permit, a letter from the issuing agency, indicating intent to issue
contingent only upon proof of zoning compliance, shall be acceptable.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.06 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements within a flood
hazard area, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes, shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated at least
one foot above the base flood elevation, and be designed and anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
   (C)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems, and discharges from
systems into flood waters. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to
avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities shall be designed, constructed and
located to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (E)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (F)   Compliance with the standards of this section shall be certified by a
registered, professional engineer or architect.
   (G)   Land shall not be divided in a manner creating parcels or lots that
cannot be used in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The flood-carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
not subject to state or federal regulations designed to ensure flood-carrying
capacity shall be maintained.
   (I)   Available flood hazard data from federal, state or other sources shall
be reasonably utilized in meeting the standards of this section. Data furnished
by the Federal Insurance Administration shall take precedence over data from
other sources.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.07 SPECIFIC BASE FLOOD ELEVATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   On the basis of the most recent available base flood elevation data,
the following standards shall apply in the Flood Hazard Area Zone.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated one
foot above the base flood level. Substantial improvements must elevate the
entire existing structure and additions one foot above the base flood level.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated to or
above the base flood level.
   (B)   The most recent base flood elevation data received from the Federal
Emergency Management agency shall take precedence over data from other sources.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.08 MOBILE HOME STANDARDS IN FLOOD AREAS.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be elevated one foot above the base flood
elevation and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by
providing over-the-top and frame ties in accord with the following
specifications.
      (1)   Over the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners of
the mobile homes, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations;
except that, on mobile homes less than 50 feet in length, one tie per side
shall be required.
      (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home, with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points; except that, on mobile homes
less than 50 feet in length, four ties per side shall be required.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   All additions to a mobile home shall be similarly elevated and
anchored.
   (B)   An evacuation plan, indicating alternative vehicular access and escape
routes, shall be filed with the County Sheriff’s Department for mobile home
parks and mobile home subdivisions.
   (C)   Mobile homes within Zones A1-30 on the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall
be located in accord with the following standards.
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be placed on stands or lots that are
elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile
home will be one foot above the base flood level.
      (2)   Adequate surface drainage away from all structures and access for a
mobile home hauler shall be provided.
      (3)   In the instance of elevation on pilings, lots shall be large enough
to permit steps; piling foundations shall be placed in stable soil no more than
ten feet apart; and reinforcement shall be provided for piers more than six
feet above ground level.
      (4)   In mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions that exist at the
time this section is adopted, all replacement mobile homes and additions to
existing mobile homes shall be elevated one foot above the 100-year floodplain
elevation.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.09 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   The following standards shall apply in areas of shallow flooding denoted as
AO zones on the FIRM.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated above
the crown of the nearest street or one foot above the base flood elevation,
whichever is higher.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including the basement, elevated one
foot above the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.10 FLOODWAY PROTECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   New construction, substantial improvements and all other development,
including fill, shall be prohibited within the floodway on the FIRM, except
where it is demonstrated to the Zoning Administrator that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not cause any increase in the water surface
elevation of a base flood.
   (B)   The uses of land permitted in an underlying zoning district shall not
be construed as being permitted within the floodway, except upon compliance
with the provisions in this section.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based upon engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. Approval of the use of land under this chapter
shall not be considered a guarantee or warranty of safety from flood damage.
This chapter does not imply that areas outside the flood hazard area will be
free from flood damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the township, or any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.12 FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).
   See Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panel numbers shown on the index panels:
26081CIND1A and 26O81CIND2A, effective February 23, 2023. As used in this
chapter, the term FLOOD HAZARD AREA shall mean the Flood Hazard Area Zone.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.20 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.
   (A)   With regard to the National Flood Insurance Program, and the
regulation of development within the Flood Hazard Area Zone, as prescribed in
§§
156.01 through
156.11 of this chapter, the duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include,
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Obtaining, reviewing, and reasonably utilizing flood elevation data
available from federal, state, or other sources, pending receipt of data from
the FEMA to identify the flood hazard area and areas with potential flooding.
      (2)   Ensuring that all permits necessary for development in floodplain
areas have been issued, including a floodplain permit, approval, or a letter of
no authority from the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and
Energy under the floodplain regulatory provisions of Part 31, “Water Resources
Protection,” of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA
451, as amended.
      (3)   Reviewing all permit applications to determine whether the proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding, Where it is determined
that a proposed building will be located in a flood hazard area or a special
flood hazard area, the Zoning Administrator will notify the Building Inspector.
      (4)   Reviewing all proposed subdivisions to determine whether such
proposals are reasonably safe from flooding, and to ensure compliance with all
applicable floodplain management regulations.
      (5)   Assisting in the delineation of flood hazard areas; providing
information concerning uses and occupancy of the floodplain or flood-related
erosion areas, maintaining floodproofing and lowest floor construction records,
cooperating with other officials, agencies, and persons for floodplain
management.
      (6)   Advising FEMA of any changes in community boundaries, including
appropriate maps.
      (7)   Notification to adjacent communities and the Department of
Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) of the proposed alteration or
relocation of any watercourse, and the submission of such notifications to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
      (8)   All maps pertaining to the National Flood Insurance Program shall
be maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
      (9)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
obtain and utilize the best available flood hazard data for purposes of
administering this chapter in the absence of data from the Federal Insurance
Administration, FEMA, or EGLE.
   (B)   With regard to the National Flood Insurance Program, and the
regulation of development within the Flood Hazard Area Zone, as prescribed in
§§
156.01 through
156.11 of this chapter, the duties of the Building Inspector shall include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Where it is determined that a proposed building will be located in
a flood hazard area or special flood hazard area, the Building Inspector shall
implement the following applicable codes according to their terms:
         (a)   All appropriate portions and specifically the floodplain
management regulation portions and referenced codes and standards of the
current Michigan Residential Code;
         (b)   All appropriate portions and specifically the floodplain
management regulation portions and referenced codes and standards of the
current Michigan Building Code;
         (c)   Appendix G of the current Michigan Building Code; and
         (d)   All appropriate portions and specifically the floodplain
management regulation portions and referenced codes and standards of the
current Michigan Rehabilitation Code for Existing Buildings.
      (2)   Maintaining records of new structures and substantially improved
structures concerning any certificates of floodproofing, lowest floor
elevation, basements, floodproofing, and elevations to which structures have
been floodproofed.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
§ 156.21 FLOOD HAZARD AREA APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   In addition to the information required with an application for a zoning
compliance permit, special use permit or any other type of development
permission required under
Chapter 155, Land Subdivision, the following information shall be submitted as
a part of an application for permission to commence any type of development
within a Flood Hazard Area Zone:
   (A)   The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the floor, including
the basement, of all structures;
   (B)   Where floodproofing will be employed, the elevation in relation to
mean sea level to which a structure will be floodproofed;
   (C)   Where floodproofing will be employed, a certificate from a registered,
professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing criteria of this
chapter will be met;
   (D)   Where it can be determined that development is proposed within zones
A1-30 on the FIRM. a certification as required by this chapter; and
   (E)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 23-2, passed 2-9-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REZONINGS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Description
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Description
154      6-2-1983         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
155      7-7-1983         Rezoning from C-1 and Ag-2 to I-2
159      10-4-1984        Rezoning from C-1 to Ag-2
160      1-3-1985         Rezoning from Ag-2 to C-2
163      10-3-1985        Rezoning from R-4 to Ag-2
164      10-3-1985        Rezoning from Ag-1 to C-2
166      5-1-1986         Rezoning from R-3 to I-1
167      5-1-1986         Rezoning from I-1 to R-1
177      9-3-1987         Rezoning from Ag-1, Ag-2 and C-1 to C-2
178      11-12-1987       Rezoning parts of Sections 12, 13 and 24 to Ag-2
1-88     2-4-1988         Rezoning from Ag-2 to C-2
2-88     2-4-1988         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
2-88     6-2-1988         Rezoning from Ag-2 to C-2
3-88     7-7-1988         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
4-88     7-7-1988         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
5-88A    8-4-1988         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
5-88B    9-1-1988         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
6-88     12-1-1988        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
2-89     4-6-1989         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
6-91     11-7-1991        Rezoning from I-1 to R-1
92-1     2-6-1992         Rezoning from A-2 to C-2
93-1     2-4-1993         Rezoning from C-1 to C-2
93-2     5-20-1993        Rezoning from R-1 to Ag-2
94-1     3-15-1994        Rezoning from I-1 to R-1
94-3     11-17-1994       Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
94-5     12-15-1994       Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
96-2     6-13-1996        Rezoning from R-3 to I-1
98-3     4-22-1998        Rezoning from C-1 to Ag-2
98-4     5-27-1998        Rezoning from C-1 to Ag-2
99-1     2-17-1999        Rezoning from Ag 1 to Ag-2
99-2     3-31-1999        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
99-3     4-15-1999        Rezoning from Ag-2 to R-2
99-4     9-9-1999         Rezoning from Ag-2 to R-2
99-5     9-9-1999         Rezoning from Ag-2 to C-2
99-7     11-11-1999       Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
99-9     12-9-1999        Rezoning from I-1 to Ag-2
00-2     5-11-2000        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
00-2     5-11-2000        Rezoning from Ag-1 to I-1
00-7     11-9-2000        Rezoning from Ag-2 to R-1
00-8     11-9-2000        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
01-08    5-10-2001        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
01-10    9-13-2001        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
01-11    9-13-2001        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
01-12    11-8-2001        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
01-13    12-13-2001       Rezoning from Ag 2 to C-2
01-14    12-13-2001       Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
02-03    4-11-2002        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
02-04    4-11-2002        Rezoning from C-1 to C-2
03-01    1-9-2003         Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
03-03    7-10-2003        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
03-04    8-14-2003        Rezoning from C-1 and Ag-2 to C-2
04-02    9-9-2004         Rezoning from Ag-2 to R-1
05-04    7-14-2005        Rezoning Ag-1 to Ag-2
06-05    9-14-2006        Rezoning from Ag-2 to C-1
18-1     4-12-2018        Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
19-4     7-11-2019        Rezoning from C-1 to C-2
2021-03  8-12-2021        Rezoning from I-1 to R-1
23-01    1-12-2023        Rezoning to Ag-1
24-2     7-11-2024        Rezoning to Ag-2
24-7     10-10-2024       Rezoning from Ag-1 to Ag-2
                         
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Description
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Description
158      7-27-1984        Granting a sanitary sewer construction agreement with
                          Algoma Township
                        (Prior Code, Part 25)
94-4     10-19-1994       Granting a local gas business franchise to Michigan
                          Consolidated Gas Company
                        (Prior Code, Part 26)
                          Granting the transfer of control of a cable
98-11    10-8-1998        television system and franchise between Cable
                          Michigan and Avalon Cable of Michigan Holding, Inc.
                        (Prior Code, Part 27)
00-6     10-12-2000       Granting a local electric business franchise to
                          Consumers Energy Company
                        (Prior Code, Part 28)
04-05    12-9-2004        Granting a non- exclusive cable television franchise
                          to CC Michigan, LLC (Charter Communications)
                        (Prior Code, Part 29)
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Statutes Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED STATUTES ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites            Code Section
15.231 to 15.246          111.04;
                          111.16
15.231 et seq.            150.03
15.261 through 15.275     150.03
                          30.31;
15.261 et seq.            154.335;
                          154.443
Ch. 29                    93.02
Ch. 41                    153.01
41.181 et seq.            153.01
41.801 et seq.            32.01
54.211 et seq.            151.05
123.957                   150.22
125.1501 through 125.1531 150.21;
                          150.22
125.2301 et seq.          154.366
                          30.01;
                          30.11;
                          30.12;
                          154.001;
125.3101 et seq.          154.006;
                          154.395;
                          154.398;
                          154.400;
                          154.429
                          30.01;
125.3801 et seq.          30.02;
                          30.12
125.3865                  30.07
141.101 through 141.138   153.53
141.101 et seq.           153.01
211.1 to 211.157          150.40
Ch. 259                   154.289;
                          154.308
259.481 et seq.           154.289;
                          154.308
280.1 et seq.             153.01
286.841 et seq.           112.02;
                          154.274
287.289a                  154.262
Ch. 324                   51.05
324.101 et seq.           153.01;
                          154.006
324.11501 et seq.         93.02;
                          153.05
324.30101 et seq.         154.006;
                          154.006
333.24621 et seq.         154.006;
                          154.274
333.26421 et seq.         154.209
333.27101 et seq.         112.02;
                          154.274
333.27951                 112.02;
                          154.274
333.27955                 112.04;
                          154.274
333.27956                 112.03
333.3801 et seq.          154.006
342.30101 et seq.         154.040
Ch. 451                   51.05
484.2101 et seq.          111.04
484.2102                  111.03
484.3101 et seq.          111.01,
                          111.03
484.3103                  111.03
484.3104(2)               111.15
484.3104(3)               111.06
484.3105(1)               111.04
484.3105(3)               111.04
484.3105(4)               111.04
484.3106(1)               111.04
484.3106(2)               111.04
484.3106(5)               111.04
484.3106(6)               111.05
484.3106(7)               111.07
484.3106(8)               111.07
484.3108                  111.09,
                          111.10
484.3110(4)               111.12
484.3110(5)               111.13
484.3113(1)               111.10
484.3113(4)               111.10
484.3113(5)               111.11
484.3113(6)               111.14
484.3115(2)               111.17
484.3115(3)               111.05
484.3115(4)               111.05
484.3115(5)               111.08
559.101 et seq.           154.330
559.101 through 559.272   152.006
560.101 through 560.293   151.02;
                          152.003
560.101 et seq.           51.24
560.1 et seq.             51.24;
                          153.01
560.10                    155.003
Ch. 600                   153.99
600.8701 et seq.          10.99
600.8705                  10.99
764.1 et seq.             31.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code       2021 Code
1.001            33.01
1.002            33.01
1.003            33.01
2.001            30.25
2.002            30.26
2.003            30.27
2.004            30.28
2.005            30.29
2.006            30.29
2.007            30.30
2.008            30.31
2.009            30.32
2.010            30.32
2.011            30.33
2.012            30.34
3.001            31.02
3.002            31.02
3.003            31.02
3.004            31.02
3.005            31.02
15.001           96.01
15.002           96.02
15.003           96.03
15.004           96.04
15.005           96.04
15.006           96.04
15.007           96.04
15.008           96.05
15.009           96.06
15.010           96.07
15.011           96.08
15.012           96.09;
                 96.99
16.001           110.01—
                 110.07
16.002           110.08
17.001           111.01
17.002           111.02
17.003           111.03
17.004           111.04
17.005           111.05
17.006           111.06
17.007           111.07
17.008           111.08
17.009           111.09
17.010           111.10
17.011           111.11
17.012           111.12
17.013           111.13
17.014           111.14
17.015           111.15
17.016           111.16
17.017           111.17
17.019           111.18
17.020           111.99
Part 25          TSO Table II
Part 26          TSO Table II
Part 27          TSO Table II
Part 28          TSO Table II
Part 29          TSO Table II
40.001           10.99
40.002           10.99
40.051           10.99
40.052           10.99
40.053           10.99
40.054           10.99
40.055           10.99
40.056           10.99
41.001           97.01
41.002           97.02
41.003           97.99
42.001           32.20
42.002           32.21
42.003           32.22
42.004           32.99
43.001           31.01
43.002           31.01
43.003           31.01
43.004           31.01
50.001           94.01
50.002           94.99
50.003           94.02
51.001           95.01;
                 95.99
51.002           95.02
60.001           50.02
60.002           50.02
60.004           50.99
61.001           93.20
61.002           93.21
61.004           93.99
70.001           51.01
70.002           51.02
70.003           51.20—
                 51.25
70.004           51.03
70.005           51.04
70.006           51.05
70.007           51.40
70.008           51.41
70.009           51.42
70.010           51.43
70.011           51.44
70.012           51.99
70.013           51.45
70.014           51.06
70.017           51.07
Part 70, App. I  51.08
Part 70, App. II 51.09
71.001           93.01
71.002           93.02
71.003           93.03
71.004           93.04
71.005           93.05
71.006           93.06
71.007           93.99
72.001.1         153.01
72.001.2         153.02
72.001.3         153.03
72.001.4         153.04
72.001.5         153.05
72.002.1         153.20
72.002.2         153.21
72.002.3         153.22
72.002.4         153.23
72.003.1         153.35
72.003.2         153.36
72.003.3         153.37
72.003.4         153.38
72.004.1         153.99
72.004.2         153.50
72.004.3         153.51
72.004.4         153.52
72.004.5         153.53
72.004.6         153.54
72.004.7         153.55
72.004.8         153.56
72.004.9         153.57
72.005.1         153.06
72.006.1         153.07
72.006.4         153.08
80.001           92.20
80.002           92.21
80.003           92.22
80.004           92.23
80.005           92.24
80.006           92.25
80.007           92.26
80.008           92.99
81.001           92.01
81.002           92.02
81.003           92.03
81.003A          92.04
81.004           92.05
81.005           92.99
82.001           150.35
82.002           150.36
82.003           150.37
82.004           150.38
82.005           150.39
82.006           150.40
82.007           150.99
82.008           150.41
84.001           50.01
84.002           50.01
84.003           50.99
84.051           91.01
84.052           91.02
84.053           91.03
84.054           91.99
85.001           32.01
85.002           32.02
85.003           32.03
85.004           32.04
85.005           32.05
85.006           32.06
91.001           150.21
91.002           150.21
91.003           150.21
91.004           150.21
91.007           150.99
91.008           150.21
91.009           150.21
92.001           150.22
92.002           150.22
92.003           150.22
92.006           150.99
93.001           150.23
93.002           150.23
93.003           150.23
93.006           150.99
93.051           150.24
93.054           150.99
93.101           150.21;
                 150.99
94.001           52.01
94.002           52.02
94.003           52.05;
                 52.99
94.004           52.03
94.005           52.04
94.007           52.06
94.008           52.07
94.009           52.08
94.010           52.09
94.011           52.10
94.012           52.11
94.014           52.25
94.015           52.26
94.016           52.27
94.017           52.28
94.018           52.29
94.019           52.30
94.020           52.31
94.021           52.32
94.022           52.33
94.023           52.34
94.024           52.35
94.025           52.36
94.026           52.37
94.027           52.38
94.028           52.39
101.000          152.006
101.010          152.001
101.011          152.002
101.012          152.003
101.013          152.004
101.014          152.005
101.030          152.020
101.031          152.021
101.032          152.022
101.033          152.023
101.034          152.024
101.035          152.025
101.036          152.026
101.037          152.027
101.041          152.028
101.042          152.028
101.051          152.040
101.052          152.041
101.053          152.042
101.054          152.043
101.055          152.044
101.061          152.055
101.062          152.056
101.063          152.057
101.064          152.058
101.065          152.059
101.066          152.060
101.067          152.061
101.068          152.062
101.069          152.063
101.070          152.064
101.081          152.075
101.082          152.075
101.091          152.076
101.093          152.077;
                 152.999
102.920          TSO Table I
                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Code Section
Ord. No. Passed/Effective Code Section
- -      - -              96.01—
                          96.99
                          92.20—
103      4-6-1966         92.26;
                          92.99
                          91.01—
I        5-3-1973         91.03;
                          91.99
II       5-3-1973         50.01;
                          50.99
                          93.20;
136      12-1-1977        93.21;
                          93.99
                          96.01—
140      9-7-1978         96.09;
                          96.99
                          94.01;
141      9-7-1978         94.02;
                          94.99
143      2-14-1979        33.01
146      8-2-1979         50.02
                          95.01;
147      8-2-1979         95.02;
                          95.99
                          92.01—
125      10-13-1979       92.03;
                          92.05;
                          92.99
152      4-7-1983         110.01—
                          110.08
154      6-2-1983         Table TSO I
155      7-7-1983         Table TSO I
158      7-27-1984        Table TSO II
159      10-4-1984        Table TSO I
160      1-3-1985         Table TSO I
163      10-3-1985        Table TSO I
164      10-3-1985        Table TSO I
166      5-1-1986         Table TSO I
167      5-1-1986         Table TSO I
                          93.01—
168      6-13-1986        93.06;
                          93.99
171      10-2-1986        150.22;
                          150.99
173      10-2-1986        150.23;
                          150.99
174      3-20-1987        93.21;
                          96.04
177      9-3-1987         Table TSO I
178      11-12-1987       Table TSO I
1-88     2-4-1988         Table TSO I
2-88     2-4-1988         Table TSO I
2-88     6-2-1988         Table TSO I
3-88     7-7-1988         Table TSO I
4-88     7-7-1988         Table TSO I
5-88A    8-4-1988         Table TSO I
5-88B    9-1-1988         Table TSO I
6-88     12-1-1988        Table TSO I
2-89     4-6-1989         Table TSO I
3-91     3-19-1991        30.25—
                          30.34
4-91     5-18-1991        150.21;
                          150.99
6-91     11-7-1991        Table TSO I
92-1     2-6-1992         Table TSO I
                          51.01—
                          51.09;
                          51.20—
92-2     4-23-1992        51.25;
                          51.40—
                          51.45;
                          51.99
92-3     10-1-1992        31.02
93-1     2-4-1993         Table TSO I
93-2     5-20-1993        Table TSO I
                          150.35—
93-4     10-21-1993       150.41;
                          150.99
                          152.001—
                          152.006;
                          152.020—
                          152.028;
                          152.040—
93-7     1-20-1994        152.044;
                          152.055—
                          152.064;
                          152.075—
                          152.077;
                          152.999
                          155.001—
                          155.005;
                          155.006;
                          155.007—
                          155.016;
                          155.017;
                          155.018;
93-8     1-20-1994        155.019—
                          155.021;
                          155.022—
                          155.030;
                          155.031;
                          155.032;
                          155.033—
                          155.035
94-1     3-15-1994        Table TSO I
94-4     10-19-1994       Table TSO II
94-3     11-17-1994       Table TSO I
94-5     12-15-1994       Table TSO I
                          92.01—
96-1     5-9-1996         92.03;
                          92.05;
                          92.99
96-3     5-9-1996         92.99
96-2     6-13-1996        Table TSO I
96-5     8-1-1996         10.99
                          93.01—
98-6     8-1-1996         93.06;
                          93.99
                          32.20—
96-7     8-21-1996        32.22;
                          32.99
96-9     10-17-1996       152.056
                          97.01;
97-1     7-29-1997        97.02;
                          97.99
98-1     3-4-1998         150.24;
                          150.99
98-3     4-22-1998        Table TSO I
98-4     5-27-1998        Table TSO I
98-6     5-27-1998        150.21
                          50.99;
98-10    9-10-1998        91.99;
                          150.99
98-11    10-8-1998        Table TSO II
99-1     2-17-1999        Table TSO I
99-2     3-31-1999        Table TSO I
99-3     4-15-1999        Table TSO I
99-4     9-9-1999         Table TSO I
99-5     9-9-1999         Table TSO I
                          150.22;
99-6     10-14-1999       150.23;
                          150.99
99-7     11-11-1999       Table TSO I
                          51.99;
                          92.99;
                          93.99;
99-8     11-11-1999       94.99;
                          95.99;
                          96.99;
                          150.99;
                          152.999
99-9     12-9-1999        Table TSO I
00-1     1-13-2000        92.02—
                          92.04
00-2     5-11-2000        Table TSO I
00-2     5-11-2000        Table TSO I
00-6     10-12-2000       Table TSO II
00-7     11-9-2000        Table TSO I
00-8     11-9-2000        Table TSO I
00-9     12-14-2000       31.01
                          151.01—
01-03    2-8-2001         151.07;
                          151.99
01-08    5-10-2001        Table TSO I
01-10    9-13-2001        Table TSO I
01-11    9-13-2001        Table TSO I
01-12    11-8-2001        Table TSO I
01-13    12-13-2001       Table TSO I
01-14    12-13-2001       Table TSO I
02-02-A  3-14-2002        95.02
02-03    4-11-2002        Table TSO I
02-04    4-11-2002        Table TSO I
02-05    9-12-2002        30.27;
                          30.31
                          111.01—
02-06    10-10-2002       111.18;
                          111.99
02-07    11-14-2002       32.01—
                          32.06
03-01    1-9-2003         Table TSO I
03-02    6-12-2003        32.21;
                          32.22
03-03    7-10-2003        Table TSO I
03-04    8-14-2003        Table TSO I
03-05    10-9-2003        32.22
04-02    9-9-2004         Table TSO I
04-05    12-9-2004        Table TSO II
                          52.01—
                          52.11;
05-01    1-13-2005        52.25—
                          52.39;
                          52.99
05-04    7-14-2005        Table TSO I
                          153.01—
                          153.08;
                          153.20—
                          153.23;
05-05    9-8-2005         153.35—
                          153.38;
                          153.50—
                          153.57;
                          153.99
06-05    9-14-2006        Table TSO I
11-01    6-9-2011         30.01—
                          30.12
                          154.001—
                          154.008;
                          154.020—
                          154.022;
                          154.035—
                          154.040;
                          154.055—
                          154.058;
                          154.070—
                          154.082;
                          154.095—
                          154.108;
                          154.140—
                          154.146;
                          154.160—
                          154.171;
                          154.185—
                          154.194;
                          154.205—
                          154.230;
                          154.245—
                          154.270;
-        7-12-2012        154.272;
                          154.273;
                          154.285—
                          154.290;
                          154.305—
                          154.318;
                          154.330—
                          154.338;
                          154.350—
                          154.353;
                          154.365;
                          154.366;
                          154.380;
                          154.381;
                          154.395—
                          154.403;
                          154.415 ;
                          154.417;
                          154.419 —
                          154.429;
                          154.440—
                          154.449;
                          154.999
13-01    2-14-2013        150.20 
14-01    9-11-2014        154.252
                          154.231;
15-02    2-12-2015        154.247 ;
                          Ch. 154, App. A
15-03    2-12-2015        154.006;
                          154.247
16.01    3-10-2016        154.332
17-1     8-10-2017        150.01—
                          150.06
17-2     12-14-2017       154.267
18-1     4-12-2018        Table TSO I
                          112.01—
19-1     1-10-2019        112.04;
                          112.99
19-2     3-14-2019        154.274
19-3     7-11-2019        154.305—
                          154.318
19-4     7-11-2019        Table TSO I
19-5     8-8-2019         154.305—
                          154.318
                          154.006;
                          154.207;
                          154.252;
2020-01  - -2020          154.305—
                          154.318;
                          154.320—
                          154.326
2021-1   7-8-2021         154.006;
                          154.216
2021-03  8-12-2021        TSO Table I
-        1-13-2022        154.021
                          154.074;
                          154.077;
                          154.080;
2022-1   1-13-2022        154.099;
                          154.232;
                          154.275;
                          Ch. 154, App. B
                          98.01;
22-03    12-8-2022        98.02;
                          98.99
22-4     12-8-2022        154.252
23-01    1-12-2023        TSO Table I
                          156.01—
23-2     2-9-2023         156.12;
                          156.20;
                          156.21
                          113.01—
23-3     1-1-2023         113.14;
                          113.99
                          154.006;
23-4     2-9-2023         154.233;
                          Ch. 154, Apps. A and
                          B
23-5     4-13-2023        30.29
23-6     - -2023          154.144;
                          154.380
23-7     9-14-2023        154.265
24-1     6-13-2024        154.208
24-2     7-11-2024        TSO Table I
24-3     9-12-2024        154.380
                          154.006;
                          154.007;
24-4     9-12-2024        154.021;
                          154.212;
                          154.262
                          154.006;
24-6     1-11-2024        154.234; Ch. 154,
                          Apps. A and
                          B
24-7     10-10-2024       TSO Table I
                         
 
