SUMMIT TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 164 passed 12-13-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE # 120
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWNSHIP OF SUMMIT, COUNTY
OF JACKSON, STATE OF MICHIGAN REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWNSHIP DEALING WITH
SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Township of
Summit are inadequately arranged and classified and, in their present format,
such ordinances do not adequately preserve the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the township and do not adequately provide for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the Township of Summit to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into a code of ordinances in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Summit Township Board of Trustees has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Township of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE SUMMIT TOWNSHIP BOARD OF TRUSTEES,
THAT:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Township of Summit as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the Code of Ordinances for the Township of Summit County
of Jackson, State of Michigan.
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the Titles as shown on the Table of Contents attached hereto, and all of the
ordinances appearing in such Code of Ordinances are hereby incorporated herein
and made a part hereof, in their entirety, as though fully set forth herein.
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and adopted, in whole or in part,
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plats site condominiums, or dedication of land to public
use, vacating, setting or adjusting the boundaries of streets or other public
places, nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code.
   Section 4. This ordinance shall take effective thirty (30) days from the
date of its publication. A full and complete copy of such Code of Ordinances
shall henceforth be kept on file in the office of the Township Clerk and shall
be kept as a part of the permanent records of such office.
   Section 5. The foregoing ordinance, or a synopsis thereof, shall, promptly
after its adoption be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the boundaries of the Township of Summit and qualified under state law to
publish legal notices.
   The foregoing Ordinance, or a synopsis thereof, shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the boundaries of the Township of
Summit and qualified under state law to publish legal notices promptly within
its adoption, and shall take effect thirty (30) days after the date of
publication.
   At a regular meeting of the Summit Township Board held in the Township Hall
on the day of, 2008, at 7:00 p.m., the foregoing ordinance was offered by
Member Gordon Heins and supported by Member Douglas Hoyt.
MEMBERS PRESENT:    J. Dunn      S. Elliott
            D. Hoyt      S. Kennedy
            R. DuBois      R. Wilson
            G. Heins
MEMBERS ABSENT:    None
MEMBERS VOTING IN FAVOR OF ADOPTION:
            J. Dunn      S. Elliott
            D. Hoyt      S. Kennedy
            R. DuBois      R. Wilson
            G. Heins
MEMBERS VOTING AGAINST ADOPTION:    None
Adopted: September 9, 2008
Effective: October 20, 2008
James Dunn /s/            Robert DuBois /s/
Supervisor               Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Summit Township Code.”
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b and M.S.A. 5.2084(2)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of Summit Township, Michigan.
      CODE.  The Summit Township Code, as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Jackson, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the township, and for which civil sanctions,
including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs, may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, as amended. A
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of any criminal
offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of Summit Township,
Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the
township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of Summit Township, Michigan, and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP. Summit Township, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or
division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Generally. Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code
shall affect any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code.
   (B)   Examples.
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township or any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the
township;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Board of Trustees;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Making any appropriation;
      (5)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (6)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (7)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
      (8)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
      (9)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
township officers or employees;
      (10)   Pertaining to rezoning; and/or
      (11)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (C)   Ordinances to continue in effect. All the ordinances are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length in this code.
   (D)   Ordinances to be on file. The ordinances are on file in the Township
Clerk’s office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Summit Township Code
is hereby amended to read as follows: . . .” The new provisions shall then be
set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Summit Township Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section reads as
follows: . . .” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board
of Trustees. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ through _____” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the township, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, as amended, when the public servant has reasonable
cause to believe that a person has committed an offense in violation of a
township ordinance:
   (A)   Ordinance Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal;
   (D)   Fire Chief or designees;
   (E)   Zoning Administrator; and
   (F)   Police Officers/Sheriff’s Deputies.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this
code is separable, and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or
invalid for any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this
code, or any part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and, in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is
reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
32.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
      
33.   PERSONNEL
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Municipal Civil Infractions
   
30.01   Title
   
30.02   Definitions
   
30.03   Municipal civil infraction action
   
30.04   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service
   
30.05   Municipal civil infraction citations; contents
   
30.06   Sanctions for violations
   
30.07   Effective date
Ordinance Enforcement Officer
   
30.20   Establishment
   
30.21   Appointment
   
30.22   Authority
   
30.23   Duties
   
30.24   Supplementary effect
   
30.25   Effective date
Township Attorney
   
30.40   Authority
Zoning Administrator
   
30.55   Deputies
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
§ 30.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Summit Township Municipal Civil
Infraction Ordinance” (referred to herein as “this subchapter”).
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. A representative of the township authorized by
township ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction citations.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by an
ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under the ordinance, and
for which civil sanctions, including, without limitation, fines, damages,
expenses, and costs, may be ordered as authorized by Michigan law.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized township official, directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005 ; Am. Ord. - -, passed 9-9-2008 )
§ 30.03 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized township official of a municipal civil infraction citation directing
the alleged violator to appear in court.
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.04 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   A municipal civil infraction citation shall be issued and served by an
authorized township official as follows.
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   The first copy of the citation (the original citation) shall be
filed with the district court.
      (2)   The second copy of the citation shall be retained by the township.
      (3)   The third copy (and any duplicate copies, as needed) shall be
issued to the alleged violator.
   (E)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
township official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that
the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge, and
belief.”
   (F)   An authorized township official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and any required copies of a citation.
   (G)   An authorized township official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction
and if the Township Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (H)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall be served by an authorized
township official as follows.
      (1)   Except as provided by division (H)(2) below, an authorized township
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   (a)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building, or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building, or structure by posting the
copy on the land or in a manner reasonably calculated to give notice or
attaching the copy to the building or structure.
         (b)   In addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class
mail to the owner of the land, building, or structure at the owner’s last known
address.
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.05 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and address of
the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the place where
the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court,
and the time on or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do 1 of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance or, in person, or by
representation; or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an information hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the township;
or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation;
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the township;
      (4)   That at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   That at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in bold-faced type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on
the municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.06 SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by the ordinance violated, plus
any costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions, as authorized under Public
Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, as amended, and other applicable laws.
   (B)   (1)   Increased civil fines shall be imposed for repeat offenses by a
person of any requirement or provision of any ordinance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         REPEAT OFFENSE. A second (or any subsequent) admission or
determination of responsibility for the same municipal civil infraction made
within the period as specified by the ordinance violated.
      (3)   Unless a different schedule of civil fines is provided for by an
applicable ordinance, the civil fines payable upon admission or determination
of responsibility for the same municipal civil infraction shall be determined
pursuant to the following schedule:
 
Violation Type                                      Fine Amount
First violation                                     $50
Second violation within 1-year period*              $150
Third violation within 1-year period*               $250
Fourth or subsequent violation within 1-year period $400
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - Determined on the basis of the date of the violation.
 
   (C)   Each day on which any violation designated as a municipal civil
infraction continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
sanctions as a separate violation.
   (D)   (1)   As authorized by the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 600.8302, the
district court has equitable jurisdiction and authority concurrent with that of
the circuit court in the matters and to the extent provided by M.C.L.A. §
600.8302.
      (2)   By virtue of the jurisdiction and authority, the district court may
issue and enforce any judgment, writ, or order necessary to enforce this
subchapter.
      (3)   The schedule of fines set forth in division (B) above is the
minimum sanction to be imposed upon an admission or determination of
responsibility.
      (4)   The schedule shall not be construed so as to limit the authority of
the court to impose additional, or greater, sanctions, including, but not
limited to, larger fines and/or judgments, writs, or orders which are
determined by the court to be appropriate to the circumstances.
   (E)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the township may bring
an action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain,
prevent, or abate any municipal civil infraction violation.
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective immediately upon publication in a
newspaper in general circulation within the township.
(Ord. 118.00, passed 6-14-2005)
ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 30.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Office of Summit Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby
established.
(Ord. 119.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.21 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Township Board hereby authorizes the Township Supervisor to
appoint any person or persons to the Office of Ordinance Enforcement Officer
for the term or terms, and for the compensation, as the Township Supervisor, in
his or her sole discretion, may determine.
   (B)   The Supervisor may, further, remove any person from the office as the
Supervisor, in his or her sole discretion, may determine.
(Ord. 119.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.22 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized to enforce all
ordinances of the township, whether heretofore or hereafter enacted, and
whether the ordinances specifically designate a different enforcing officer or
do not designate any enforcing officer.
   (B)   (1)   Where a particular officer is so designated in an ordinance,
that officer’s authority shall continue in full force and effect and shall not
be diminished or impaired by the terms of this subchapter, and the authority of
the Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall be in addition and supplementary to the
authority granted to the other specific officer.
      (2)   An Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall, in the performance of the
officer’s duties, be subordinate and responsible to the Supervisor, or the
other Township Board member, or members, as the Township Board may from time to
time designate.
(Ord. 119.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.23 DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer’s duties shall include
the following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Investigation of ordinance violations;
      (2)   Issuing and serving ordinance violation notices;
      (3)   Issuing and serving appearance tickets as authorized under Public
Act 147 of 1968, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9(c);
      (4)   Issuing and serving municipal ordinance violation notices and
municipal civil infraction citations as authorized under Public Act 12 of 1994,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq., as it may from time to time be amended;
      (5)   Appearance in court or other judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings
to assist in the prosecution of ordinance violators; and
      (6)   Any other ordinance enforcing duties as may be designated by the
Township Board, the Township Supervisor, or assigned by the Township Attorney.
(Ord. 119.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.24 SUPPLEMENTARY EFFECT.
   (A)   All ordinances of the township heretofore or hereafter adopted shall
be considered to be supplemented by the terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   To the extent that any existing ordinances of the township conflict
with the provisions of this subchapter, the provisions of this subchapter shall
prevail, and any such conflicting ordinances are hereby amended to whatever
extent is necessary in order to eliminate any such conflict.
(Ord. 119.00, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 30.25 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon publication as required
by law following adoption by the Township Board.
(Ord. 119.00, passed 6-14-2005)
TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
§ 30.40 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is in the best interests of the municipality to expedite the
handling and prosecution of building, electrical, plumbing, and zoning
violations.
   (B)   The Township Attorney hereby is authorized by the Township Board for
the Township of Summit to institute the criminal or civil proceedings as are
brought to his or her attention by the various inspectors, boards, or
commissions, supervisor, president, and/or police department without additional
action being required by this Board.
   (C)   This section shall constitute complete and absolute authority for the
attorney to commence the actions without further action or vote of this Board.
   (D)   This section affirms and ratifies all previous civil and criminal
actions brought in the name of this township.
   (E)   This authorization extends to each and every ordinance in full force
and effect in the township.
(Res. passed 6-14-1994)
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.55 DEPUTIES.
   The Township Supervisor, Township Clerk, Ordinance Enforcement Officer, and
Township Law Enforcement Officers are hereby designated by the Township Board
as deputies of the Zoning Administrator for purposes of enforcing the
provisions of
Chapter 150.
(Res. passed 11-13-1989)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Escrow of fire insurance
   
31.02   Fee structure for Freedom of Information Act request
   
31.03   Credit cards
   
31.04   Local Development Finance Authority
   
31.05   Authority to buy and sell property
Recovery of Costs of Response, Arrest, and Prosecution
   
31.20   Purpose
   
31.21   Applicability
   
31.22   Cost recovery
   
31.23   Minimum cost recovery
   
31.24   Effective date
Recovery of Expenses Incurred by Response to Emergency Hazardous Materials
Incident
   
31.35   Definitions
   
31.36   Emergency hazardous materials incident
   
31.37   Expenses of an emergency hazardous materials incident
   
31.38   Payment of invoice
   
31.39   Effective date; publication
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ESCROW OF FIRE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Township of Summit does hereby become a participating municipality
in the program providing for the escrow of fire insurance as established by
Public Act 495 of 1980; as amended by Public Act 216 of 1998, or as established
by Public Act 217 of 1998, and does declare its intention to uniformly apply
the provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 2845 or 2227 to all property within the township.
   (B)   The township official responsible for the administration of M.C.L.A.
§§ 2845 or 2227 of the Acts and any rules promulgated by the Commissioner of
Financial and Insurance Services is hereby designated as follows: Treasurer.
   (C)   The Township of Summit Treasurer shall establish an escrow account
with the Citizens Bank for the purpose of receiving and holding deposits of
money received from insurers pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§ 2845 or 2227 of the Acts,
which account shall be separately maintained from all other accounts and may be
an interest bearing account.
(Ord. 115.02, passed - -)
§ 31.02 FEE STRUCTURE FOR FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUEST.
   (A)   Generally. Summit Township Board does hereby adopt the following fee
procedure for establishing the proper charge for a Freedom of Information Act
request under Public Act 442 of 1976, to be used in conjunction with the
Freedom of Information Act request.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   The fee structure will be reviewed annually by the Clerk with all
changes approved by the Supervisor and placed on file.
      (2)   The fees shall include, but not be limited to, copy duplication,
computer disk, mailing cost, office supplies and hourly wage (lowest wage paid
to township office employee) for employee retrieving information for FOIA
request.
   (C)   Deposit. If the anticipated charges for a requested record will exceed
$50, a good faith deposit of 1/2 of the total anticipated charges shall be
required.
   (D)   Waiver of fees. If an individual submits an affidavit stating that he
or she is receiving public assistance or is able to state facts showing
inability to pay fees due to indigence, a copy of a public record shall be
furnished without charge for the first $20 of the fee for each request.
   (E)   Freedom of Information Act fee structure.
 
Copies        $.25 per page
Computer Disk $.50 each
Envelopes:
small         $.10 each
large         $.25 each
Hourly Labor  $14.21 per hour
 
(Res. passed 12-11-2001)
§ 31.03 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The adoption of a resolution the acceptance of payments by financial
transaction devices is within the purview of the Township Board pursuant to
Public Act 280 of 1995.
   (B)   The Treasurer of Summit Township has determined acceptable financial
transaction devices (such as credit cards).
   (C)   Effective 7-1-2001, Summit Township authorizes the use of financial
transaction devices and authorizes the Treasurer to proceed to implement their
use according to the following policy. Financial transactions that may be made
by a financial transmission device shall include:
      (1)   Real and personal property taxes; and
      (2)   Water and sewer payments.
   (D)   Summit Township wishes to allow residents and businesses the
opportunity for an additional method of payment for property taxes and water/
sewer payments.
   (E)   Summit Township will designate any future financial transaction
devices as well as the acceptance of any financial transaction devices for
special assessments, permit fees, and the like.
(Res. passed 6-12-2001)
§ 31.04 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority vested in the township by Public Act 281 of
1986, as it may be amended from time to time, the Local Development Finance
Authority of the Township of Summit shall be and is hereby created.
   (B)   The Authority shall exercise the powers and duties as are provided by
and in accordance with the provisions of Public Act 281 of 1986, as it may from
time to time be amended, with the full power and authority to adopt development
and tax increment financing plans and to provide for the implementation of
those plans through the issuance of bonds as authorized by Public Act 281 of
1986 or otherwise.
   (C)   The boundaries of the Authority District shall be as set forth in
Attachment “A” attached to the resolution passed 4-27-1993, and made a part
hereof.
   (D)   No funds of the Authority shall be disbursed except as provided for in
the budget of the Authority as it may from time to time be approved by the
Board of the Authority and the Board of Summit Township pursuant to the
provisions of Public Act 281 of 1986, as it may from time to time be amended.
   (E)   The appointment of a minimum of 7 persons to serve on the Board of
Authority be confirmed.
Name Term
Name                            Term
Summit Township:                4 years
                                4 years
                                3 years
                                3 years
                                2 years
                                2 years
                                1 year
Jackson Community College:      4 years
Jackson County Commissioners:   4 years
Jackson Public School District: 4 years
                                4 years
 
   (F)   The Township Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to promptly file
a certified copy of this section with the Secretary of State for the State of
Michigan, and to publish a copy of this section at least once as provided by
Public Act 281 of 1986.
(Res. passed 4-27-1993)
§ 31.05 AUTHORITY TO BUY AND SELL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Township Board of the Township of Summit, Jackson County,
Michigan, be and it hereby is, authorized and empowered to purchase, lease, and
hold real and personal property for the public use of the inhabitants of the
township, and to convey, alienate, and dispose of the same; and to make all
contracts incident thereto that may be necessary and convenient as it shall
judge expedient.
   (B)   (1)   The Township Supervisor and the Township Clerk be, and they
hereby are, authorized and empowered on behalf of the township to execute,
acknowledge, and deliver any and all instruments in connection with the
purchase, sale, or lease of real and personal property, including, but not
limited to, contracts, deeds of conveyance, leases, and bills of sale.
      (2)   This authority shall remain in force and effect until modified or
repealed by the electors at a subsequent annual meeting or at a special meeting
of the electors.
(Res. passed 3-26-1988)
RECOVERY OF COSTS OF RESPONSE, ARREST, AND PROSECUTION
§ 31.20 PURPOSE.
   The township is authorized to recover its reasonable costs of response,
arrest, and prosecution of ordinance violation and the township desiring to
recover the costs, this subchapter has been adopted to permit and establish the
costs recoveries.
(Ord. 14.04, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 31.21 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the violation of any
township ordinance, including traffic and zoning offenses.
(Ord. 14.04, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 31.22 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The township shall have the right to apply to and receive from any
court of competent jurisdiction its reasonable costs of response to citation
for, arrest for, or prosecution of any township ordinance violation.
   (B)   The recovery of the costs may be had in any case, including dismissals
upon payment of costs.
(Ord. 14.04, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 31.23 MINIMUM COST RECOVERY.
   Any violation prosecuted in court, including dismissals by the prosecution,
shall carry a minimum cost recovery in the amount of $25 unless otherwise
waived by the township.
(Ord. 14.04, passed 6-8-1999)
§ 31.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 14.04, passed 6-8-1999)
RECOVERY OF EXPENSES INCURRED BY RESPONSE TO
EMERGENCY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT
§ 31.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPENSES.
      (1)   Shall include but not be limited to the actual labor costs to the
township and its personnel including workers’ compensation benefits, fringe
benefits, administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment
operation, costs and materials, costs of disposal, costs of any contract labor
and materials, and those costs associated with an emergency hazardous materials
incident, in order to ensure the safety of the township and its populace.
      (2)   EXPENSES shall also include the charges or costs incurred by the
township as a result of a HazMat unit response to an emergency hazardous
materials incident.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Shall include all those materials designated as
hazardous by the State of Michigan in Public Act 307 of 1982, as amended, or by
the Federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act (SARA), as amended.
   EMERGENCY HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT. A spill, leakage, release, or other
dissemination or threat of same of any hazardous materials requiring immediate
action to mitigate a threat to public health, safety, or welfare.
   HAZMAT UNIT. The vehicle provided by the township, individually or pursuant
to an agreement with the City of Jackson, equipped with apparatus designed to
provide emergency service in situations involving a spill, leak, accident, or
other similar occurrence involving hazardous materials.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
partnership, or group, including their officers and employees, who are either
listed as the owner of record by the Jackson County Register of Deeds, have a
land contract vendee interest in, or are listed as the taxpayer of record for
the real property where the emergency hazardous material incident occurred, or
have title, use, possession, or control of the hazardous material or the
vehicle used to transport same.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
partnership, or group, including their officers and employees, who has
responsibility for or actual involvement in the emergency hazardous materials
incident.
(Ord. 116.01, passed 11-10-1992)
§ 31.36 EMERGENCY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT.
   In the event a spill, leakage, release, or other dissemination of any
hazardous material has occurred, the Township Fire Chief, or his or her
authorized representative, shall determine whether the occurrence constitutes
an emergency hazardous materials incident, and if so determined, the township
may take immediate steps to abate and control the hazardous materials.
(Ord. 116.01, passed 11-10-1992)
§ 31.37 EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency hazardous materials incident, all owners
or persons who have responsibility for or involvement in, the emergency
hazardous materials incident shall be jointly and severally liable to the
township for any expenses incurred in responding to the emergency hazardous
materials incident.
   (B)   In the event the owner or person fails to pay the expenses within 60
days after the township mails its invoice of expenses to the owner or person,
the township may take the collection efforts to recover the expenses that it
deems appropriate, including, but not limited to, adding the unpaid expenses to
the real property tax bill of the owner of the real property where the
hazardous materials emergency occurred, and collecting the same in the same
manner that ad valorem property taxes are collected.
   (C)   The unpaid expenses may not be added to the tax bill of any real
property unless the owner, or person in charge of or responsible for the real
property, has a connection or involvement with the hazardous material that
resulted in an emergency hazardous materials incident.
(Ord. 116.01, passed 11-10-1992)
§ 31.38 PAYMENT OF INVOICE.
   Payment of an invoice for expenses incurred by the township under this
subchapter shall not constitute an admission of guilt or responsibility under
any other ordinance, law, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 116.01, passed 11-10-1992)
§ 31.39 EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION.
    (A)   This subchapter shall take effect and be enforced from any date after
the earliest date allowed by law.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be published in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 116.01, passed 11-10-1992)
CHAPTER 32: TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Investment policy
   
32.02   Social security number privacy
   
32.03   Indemnification and defense of township officers and employees
   
32.04   Township does not accept responsibility for private property
   
32.05   Disabled grievance procedure
Adopted Policies
   
32.20   Michigan Emergency Management Assistance Compact adopted
   
32.21   Summit Township Recreation Plan adopted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   This policy is applicable to all public funds belonging to
Summit Township and in the custody of the Township Treasurer.
      (2)   These funds are accounted for in the Summit Township comprehensive
annual financial report.
   (B)   (1)   The Summit Township Treasurer or his or her designee is
authorized to manage funds belonging to the township, including depositing
funds in approved institutions and administrating investments in conformance
with M.C.L.A. § 41.77 and the policies as set forth in this section.
      (2)   Also, the Township Treasurer or his or her designee is authorized
to hire an outside money manager to invest township funds in securities which
are legal (authorized) for direct purchase.
   (C)   The Board approves financial banks as depositories of township funds
such as: Citizens Bank, Comerica, Flagstar, Republic Bank, LaSalle Bank,
American One Federal Credit Union, County National Bank, and MBIA Asset
Management as administrator of the Michigan CLASS Pool.
   (D)   (1)   The Treasurer shall recommend financial institutions for
approval for the safekeeping of township funds based on an evaluation of the
performance and solvency of the institution, as well as past performance in
exercising due care and prudence in managing the custody of township funds held
in trust, if applicable.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall periodically evaluate approved and potential
financial depositories and shall make recommendation as to appropriate changes
in approved depositories when warranted.
   (E)   The Treasurer may elect to have certificates and other evidence of
investments held by a financial institution, provided that the financial
institution presents to the Township Treasurer sufficient documentation and
acknowledgment of the investment instruments held on behalf of the township.
   (F)   In determining safekeeping and custody qualifications, financial
institutions must document a minimum capital requirement of at least
$10,000,000 and at least 5 years of operation. All financial institutions and
brokers/dealers shall be pre-qualified by supplying the following:
      (1)   Audited financial statements;
      (2)   Proof of NASD certification or FDIC insurance;
      (3)   Proof of state registration; and
      (4)   Certification of having read, understood, and agreement to comply
with the Summit Township investment policy.
   (G)   The Treasurer shall annually examine the financial condition and
registrations of qualified financial institutions and brokers/dealers by
obtaining annual updates of the information listed above.
   (H)   When the Treasurer’s analysis of the township’s cash flow requirements
reveals that surplus funds will not be required to meet current expenditures
for a specific length of time, the Treasurer is authorized to make prudent
investments for a length of time that will provide a reasonable return on
investment, yet seek to ensure that the funds will be available when needed and
will not be exposed to undue risk. The Treasurer is authorized to invest
township funds into lawful investments authorized under M.C.L.A. § 129.91.
These are the following instruments:
      (1)   In bonds, securities, and other obligations of the United States,
or an agency or instrumentality of the United States;
      (2)   In certificates of deposit, savings accounts, deposit accounts, or
depository receipts of a bank which is a member of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or a savings and loan association which is a member of
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation or a credit union which is
insured by the National Credit Union Administration, but only if the bank,
savings and loan association, or credit union meeting all criteria as a
depository of public funds contained in state law;
      (3)   In commercial paper rated at the time of purchase within the 2
highest classifications established by not less than 2 standard rating services
and which matures not more than 270 days after the date of purchase. Not more
than 50% of any fund may be invested in commercial paper at any time;
      (4)   Mutual funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940,
Title 1 of Chapter 686, 54 Stat. 789, 15 U.S.C. §§ 80a-1 to 80a-3 and 80a-4 to
80a-64, with the authority to purchase only investment that are legal for
direct investment according to state law. This authorization is limited to
funds whose intention is to seek to maintain a net asset value of 1 dollar per
share;
      (5)   Investment pools composed of investment obligations described in
subdivision (a) through (g) of Act 20 PA 143, as amended through 12-31-1997, if
purchased through an inter-local agreement under the Urban Cooperation Act of
1967, Public Act 7 of 1967 (Extra Session), being M.C.L.A. § 124.512; and
      (6)   The policy authorizes investment in investment pools organized
under the Surplus Funds Investment Pool Act, Public Act 367 of 1982, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 129.11 - 129.118.
   (I)   The objectives of this policy are foremost, to maintain safety of
principal of township funds; secondarily, to maintain a diversified investment
portfolio, maintain adequate liquidity, and achieve a market rate of return on
relatively safe investment instruments. To accomplish these objectives,
decisions and actions involving the township’s investment portfolio shall meet
the following criteria.
      (1)   Safety.
         (a)   Safety of principal is the foremost objective of Summit
Township’s investment practices.
         (b)   Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure
the preservation of capital in the overall investment portfolio.
         (c)   The Treasurer shall minimize credit risk by investing only in
the safer types of securities, pre-qualifying financial institutions, brokers/
dealers, intermediaries, and advisers with whom the township will do business;
and diversifying the investment portfolio so that the impact on the investment
portfolio resulting from losses on individual securities will be minimized.
      (2)   Diversification.
         (a)   The investments shall be diversified by avoiding over
concentration in securities from a specific issuer or business sector,
excluding U.S. Treasury securities.
         (b)   Investments shall have varying maturities.
         (c)   Investment instrument selection shall avoid high credit risks
and shall include use of readily available funds, such as local government
investment pools or mutual funds to maintain sufficient liquidity.
      (3)   Liquidity.
         (a)   The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to
meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated.
         (b)   Securities shall have maturity dates concurrent with cash flow
needs.
         (c)   Securities with active secondary or resale markets, as well as
money market mutual funds offering same-day liquidity for short-term funds
shall also be used to ensure liquidity.
         (d)   The Treasurer shall minimize interest rate risk by avoiding the
need to sell securities prior to maturity and investing operating funds
primarily in short-term securities, money market mutual funds, or similar
public investment pools.
         (e)   Securities shall not normally be sold prior to maturity except
to minimize loss of principal to improve the quality; yield or target duration
in the portfolio, or to meet liquidity needs.
      (4)   Return on investment.
         (a)   The investment portfolio shall be designed to attain a market
average rate of return during budgetary and economic cycles while taking into
account investment risk constraints and liquidity needs.
         (b)   Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to
safety and liquidity objectives.
         (c)   The core of investments is limited to relatively low-risk
securities, and a fair rate of return relative to risk is assumed.
   (J)   (1)   The Treasurer shall make the investments and only the
investments as a prudent person would make in dealing with the property of
another, having in view the preservation of the principal and the amount and
regularity of the income to be derived.
      (2)   Investment officer acting in accordance with written procedures and
this investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of
personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or market
price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a timely
fashion and the liquidity and the sale of securities are carried out in
accordance with the terms of this policy.
      (3)   The standard of prudence to be used shall be the “fiduciary”
standard and shall be applied in context of managing an overall portfolio.
   (K)   The Treasurer shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of township investments, or
that could impair the Treasurer’s ability to make impartial investment
decisions.
   (L)   The Treasurer shall annually provide a written report to the Township
Board concerning the investment of township funds.
   (M)   (1)   The township shall comply with all applicable statutory
standards for investment of public funds as they now exist or as they may be
subsequently amended.
      (2)   Any provision of this section that conflicts with applicable
statutory requirements and standards is void.
(Res. passed 1-14-2003; Am. Res. passed 2-11-2003; Am. Res. passed 11-14-2006)
§ 32.02 SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER PRIVACY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Township of Summit (the “township”) is required by the Michigan
Social Security Number Privacy Act, Public Act 454 of 2004, being M.C.L.A. §§
445.81 et seq. (the “Act”), to create a Privacy Policy concerning the social
security numbers that it possesses or obtains.
      (2)   Pursuant to the Act, the Privacy Policy must at least:
         (a)   Ensure to the extent practicable the confidentiality of the
social security numbers;
         (b)   Prohibit unlawful disclosure of the social security numbers;
         (c)   Limit who has access to information or documents that contain
the social security numbers;
         (d)   Describe how to properly dispose of documents that contain the
social security numbers; and
         (e)   Establish penalties for violation of the Privacy Policy.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the township to protect the confidentiality of
social security numbers obtained in the ordinary course of township business
from employees, vendors, contractors, customers, or others.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly obtain, store, transfer, use, disclose,
or dispose of a social security number that the township obtains or possesses
except in accordance with the Act and this Privacy Policy.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Obtaining social security numbers.
         (a)   Social security numbers should be collected only as required by
federal and state law, or as permitted by federal and state law, for legitimate
reasons in accordance with this privacy policy.
         (b)   Legitimate reasons include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Applicants may be required to provide a social security number
for purposes of a pre-employment background check;
            2.   Copies of social security cards may be obtained for purposes
of verifying employees’ eligibility for employment;
            3.   Social security numbers may be obtained from employees for tax
reporting purposes, for new hire reporting or for purposes of enrollment in any
township employee benefit plans; and
            4.   Social security numbers may be obtained from creditors or
vendors for tax reporting purposes.
      (2)   Public display.
         (a)   No more than 4 sequential digits of a social security number
shall be placed on an identification card, badge, time card, employee roster,
bulletin board, permit, license or any other material or document designed for
public display.
         (b)   Any document, material, or computer screen displaying more than
4 sequential digits of a social security number shall be out of public view at
all times.
      (3)   Account numbers. No more than 4 sequential digits of a social
security number shall be used as an account number for an individual.
      (4)   Computer transmission. No more than 4 sequential digits of a social
security number shall be used or transmitted via the internet or on a computer
system or network unless the connection is secure or the transmission is
encrypted.
      (5)   Mailed documents. Township documents containing more than 4
sequential digits of a social security number shall only be sent in cases where
federal or state law, rule, regulation, or court order or rule authorize such.
In such cases, the social security number shall not be visible through the
envelope.
      (6)   Freedom of Information Act. When more than 4 sequential digits of a
social security number are contained within a document subject to release under
the Freedom of Information Act, the social security number shall be rendered
unreadable before the document or copy of the document is disclosed.
      (7)   Storage. All documents containing social security numbers shall be
stored in a secure manner; social security numbers shall not be stored on
computers or other electronic devices that are not secured against unauthorized
access.
      (8)   Access to social security numbers.
         (a)   Only personnel with legitimate business reasons shall have
access to records containing social security numbers.
         (b)   Department heads with access to records containing social
security numbers shall determine which other personnel within their department
have a legitimate reason, in the ordinary course of business of the township,
to have access to the social security numbers.
         (c)   Personnel using records containing social security numbers must
take appropriate steps to secure the records when not in use.
      (9)   Disposal.
         (a)   Documents containing social security numbers will be retained in
accordance with the requirements of federal and state laws.
         (b)   Upon the close of the retention period, documents containing
social security numbers must be shredded or otherwise disposed of in a manner
that protects the confidentiality of the social security numbers.
      (10)   Unauthorized use or disclosure of social security numbers.
         (a)   The township shall take reasonable measures to enforce this
Privacy Policy and to correct and prevent the occurrence of violation.
         (b)   Any employee who knowingly obtains, uses, or discloses social
security numbers for unlawful purposes or in violation of this Privacy Policy
shall be subject to discipline, up to and including discharge.
         (c)   Additionally, certain violations of the Act carry criminal and/
or civil sanctions.
         (d)   The township will cooperate with law enforcement and/or
administrative agencies in the apprehension and prosecution of any person who
knowingly obtains, uses or discloses social security numbers through the
township for unlawful purposes.
(Res. passed 11-8-2005)
§ 32.03 INDEMNIFICATION AND DEFENSE OF TOWNSHIP OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   When a claim is made or a civil action is commenced against an officer
or an employee of Summit Township, for injuries to persons or properties caused
by negligence of the officer or employee while in the course of employment and
while acting within the scope of his or her authority, Summit Township will pay
for, engage, or furnish the services of an attorney to advise the office or
employee as to the claim and to appear for and represent the officer or
employee in the action.
   (B)   Summit Township may compromise, settle, and pay the claim before or
after the commencement of a civil action.
   (C)   Whenever a judgment for damages awarded against an officer or an
employee of Summit Township as a result of a civil action for personal injuries
or property damage caused by the officer or employee all in the course of
employment or acting within the scope of his or her authority, Summit Township
will indemnify the officer or employee or pay, settle, or compromise the
judgment.
   (D)   When a criminal action is commenced against an officer or employee of
Summit Township based upon the conduct of the officer or employee in the course
of employment, if the employee or officer had a reasonable basis for believing
that he or she was acting within the scope of his or her authority at the time
of the alleged conduct, the Summit Township will pay for, engage, or furnish
the services of an attorney to advise the officer or employee as to the action,
and to appear for and represent the officer or employee in the action.
   (E)   These resolutions shall not impose any liability upon Summit Township.
(Res. passed 4-10-2001; Am. Res. passed 9-14-2004)
§ 32.04 TOWNSHIP DOES NOT ACCEPT RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The township shall not accept any responsibility for the repair,
maintenance, or replacement of parts or equipment located on private property.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the sole responsibility of the occupant, tenant, or
owner of the property to maintain, repair, and replace any and all parts and
equipment from their point of origin in the structure or on the property to the
publicly owned force main or gravity main located in the public road right-of-
way.
      (2)   The maintenance, repair, and replacement shall include but not be
limited to motor failures, clogged lines, or malfunctioning electrical systems.
   (C)   To the extent that the township performs any of the above functions,
it shall do so only as it determines in the best interest of the township in
its sole discretion, and the cost of the services may be charged to the
occupant, tenant, or owner of the structure or premises.
(Res. passed 2-14-1995)
§ 32.05 DISABLED GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any individual who believes that because of disabled status he or she
has been discriminated against in violation of federal regulations (31 C.F.R.
pt. 51, as amended) may notify the Township Handicapped Coordinator within not
more than 20 days after the occurrence of the alleged discriminatory action.
   (B)   The notification shall be in writing and may be made in person or by
the individual’s authorized agent.
   (C)   The Handicapped Coordinator shall make an investigation of the alleged
discrimination and shall report the results of the investigation in writing to
the complainant within 30 days after receiving the complaint.
   (D)   The report shall cite the facts upon which the conclusion is based and
shall conclude with 1 or more of the following results:
      (1)   That the program or activity complained of has been modified to
eliminate the factors which resulted in discrimination against the disabled
individual;
      (2)   That the program or activity will be modified within a specified
reasonable time to eliminate the factors which resulted in discrimination
against the disabled individual;
      (3)   (a)   That modification of the program or activity will require
action of the Summit Township Board. In this event, the complainant shall be
notified of the time and date of the next regular board meeting allowing
sufficient time for the matter to be placed on the agenda and for the
complainant to prepare for and appear at the board meeting.
         (b)   At the hearing in the matter the Board shall review the files,
records, and report of the Handicapped Coordinator and the additional and
further evidence as the Handicapped Coordinator, the complainant or any other
interested party may offer.
         (c)   The Township Board shall render its decision in the matter not
later than the date of its next regular meeting.
      (4)   That the Handicapped Coordinator, after investigation of the
allegations, has determined that no disabled discrimination has taken place.
The complainant shall also be notified that he or she may appeal this
determination to the Summit Township Board. The appeal should be placed on the
agenda of the next regular Board meeting which allows reasonable time for the
complainant to prepare for and attend the meeting. At the hearing in the
matter, the Township Board shall review the files, records, and report of the
Handicapped Coordinator and the additional and further evidence as the
Handicapped Coordinator, the complainant, or any other interested party may
offer. The Township Board shall render its decision in the matter not later
than the date of its next regular meeting.
   (E)   A complainant feeling aggrieved by a determination of the Township
Board may file a request for review with the Office of Revenue Sharing,
Washington, D.C.
(Res. passed 10-9-1984)
ADOPTED POLICIES
§ 32.20 MICHIGAN EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE COMPACT ADOPTED.
   In order to maximize the prompt, full, and effective use of resources of all
participating governments in the event of an emergency or disaster, we hereby
adopt the Michigan Emergency Management Assistance Compact, being M.C.L.A. §§
3.991-3.994 and 3.1001-3.1004, which is attached to the resolution passed 11-9-
2004 and incorporated by reference.
(Res. 1001, passed 11-9-2004)
§ 32.21 SUMMIT TOWNSHIP RECREATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Summit Township Board of Trustees hereby approves and adopts the 2008-
2012 Summit Township Recreation Plan.
(Res. passed 11-12-2002; Am. Res. passed 12-11-2007)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL
Section
   
33.01   Adoption by reference
§ 33.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The township’s personnel provisions are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Program oversight
   
34.03   Disaster response
   
34.04   Resource use
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   Summit Township has elected to be incorporated into the Jackson County
Emergency Management Program. By becoming part of the county emergency
management program Summit Township and Jackson County have certain
responsibilities to each other. This Support Emergency Operations Plan has been
developed to identify the responsibilities between Summit Township and Jackson
County in regard to pre-disaster emergency management activities. It also
provides for Summit Township government agencies to respond to various types of
emergencies or disasters that affect the community. This support plan is to be
used in conjunction with the Jackson County Emergency Operations Plan. Review
of this support plan shall be accomplished concurrently with the county plan.
(Res. 1001, passed 11-9-2004)
§ 34.02 PROGRAM OVERSIGHT.
   Pursuant to Act 390, P.A. 1976 as amended and the joint resolution of the
City and County of Jackson an Emergency Management Coordinator, the Sheriff of
Jackson County, has been appointed by the Chairman of the Jackson County Board
of Commissioners and the Mayor of the City of Jackson and upon recommendation
of the City Manager the and Jackson County Administrator. The Sheriff has named
a Program Manager this person coordinates all mitigation, preparedness,
response and recovery activities. The position of the Emergency Management
Coordinator or Program Manager is within the Office of Emergency Management.
Duties are performed full time. The Program Manager reports to the Sheriff on a
day-to-day basis, but keeps the County Administrator and City Manager informed.
Operating costs for the office, including wages, are shared between the City
and County of Jackson. If the Township appoints the Emergency Management
Coordinator or Program Manager as its Coordinator, the Emergency Management
Coordinator or Program Manager acts for and at the direction of the Township
Supervisor in concert with the Township Emergency Management Liaison.
(Res. 1001, passed 11-9-2004)
§ 34.03 DISASTER RESPONSE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator has been appointed as the Township Emergency
Management Liaison, responsible for working with the County Emergency
Management Coordinator or Program Manager on all matters pertaining to
emergency management within Summit Township.
   (B)   Assure that Township emergency response agencies, elected officials
and the county Emergency Management Coordinator or Program Manager are notified
of the situation.
   (C)   Township agencies assess the nature and scope of the emergency or
disaster.
   (D)   If the situation can be handled locally, do so, using the procedures
in this plan.
      (1)   The Emergency Management Liaison advises the Township Supervisor
and coordinates all emergency response actions.
      (2)   The Township Supervisor or designee declares a local state of
emergency and notifies the county Emergency Management Coordinator or Program
Manager of this action.
      (3)   The Township Supervisor or designee forwards the local state of
emergency declaration to the county Emergency Management Coordinator or Program
Manager Office.
      (4)   The Emergency Management Liaison activates the Township Emergency
Operations Center. This facility is located at the Summit Township Complex,
2121 Ferguson Road or as an alternate site Fire Station #2 located at 2507
Spring Arbor Rd.
      (5)   Township emergency response departments/agencies respond according
to procedures found in Attachment A - Emergency Response Sequence Chart, on
file in the office of the Township Clerk.
      (6)   The Township Supervisor or designee directs departments/agencies to
respond to the situation.
      (7)   The Township Supervisor or designee issues directives as to travel
restrictions on local roads and recommends protective actions if necessary.
      (8)   The Township Supervisor or designee notifies the public of the
situation and appropriate actions to take.
      (9)   The Emergency Management Liaison keeps county Emergency Management
Coordinator or Program Manager informed of the situation and actions taken.
   (E)   If Township resources become exhausted or if special resources are
required, request county assistance through the county Emergency Management
Coordinator or Program Manager as provided in §
34.04.
   (F)   If assistance is requested, the county Emergency Management
Coordinator or Program Manager assesses the situation and makes
recommendations.
   (G)   The county will do the following:
      (1)   Activate the County Emergency Operations Center;
      (2)   Activate the County Emergency Operations Plan;
      (3)   Respond with county resources as requested;
      (4)   Activate mutual aid agreements;
      (5)   Coordinate county resources with Township resources;
      (6)   Notify Michigan State Police District Emergency Management
Coordinator;
      (7)   Forward Flash Report and Damage and Injury Assessment Report to
Michigan State Police, Emergency Management Division; and
      (8)   Assist Township with prioritizing and allocating resources.
   (H)   If county resources are exhausted, the county makes a request to the
Governor to declare a state of emergency or state of disaster in accordance
with procedures set forth in Act 390, as amended. The county shall not request
state assistance or a declaration of a state of disaster or a state of
emergency unless requested to do so by the Township Supervisor if the situation
occurs solely within the confines of the township.
   (I)   If state assistance is requested, the State Police District Emergency
Management Coordinator or Program Manager, in conjunction with the county
Emergency Management Coordinator or Program Manager and Township Emergency
Management Liaison, assesses the disaster or emergency situation and recommends
the personnel, services, and equipment that are required for its prevention,
mitigation, or relief.
   (J)   After completing the assessment the District State Police Emergency
Management Coordinator immediately notifies the State Director of Emergency
Management of the situation.
   (K)   The State Director of Emergency Management notifies the Governor and
makes recommendations.
   (L)   If state assistance is granted, procedures will be followed as stated
in the Michigan Emergency Management Plan and the County Emergency Operations
Plan.
(Res. 1001, passed 11-9-2004)
§ 34.04 RESOURCE USE.
   (A)   It is further mutually understood that mutual aid concepts and
principles cover any and all such incidents to the point of an incident
qualifying for state/federal financial assistance.
   (B)   The following policy shall govern payment for use of resources by a
township providing assistance to another township in the event of an emergency
or disaster:
      (1)   Payment shall be made if the emergency or disaster qualifies for
state and/or federal financial assistance and is received;
      (2)   Payment shall be limited to the amount received from state and/or
federal sources;
      (3)   Payment shall be made to the local unit of government if mutually
agreed upon by both parties; and
      (4)   Payment will not be made if the emergency does not qualify for
state/federal financial assistance.
(Res. 1001, passed 11-9-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWER CONNECTION, USE, AND RATES
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Water Supply System
   
50.01   Operation and maintenance
   
50.02   Connection fees
   
50.03   Water use rates
   
50.04   No free service
   
50.05   Enforcement
   
50.06   Ordinance conflicts
   
50.07   Publication
   
50.08   Water connection required
   
50.09   Well abandonment
   
50.10   Nuisance per se
   
50.11   Court action for abatement of nuisance
   
50.12   Civil infraction
Water Supply Cross-Connections
   
50.25   Generally
   
50.99   Penalty
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
§ 50.01 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The operation, repair, and management of the Water Supply System,
including water mains, pumping stations, storage facilities, and all facilities
or appurtenances used in connection with the supplying and distributing of
water to the residents of the township shall be under the supervision and
control of the Township Board.
   (B)   The Township Board may make the rules, orders, and regulations as it
deems necessary to assure the efficient management and operation of the Water
Supply System.
(Ord. 103, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 50.02 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   All premises connecting to the Water Supply System shall pay a
connection fee based upon the size of the pipe connected to the Water Supply
System.
   (B)   The connection fees shall be as established by resolution of the
Township Board from time to time, and as set forth in the records kept by the
Township Clerk in the Township Hall.
(Ord. 103, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 WATER USE RATES.
   (A)   Unmetered rates. Unmetered rates for 3/4-inch and 1-inch connections
to the Water Supply System shall be as established by resolution of the
Township Board from time to time, and as set forth in the records kept by the
Township Clerk in the Township Hall.
   (B)   Metered rates and commercial rates. Metered and commercial rates shall
be as established by resolution of the Township Board from time to time, and as
set forth in the records kept by the Township Clerk in the Township Hall.
   (C)   Water meters. Persons connecting to the Summit Township Water Supply
System shall purchase meters from the township and pay a meter fee as
established by resolution of the Township Board from time to time, and as set
forth in the records kept by the Township Clerk in the Township Hall.
   (D)   Fire hydrant rental. For water use through fire hydrants and for the
availability of the water, the township shall pay an annual hydrant rental
charge of $10,000, which may be paid in equal quarterly installments.
   (E)   Billing.
      (1)   Bills for water service shall be rendered quarterly on June 1,
September 1, January 1, and April 1 of each year and shall be payable without
penalty within 30 days after the billing date.
      (2)   Payments received after the period shall bear a penalty of 10% of
the amount of the bill.
   (F)   Turn-on charge. There shall be no turn-on fee for the initial turn-on
of water when premises connect to the System, but thereafter there shall be a
turn-on fee in the amount of $30 for any premises having the water shut off
from the premises and subsequently turned on to the premises.
(Ord. 103, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No sanitary sewer or water service shall be furnished by the Township free
of charge to any private individual or legal entity, to any unit, agency, or
instrumentality of government, or to any charitable institution, or
organization.
(Res. passed 1-8-2008)
§ 50.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The charges for water services which are under the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, make a lien
on all premises served thereby, unless notice is given that a tenant is
responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute the lien and whenever any such
charge against any piece of property shall be delinquent for 6 months, the
township official or officials in charge of the collection thereof shall
certify annually, not later than September 1 of each year, to the tax assessing
officer of the township, the fact of the delinquency, whereupon the charge
shall be by him or her entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the
premises and shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same
manner as general township taxes against the premises are collected, and the
lien thereof enforced.
      (2)   Provided, however, where notice is given that a tenant is
responsible for the charges and services as provided by the § 21, no further
service shall be rendered the premises until a cash deposit in the amount of
$25 shall have been made as security for payment of the charges and service.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the foregoing and other remedies provided by law,
the township shall have the right to shut off and disconnect the supply of
water to any premises for nonpayment of water rates when due.
      (2)   If the charges are not paid within 90 days after the due date
thereof, then water services to the premises shall be discontinued.
      (3)   Water services so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums
then due and owing shall be paid, together with a turn-on charge in the amount
of $30.
(Ord. 103, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 50.06 ORDINANCE CONFLICTS.
   All ordinances, resolutions, or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with
the provisions of this subchapter are, to the extent of the conflict, hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 103, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 50.07 PUBLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be published once, in full, in the Jackson Citizen
Patriot, a newspaper of general circulation within the boundaries of the
township and qualified under state law to publish legal notices, promptly after
its adoption, and the same shall be recorded in the Ordinance Book of the
township and the recording authenticated by the signatures of the Supervisor
and Township Clerk.
(Ord. 103, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 50.08 WATER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   The owners of all dwellings, buildings, structures, or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes,
situated within the township and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way
in which there is now located or may in the future be located public water of
the township is hereby required at their own expense to install suitable water
connection facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly to the
public water system in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The township, acting in its capacity as the Health Department, may
require any such owner, pursuant to the authority conferred upon it by law or
ordinance, to make the installation or connection.
   (B)   (1)   Any premises connecting to the Summit Township water system for
fire protection purposes shall also be connected to the Summit Township water
system for general water usage.
      (2)   Providing, however, that any premises may be connected to the
Summit Township water system for general water usage without connecting the
premises to the system for fire protection purposes.
   (C)   Each individual dwelling, building, or structure shall be connected
separately to the Summit Township water line, and connections to the water line
shall not be shared with other dwellings, buildings, or structures located on
another lot or parcel.
(Ord. passed 1-22-1990; Am. Ord. passed 3-24-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 WELL ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Well abandonment required. All pre-existing wells located on premises
served by Summit Township municipal water system shall be abandoned in
accordance with the terms of this subchapter and as regulated under the
authority of Public Act 368 of 1978, Part 127,and the rules promulgated in the
Michigan Water Well Construction and Pump Installation Code. No later than 60
days from the date of connection to the municipal water system, the property
owner shall notify the Jackson County Health Department and the Township
Department of Public Works if they will plug or re-install the well.
      (1)   (a)   Property owners who do not take their current on site well
out of service, but re-install it to operate independently from the municipal
water system may legally retain their pre-existing on-site well, provided the
re-installed well complies with the Michigan Water Well Construction and Pump
Installation Code and the Jackson County Sanitary Code for private water wells.
         (b)   A re-installed well shall be inspected for compliance with any
applicable codes, standards, rules, and ordinances by both the Jackson County
Health Department and the Township Department of Public Works.
      (2)   (a)   Property owners, who decide to plug an abandoned well, shall
do so within 90 days of the above required notification date.
         (b)   Any well being abandoned and plugged shall be plugged by a
registered well drilling contractor.
         (c)   A well plugging record shall be submitted to the Jackson County
Health Department within 60 days of the well plugging.
      (3)   All costs of any required permit(s), inspection(s), appeal, work,
and materials, shall be paid by the owner of the property upon which the well
is to be re-installed or plugged.
   (B)   Private water wells prohibited. No person, firm, association,
corporation, or any other entity shall install, construct, maintain, or use a
new water well within the township water service area for any purpose
whatsoever, except for agricultural irrigation.
      (1)   Wells installed and maintained for the purpose of groundwater
monitoring and/or remediation as part of a response activity approved or
required by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality;
      (2)   (a)   Wells installed for construction de-watering, provided that
water generated by that activity is handled and disposed of in accordance with
all applicable laws and regulations.
         (b)   Any exacerbation caused by the use of the well under this
exception shall be the responsibility of the person operating the de-watering
well, as provided in Part 201 of the Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 to 324.20142.
      (3)   (a)   Wells installed for agricultural irrigation purposes or due
to the unavailability of municipal water require a permit for the Jackson
County Health Department.
         (b)   Municipal water service shall be considered available if the
distribution system is within 400 feet of a structure to be served or the
property line fronting a public, private, or easement right-of-way where more
than 1 structure is to be or is proposed to be served as a result of a division
of land.
         (c)   No split, land division, or conveyance of property shall be
effective to render the municipal water service unavailable.
   (C)   Re-installation. Any well permitted to be re-installed where the
municipal water is connected shall comply with §§
50.25 et seq. which regulate water supply cross-connections in accordance with
the rules of the Michigan Department of Public Health.
   (D)   Permit. No permit for demolition of a structure connected to or known
to have an on-site well located on the property shall be issued until the on-
site well is plugged in compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2007; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 NUISANCE PER SE.
   A violation of §
50.08 is hereby declared to be a public nuisance or nuisance per se, and is
declared to be offensive to the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 COURT ACTION FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   The township may take civil action requesting injunctive relief action
against any person, firm, association, corporation, or other entity found
violating any provision of §
50.08.
   (B)   This abatement action shall be in addition to any penalty imposed by §
50.11.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2007)
§ 50.12 CIVIL INFRACTION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, corporation, or other entity, violating
any provision of §
50.08 shall be responsible for a municipal infraction as defined in
Chapter 30 and shall be subject to the listed fines.
   (B)   Each day §
50.08 is violated shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   Any action taken under this section shall not prevent civil
proceedings for abatement or termination of the prohibited activity pursuant to
§§
50.09 and
50.10.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2007)
WATER SUPPLY CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 50.25 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The township hereby adopts by reference, as though fully set forth
herein, the water supply cross-connection rules set forth in the Cross
Connection Rules Manual of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality,
Fourth Edition and subsequent editions, being R 325.11401 through R 325.11407.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the township Water Department
(hereinafter referred to as the “Department”) to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the Summit Township public water system in
circumstances where cross connections with the township public water system are
deemed to be possible.
      (2)   The frequency of inspections and reinspections shall be based on
potential health hazards involved, pursuant to a cross-connection control
program as established by the Department and as approved by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.
   (C)    (1)   Any properly designated representative of the Department shall
have the right to enter any property served by a connection to the township
public water system, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of inspecting the
piping system, or systems, located thereon to determine whether there are
cross-connections.
      (2)   The owner(s), lessee(s), or occupant(s) of any property so served
shall, on request, furnish to the authorized representative any requested
information regarding the piping system or systems located on the property.
      (3)   Refusal to furnish requested information, or refusal to permit
access after requested, shall be considered to be evidence of the presence of
cross-connections.
   (D)   (1)   The Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service, after reasonable notice, to any property on which any connection
exists which constitutes a violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Department, further, is authorized and directed to take the
other precautionary measures as are deemed necessary and reasonable to
alleviate or eliminate any danger of contamination to the public water system.
      (3)   Water service to any such property shall not be restored until the
improper cross connection(s) has/have been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The potable water supply made available to properties which are served
by the township public water system shall be protected from possible
contamination as specified in this subchapter and by the state and township
plumbing codes. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic
purposes, and which is not supplied by the potable system, must be labeled as
such in a conspicuous manner such as the following: “WATER UNSAFE FOR
DRINKING.”
   (F)   This subchapter shall not be construed as superseding the State
Plumbing Code or the township plumbing ordinance but shall be construed as
supplemental to the same.
   (G)   This subchapter, or a synopsis thereof, shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the boundaries of the township and
qualified under state law to publish legal notices promptly after its adoption,
and shall take effect immediately upon publication.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 1-10-2006; Am. Ord. passed 2-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or entity found guilty of violating any provision of
§§
50.25 et seq. shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $300
for each violation.
      (2)   Each day upon which a violation occurs shall be deemed to be a
separate and additional violation.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 1-10-2006)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER CONNECTION, USE, AND RATES
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Short title
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   State and federal law requirements
   
51.004   Agreements
   
51.005   Publication
   
51.006   Effective date
   
51.007   Reservation of right to amend
Use of Public Sewer System Required
   
51.020   Discharge of sewage
   
51.021   Sewage disposal facilities
   
51.022   Mandatory connection of properties in service district
   
51.023   Mandatory connection of new construction in service district
   
51.024   Connection of existing improved properties in service district
   
51.025   Connection deadline
   
51.026   Enforcement in the event of a failure to connect
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.040   Private sewage disposal facilities
   
51.041   Operation and maintenance
   
51.042   Governmental requirements
   
51.043   Connection to public sewer system; abandonment
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.055   Permit requirement
   
51.056   Permit application
   
51.057   Approval of application
   
51.058   Excavations, pipe laying, and backfill
   
51.059   Connection of building sewer
   
51.060   Connection of certain drains is prohibited
   
51.061   Public safety requirements; restoration
   
51.062   Cost of installation of building sewer and connection to public sewer;
indemnification
   
51.063   Inspection
   
51.064   Township’s responsibility for repairs, operation, and maintenance
   
51.065   Property owner’s responsibility for repairs, operation, and
maintenance
   
51.066   Contractor requirements
   
51.067   Special provisions for non-domestic users
Use of the Public Sewer System
   
51.080   Prohibited discharge of storm water
   
51.081   Permissible discharge of storm water
   
51.082   Prohibited discharges to public sewer system
   
51.083   Trucked wastes
   
51.084   Categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.085   Future conditions
   
51.086   Special agreements
   
51.087   Reserved right of revision
   
51.088   Dilution
   
51.089   Discharge permit limitations
   
51.090   Remedies; pretreatment
   
51.091   Maintenance of pretreatment facilities
   
51.092   Special arrangements; surcharge
   
51.093   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.094   Control manhole
   
51.095   Special provisions for non-domestic users
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
51.110   Public utility basis; operating year
   
51.111   Connection fee
   
51.112   User charge; debt service charge
   
51.113   Commercial users
   
51.114   User surcharge
   
51.115   Miscellaneous customer fee
   
51.116   Inspection fee
   
51.117   Billing of sewer rates and charges
   
51.118   Unpaid sewer rates and charges
   
51.119   Unpaid sewer rates and charges; remedies
   
51.120   Lien
   
51.121   Rental properties
   
51.122   Cancellation of permits; disconnection of service
   
51.123   Security deposit
   
51.124   Billing address
   
51.125   Interruption of service; claims
   
51.126   Hardship; deferral of tap fee
Revenues
   
51.135   Estimated rates; sufficiency
   
51.136   Revenues; depository
   
51.137   Transfer of funds
   
51.138   Investment of funds
Administrative Appeals; Board of Appeals
   
51.150   Board of Appeals
   
51.151   Informal hearing
   
51.152   Appeals from informal hearing
   
51.153   Payment of amounts outstanding
   
51.154   Effect of administrative action
   
51.155   Appeal from Board of Appeals
Enforcement
   
51.170   Inspection by township
   
51.171   Damage to system
   
51.172   Notice to cease and desist
   
51.173   Civil infraction
   
51.174   Nuisance; abatement
   
51.175   Liability for expenses
   
51.176   Responsible officials
   
51.177   Remedies are cumulative
   
Appendix A: Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
Appendix B: Table of Unit Factors
   
Appendix C: Provisions Applicable Primarily to Major and Non-Domestic Users
   
Appendix D: Monthly Sewer Usage Rates
Cross-reference:
   No free service, see §
50.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Summit Township Sewer Connection, Use,
and Rate Ordinance” and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act,
as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A public sanitary sewer system
(tapped or untapped) located in a right-of-way, easement, highway, street, or
public way which crosses, adjoins, or abuts upon the property and passes not
more than 200 feet at the nearest point from a structure in which sanitary
sewage originates.
   B.O.D. OR BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in PPM by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge of sewage inside of the walls of the
building and conveys the discharge to the building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain which conveys the
discharge of sewage to the public sewer system and its components or other
place of disposal.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS (also FCPS).
      (1)   The national pretreatment standards specifying quantities or
concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties which may be discharged
into a system by a specific category of industrial users described in the
standards.
      (2)   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS include the categorical
standards and those which are hereafter promulgated by USEPA, along with
amendments to the existing or hereafter promulgated standards, as set forth in
Appendix A of this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Jackson.
   C.O.D. Chemical oxygen demand or the measure of the oxygen consuming
capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater,
expressed as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a
specified test; it does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic
matter, and thus does not necessarily correlate with B.O.D.
   CODE. Code of the City of Jackson.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any sewer designed or intended to receive both storm water
and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   The pollutants which can be treated and removed to a substantial
degree by the Sewage Treatment Facility.
      (2)   These pollutants include but are not limited to defined maximum
concentrations of B.O.D.5, S.S., pH, and additional pollutants identified in
the discharge permit if the Sewage Treatment Facility was designed to treat the
pollutants, and in fact does remove the pollutant to a substantial degree.
   CONNECTION FEE.
      (1)   The charge imposed by the township to grant permission to connect a
building sewer, either directly or indirectly, to the public sewer system.
      (2)   This fee represents the proportional cost attributable to each
premises for making the system available with sufficient capacity to service
the premises.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment (including contractual obligations to purchase the facilities or
equipment) at the premises where the equipment will be used, including
preparation work at the premises, if the equipment will in any way actually or
potentially affect the quality or quantity of discharges or the measurement or
analysis of a discharge.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure installed on the building sewer or service
connection pipeline to allow access for measurement and sampling of sewage
discharging from industrial and commercial establishments.
   COST OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All costs, direct and indirect, inclusive
of all expenditures attributable to administration, cost of replacement,
treatment and collection of sewage, necessary to insure adequate collection and
treatment of sewage on a continuing basis in conformance with the discharge
permit, and other applicable local, state, and federal regulations.
   COST OF REPLACEMENT. Expenditures and costs for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service
life of the system to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
system was designed and constructed.
   COUNTY. The County of Jackson, Michigan, acting by and through its Board of
Public Works under Public Act 185 of 1957, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
123.731 - 123.786.
   DAILY AVERAGE.
      (1)   The sum of the concentrations of a constituent for the measurement
period divided by the number of days on which the discharge was sampled and
analyzed in the period.
      (2)   The concentrations which are added are single numbers for single
days for all days for which analyses are obtained (whether by the user or the
township), but the concentrations may be based upon a sample or samples taken
over either all or part of that day and upon single or multiple analyses for
that day as determined by the township.
      (3)   Sampling for daily average shall be 24-hour flow proportioned
composite samples except that a minimum of 4 grab samples shall be taken in
lieu of a 24-hour flow proportioned composite sample for a single day for pH,
cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic
compounds.
      (4)   If it is not feasible to obtain a flow proportioned composite
sample, a time proportioned composite sample for a minimum of 4 grab samples
may be used in lieu of the flow proportioned composite sample, if the user
demonstrates to the Township Supervisor that representative samples will be
obtained.
   DAILY MAXIMUM.
      (1)   The concentration which shall not be exceeded on any single
calendar day.
      (2)   Sampling for daily maximum shall be a 24-hour flow proportioned
composite samples except that a minimum of 4 grab samples shall be taken in
lieu of a 24-hour flow proportioned composite sample for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compound.
      (3)   If it is not feasible to obtain a flow proportioned composite
sample, a time proportioned composite sample or a minimum of 4 grab samples may
be used in lieu of the flow proportioned composite sample if the user
demonstrates to the Township Supervisor or his or her designee that a
representative sample will be obtained.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount charged to certain users of the public sewer
system to pay principal, interest, and administrative costs of retiring debt
and/or contractual obligations incurred for construction of portions of the
public sewer system, for which the cost thereof was not otherwise defrayed by
connection fees or special assessments.
   DIRECT CONNECTION. The connection of the building sewer directly to the
public sewer system.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the system which is either
intentional or unintentional.
   DISCHARGE PERMIT. Permit issued by the MDEQ for the discharge of treated
sewage from the sewage treatment facility.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The liquid wastes from all habitable buildings and
residences and shall include human excreta and wastes from sinks, lavatories,
bathtubs, showers, laundries and all other water-carried wastes of organic
nature either singly or in combination thereof.
   DWELLING UNIT. For purposes of assigning units, a “dwelling” unit shall
contain, at a minimum, sleeping facilities, a toilet, bath or shower and a
kitchen.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source which is not a new source as defined in this
section.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   GROUNDWATER.
      (1)   Water which is pumped or otherwise captured from the ground and
which is not used in a process.
      (2)   Mere treatment of groundwater is not use in a process.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. Jackson County Health Department.
   INDIRECT CONNECTION. The connection of a building sewer to a sewage
collection system which is installed and paid for by special assessment or
private funds, which sewage collection system is, after construction, turned
over to the township and/or the county and becomes part of the public sewer
system (e.g., if a developer constructs sanitary sewers in a plat and connects
the sewer line to the public sewer system, the connection of each lot in the
plat would be an INDIRECT CONNECTION).
   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Users which discharge industrial wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes, solids, or semisolids from industrial,
manufacturing, trade, or business processes as distinct from domestic sewage.
   INSPECTION FEE. The amount charged to each applicant by the township at the
time an application is made to the township for connection to the public sewer
system, to cover the routine cost of inspecting and approving the physical
connection of a building sewer and service connection to the public sewer
system, and the issuance of a connection permit.
   INSPECTOR. The persons responsible for inspecting connections of building
sewers and service connection to the public sewer system as designated by the
township.
   INTERFERENCE.
      (1)   A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
         (a)   Inhibits or disrupts the System, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and
         (b)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations).
      (2)   See § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.,
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred
to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq., and including state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being
33 U.S.C. §§ 2681 et seq., and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act, being 16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MAJOR USER. Any user of the system that:
      (1)   Has a discharge to the system of 25,000 gallons or more per average
work day;
      (2)   Discharges or has the potential to discharge any toxic pollutant as
defined pursuant to § 307 of the Act, or chlorinated dibenzo dioxins or
chlorinated dibenzo furans;
      (3)   Is found by the Township Supervisor or his or her designee to
potentially have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
users, on the system;
      (4)   Is subject to a FCPS; or
      (5)   Discharges wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the average dry
weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the system.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MG/L. Milligrams per liter, or ppm.
   µg/l. Micrograms per liter, or ppb.
   MISCELLANEOUS USER FEE. The amount charged to users for miscellaneous
services and related administrative costs associated with the system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the Act which
will be applicable to the source if the standards are thereafter promulgated in
accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge at an
existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) and (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces,
or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this section has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this section.
   NON-DOMESTIC USER. A user other than a domestic user.
   NORMAL STRENGTH. Sewage which when analyzed shows a daily average
concentration of not more than 200 mg/l of BOD, nor more than 240 mg/l of
suspended solids; nor more than 10 mg/1 of phosphorous; nor more than 50 mg/
1 of fats, oils, and grease; nor other substances which may solidify or become
viscous between 32°F and 150°F; nor more than 40 mg/l of TKN.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to the national pollution discharge
elimination system for the discharge of wastewater into the surface waters of
the state.
   NUISANCE. Without limitation, any condition where sewage or the effluent
from any sewage disposal facility is exposed to the surface of the ground; or
is permitted to drain on or to the surface of the ground or into any natural
outlet.
   ORGANIC CHEMICALS. Compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen or their
derivatives which are human-made or byproducts of human-made or natural
substances which include, but are not limited to, synthetic fibers, plastics,
rubber, medicinals, solvents, surface-active agents, pesticides and other
agricultural chemicals and lubricating oil additives or other petroleum
derivatives.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the system into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the system’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration, of a violation).
   pH.
      (1)   The negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
solution, in grams per liter.
      (2)   A measure of relative acidity (pH less than 7) or alkalinity (pH
greater than 7) of the solution tested.
      (3)   A neutral solution has a pH of 7.
   PPM. Parts per million.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group, public or private.
   POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Any material which is discharged to the system or is proposed for
discharge to the system.
      (2)   The term also includes properties of the materials such as pH and
heat.
   PRETREATMENT.
      (1)   The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in sewage
or a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing the pollutants in the system.
      (2)   The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical,
or biological processes, process changes, or by other means except as
prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d) and (e), as amended.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded or cut to the degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM OR SYSTEMS. The public sanitary sewer collection and
transmission system within the township, as extended from time to time,
including Jackson County Sanitary Sewage Disposal System Nos. 6 and 8 (Summit
Township), and all extensions made thereto, including all publicly-owned
service connections, mains, lift stations, odor control facilities, and all
appurtenances thereto, located in the Service District and also the Sewage
Treatment Facility.
   RECEIVING FUND. The fund established pursuant to §§
51.135 et seq. to receive collections of sewer rates and charges.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight tank or receptacle used to receive domestic sewage
and intended to provide for the separation of substantial portions of the
suspended solids in the sewage and the partial decomposition by bacterial
action on solids so separated.
   SERVICE AGREEMENT. The agreement by and between the township and the City of
Jackson for treatment of wastewater by the city.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The portion of the public sewer system which extends
either to or onto the parcel of land adjacent to the path of the public sewer
system, and includes the sewer main, tee/wye, valve, check valve, connector
pipes, the sewer lead, any grinder pump or similar system, with associated
electrical controls and connections at the electrical meter (but not including
the meter) and appurtenances, but not including the building sewer.
   SERVICE DISTRICT. Sewer Districts Nos. 1, 2, and 3, and all other areas of
the township which are now or hereafter served by the system.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE.
      (1)   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities of a user which causes them to
become all or partially inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of
natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a
bypass.
      (2)   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays
in production.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of the water-carried waste material from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, including
industrial wastes and domestic sewage.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES. Any septic tank, subsurface disposal system, or
other devices used in the disposal of sewage and which are not part of the
system.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY. The publicly-owned physical plant and
appurtenances designated to receive and treat the raw, untreated sewage of the
properties located in the service district and served by the public sewer
system, and owned by the City of Jackson.
   SEWER LEAD. The portion of the service connection which connects to the
sewer main located in the public right-of-way and extends therefrom to the
property line.
   SEWER RATES AND CHARGES. The connection fee, including any part thereof
payable in installments, user fee, debt service charge, user surcharge,
miscellaneous user fee, and the civil penalty imposed pursuant to §
51.025.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. A discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility, vehicle, or installation from
which there is or may be a discharge to the system.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT. All special assessment districts determined at
any time by the Township Board within the service district for the provision of
sanitary sewer service by the public sewer system.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL. All special assessment district rolls confirmed at
any time for a special assessment district by the Township Board.
   STATE DIRECTOR. The executive secretary of the water resources commission of
the State of Michigan.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, and drainage of waters which are not wastewater.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface waters,
or drainage, but excludes sewage.
   STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building in which toilet,
kitchen, laundry, bathing, or other facilities which generate sewage are used
or are available for use for household, commercial, industrial, or other
purposes.
   SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An arrangement for distribution of septic tank
effluent beneath the ground surface (also referred to as a “drainfield system,”
“tile field,” or “dry well” or a “soil absorption system”).
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids either floating or suspended in sewage, or
other liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtering and biologic
processes.
   SYSTEM TREATMENT PLANT. The system exclusive of the collection system.
   TKN. Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen; the measure of the total ammonia nitrogen
present in wastewater after any organic nitrogen present has been converted to
ammonia nitrogen under standard digestive procedures and expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Summit, located in Jackson County, Michigan, and/
or its duly authorized agent or representative.
   TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR. The Supervisor of the Township of Summit, or, where the
Supervisor has delegated a responsibility, function, or right under this
chapter to another official or employee of the Township of Summit, another
governmental body, another governmental agency, governmental departments, or
another official employee of another public body, the term shall include that
person.
   UNIT or UNITS.
      (1)   A standard basis of measuring the relative quantity of sewage,
including the benefits derived from the disposal thereof, arising from the
occupancy of a freestanding single-family residential dwelling (but the term
shall not necessarily be related to actual use arising from any particular
dwelling).
      (2)   A listing of the relative relationships between the various users
of the system is hereby determined by the township and is set forth in
Appendix C of this chapter.
      (3)   The assignment of unit(s) to a particular user shall be determined
from time to time by the township, based upon the use to which the user’s
property is put.
      (4)   The assignment of unit(s) for any use not enumerated in
Appendix C of this chapter shall, in the sole discretion of the township, be
based upon the most similar use enumerated in
Appendix C of this chapter.
   UPSET.
      (1)   An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards or other
limits applicable to the user because of factors beyond the reasonable control
of the user.
      (2)   An UPSET does not include non-compliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   U.S. EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   USER. A recipient of services provided by the system including premises
which are connected to and discharge sewage into the system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the system which represents that
user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
cost of replacement).
   USER CLASS. The kind of user class connected to sanitary sewers, including,
but not limited to, residential, industrial, commercial, institutional, and
governmental.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the system whose premises or buildings
are used primarily as a domicile for 1 or more persons including dwelling units
such as detached, semi-detached and row houses, mobile homes, apartments or
permanent multi-family dwellings (transit lodging is not included, it is
considered a commercial user).
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user of the system which discharges industrial
wastes as distinct from their employees domestic sewage.
      (3)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment listed in the Office of the
Management and Budget’s “Standard Industrial Classification Manual” (SICM),
involved in a commercial enterprise, business or service which, based on a
determination by the township discharges primarily segregated domestic sewage
and which is not a residential user or an industrial user.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the SICM involved
in a social, charitable, religious, or educational function which, based on the
determination by the township, discharges primarily segregated domestic sewage.
      (5)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local government user of
the system.
   USER SURCHARGE. A charge imposed on a user of the system for discharges of
sewage that are in excess of normal strength sewage.
   WASTEWATER. Water discharged to the system by a user which may or may not
contain other pollutants.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT AGREEMENT. The wastewater treatment agreement by and
between the township and city pursuant to which the City of Jackson has agreed
to treat at the sewage treatment facility the sanitary sewage transported by
the system.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.003 STATE AND FEDERAL LAW REQUIREMENTS.
   If any provisions of applicable state or federal law imposes greater
restrictions than are set forth in this chapter, then the provisions of the
state or federal law shall control.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.004 AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The township shall have the authority to negotiate agreements for
sewer extensions with landowners, developers, and other municipalities, which
agreements may take into consideration questions of demand, benefit, capacity,
necessity, timing, and funding and may provide for construction advances,
prepayment of rates and charges, pay back arrangements of up to 15 years and
similar matters.
   (B)   Any such agreements approved by the Township Board prior to the
effective date of this chapter are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.005 PUBLICATION.
   A true copy or a summary of this chapter shall be published in the Jackson
Citizen Patriot within 30 days after the adoption of this chapter by the
township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.006 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect 30 days after its publication
as provided by law.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.007 RESERVATION OF RIGHT TO AMEND.
   Subject to the provisions of the service agreement and the wastewater
treatment agreement, the township specifically reserves the right to amend this
chapter in whole or in part, at 1 or more times hereafter, or to repeal the
same, and by the amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease, or otherwise
modify any of the fees, charges, or rates herein provided.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED
§ 51.020 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE.
   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet within the service district
any sewage or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with standards established by the MDEQ, U.S. EPA, and
this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.021 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall construct or maintain in
the service district any sewage disposal facilities.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.022 MANDATORY CONNECTION OF PROPERTIES IN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   All owners of structures in which sanitary sewage originates, now
situated or hereafter constructed within the service district, are hereby
required at their expense to install suitable plumbing fixtures and connect the
facilities directly with the available public sanitary sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The township may require any such owners, pursuant to the authority
conferred upon it by law or ordinance, to make the installations or connections
which must have the approval (during and after construction) of the Inspector.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.023 MANDATORY CONNECTION OF NEW CONSTRUCTION IN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   All owners of parcels located in the service district which are presently
undeveloped and which are hereafter improved by a structure in which sanitary
sewage originates shall be required to connect to the available public sanitary
sewer system in the manner provided by §§
51.022 and
51.025.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.024 CONNECTION OF EXISTING IMPROVED PROPERTIES IN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Owners of all presently situated structures in which sanitary sewage
originates, which are located in the service district, and which are currently
served by private sewage disposal facilities, shall not be required to connect
to the available public sanitary sewer system until the time as:
      (1)   New private sewage disposal facilities are required;
      (2)   The existing private sewage disposal facilities fail (as determined
by the Health Department); or
      (3)   The structure in which sanitary sewage originates is remodeled and
the cost of the remodeling exceeds the pre-remodeling assessed value of the
structure.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the occurrence of any such event, connection shall be made
to the public sewer system in accordance with §§
51.022 and
51.025.
      (2)   In the alternative, an owner of property subject to this section
may connect to the public sewer system at any time in compliance with the terms
of this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.025 CONNECTION DEADLINE.
   (A)   As a matter of public health, all connections to the public sewer
system required hereunder, shall be completed no later than 12 months after the
last to occur of the date of official notice by the township to make the
connections or the modification of a structure so as to become a structure in
which sanitary sewage originates.
   (B)   Newly constructed structures required to connect shall be connected
prior to occupancy thereof.
   (C)   Persons who fail to complete a required connection to the public sewer
system within the 12-month period shall be liable for a civil penalty equal in
amount to the user charges and debt service charges that would have accrued and
been payable had the connection been made as required.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.026 ENFORCEMENT IN THE EVENT OF A FAILURE TO CONNECT.
   (A)   In the event a required connection to the public sewer system is not
made within the time provided by §
51.025, the township shall require the connection to be made immediately after
notice given by first-class or certified mail or by posting on the property.
   (B)   The notice shall give the approximate location of the available public
sanitary sewer system and shall advise the owner of the affected property of
the requirement and enforcement provisions provided by township ordinance and
state law.
   (C)   In the event the required connection is not made within 90 days after
the date of mailing or posting of the written notice, the township may bring an
action in the manner provided by law in a court of competent jurisdiction for a
mandatory injunction or court order to compel the property owner to immediately
connect the affected property to the available public sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.040 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   If a public sewer system is not available to a parcel of land located in the
service district in accordance with the provisions of §§
51.020 et seq., the building sewer shall be connected to private sewage
disposal facilities constructed in compliance with requirements of the Health
Department and the MDEQ.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.041 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.042 GOVERNMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the township, the
Health Department, the MDEQ, or any other governmental agency with jurisdiction
over the district.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.043 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   At the time as the public sewer system becomes available to a parcel
served by private sewage disposal facilities, as provided in accordance with §§
51.020 et seq., the building sewer shall be connected to the public sewer
system in compliance with this chapter, except as provided in §
51.024.
   (B)   The private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned for sanitary
use in the manner required by the Health Department.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.055 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any portion of the public sewer system without
first obtaining a written permit of the class appropriate to the use of the
premises from the township in accordance with §
51.056.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.056 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A connection to the public sewer system shall be made only by an
authorized contractor or plumber upon written authorization and a service
connection permit issued by the township.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be 3 classes of permits for connections to the
System: Class I - Residential Users; Class II - Commercial, Institutional, and
Governmental Users; and Class III - Industrial Users.
      (2)   In all cases, the owner shall make application on a form furnished
by the township for a permit of the applicable class to connect to the system
or storm sewer.
      (3)   The application shall be supplemented by the wastewater information
as required by the township to administer this chapter.
      (4)   The City of Jackson may deny a connection permit for a Class III
connection if the application shows that anticipated discharges will be harmful
to the system or storm sewer, will violate the provisions of this chapter,
violate the provisions of the City of Jackson Code, or in any other way will
hamper the operation of the system or storm sewer.
   (C)   The permit application shall be accompanied by payment of the
applicable connection fee determined in accordance with §
51.111, any civil penalty which has accrued pursuant to §
51.025 and the inspection fee, the plans and specifications of all plumbing
construction within the premises (when requested), and all other information
required by the township.
   (D)   (1)   The township may deny a connection permit if the application for
a permit shows that anticipated discharges will be harmful to the system or
storm sewer, will violate the provisions of this chapter, or in any other way
will hamper the operations of the system or storm sewer.
      (2)   The township or its designee may require, as a condition to
granting the permit, that the applicant enter into an agreement as set forth in
§
51.086.
   (E)   (1)   The township shall not issue a connection permit for any
applicant unless there is sufficient capacity, not legally committed to other
users, in the system or storm sewer to convey and adequately treat the quantity
and quality of wastewater which the required connection will add to the system
or storm sewer.
      (2)   The township may allow the permit if there are legally binding
commitments to provide the needed capacity, and the township has available
capacity.
   (F)   Permits for major users shall be issued by the township or its
designee pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 27 of the City of Jackson Code,
but all applicable connection fees shall be paid to the township.
   (G)   A violation of a connection permit is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.057 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   The approval of a service connection permit application shall be subject to:
   (A)   Compliance with all terms of this chapter, including, without
limitation, §
51.056 above, and the rules and regulations of the Health Department and the
MDEQ;
   (B)   The availability of capacity in the system, including compatible
pollutant capacity; and
   (C)   Compliance of the plans and specifications for connection with the
following standards for construction.
      (1)   The design, installation, and connection of the building sewer and
service connection shall meet the specifications approved from time to time by
the township and on file for public inspection at the township offices.
      (2)   (a)   The building sewer serving only 1 dwelling unit shall not be
less than 4 inches in diameter, nor less than 6 inches if serving other
premises, and is subject to inspection by the Inspector at the time of
connection to the service connection.
         (b)   In the event the inspection reveals a deficiency or
nonconformity in the building sewer, the connection of the building sewer to
the service connection shall not be completed or approved until the owner has
corrected the deficiency or nonconformity to the satisfaction of the Inspector.
      (3)   (a)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
         (b)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to and within 3 feet of
any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened.
         (c)   The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.
         (d)   Where this minimum depth cannot be obtained, the building sewer
shall be laid at a minimum grade of 1/4 inch per foot, sloping towards the
service connection.
      (4)   (a)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the service connection, the sewage carried by the
building drain shall be lifted by means acceptable to the township and
discharged to the service connection.
         (b)   However, operation and maintenance of all interior lift pumps
and injectors shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
      (5)   Where the public sewer system is more than 12 feet deep measured
from established street grade, a riser may be constructed on the service
connection using methods and materials approved by the township.
      (6)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
      (7)   (a)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided
for every building; except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as 1 building sewer.
         (b)   Other exceptions will be allowed only by special permission
granted by the township.
      (8)   (a)   Connection of the building sewer to the public sewer system
shall conform to requirements of the building and plumbing code, applicable
rules of the county, and specifications for installation and materials prepared
by the director of the township’s DPW and approved by resolution of the
Township Board.
         (b)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the Inspector.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.058 EXCAVATIONS, PIPE LAYING, AND BACKFILL.
   (A)   All excavations, pipe laying, and backfill required for the
installation of building sewers and service connections shall be done to
conform to requirements and standards approved by the township.
   (B)   No backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and
approved by the Inspector.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.059 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer system shall be
made at the service connection.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.060 CONNECTION OF CERTAIN DRAINS IS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior footing or
foundation drains, areaway drains, storm drains, or other points of entry of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to the public sewer system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.061 PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; RESTORATION.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation and connection to the
public sewer system shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so
as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored at the cost of the property owner in a
manner satisfactory to the township, the County Road Commission and all other
governmental entities having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.062 COST OF INSTALLATION OF BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation of the building
sewer and the connection thereof to the public sewer system shall be borne by
the owner of the property being connected.
   (B)   No work shall be commenced before the owner obtains any necessary
permission to work in the public right-of-way from the County Road Commission.
   (C)   The owner shall indemnify the township from all loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be caused by the installation and connection of the
building sewer to the public sewer system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.063 INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   A service connection permittee shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer and service connection are ready for inspection.
      (2)   The excavation shall be left open until inspection is complete.
      (3)   If the Inspector determines that the building sewer and service
connection have been constructed and installed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, the building sewer shall then be connected with
the service connection under the observation of the Inspector.
      (4)   The inspection shall include the installation of all required
components of the service connection, including without limitation, wiring,
conduit, sealants, riser, discharge lines, and related necessary appurtenances.
   (B)   Connection by major users shall also be inspected by the City of
Jackson.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.064 TOWNSHIP’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   The cost of all repairs, operation, maintenance, and replacement of the
public sewer system township, shall be borne by the township as part of the
township’s budgeted annual expense of the system, subject to the right of the
township to impose a miscellaneous customer fee in accordance with §
51.114 below.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.065 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS, OPERATION, AND
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The cost of all repairs, operation, maintenance, and replacements of
existing building sewers and their connection to public sewer systems shall be
borne by the property owner.
   (B)   If the property owner has not granted an easement to the township to
maintain the service connection, then the cost of all repairs, operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the service connection shall also be borne by
the property owner.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.066 CONTRACTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person desiring to construct a service connection or uncover, make any
connection with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenances thereof, shall provide to the township evidence of public
liability insurance insuring the interests of the township, the property owner,
and all persons, for all damages caused by accidents attributable to the work,
with limits of $100,000 for 1 person, $300,000 for bodily injuries per
accident, and $100,000 for property damages.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.067 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS.
   Special provisions for connection and use, which are applicable primarily to
major users and non-domestic users, are found in
Appendix C of this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM
§ 51.080 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, to the public
sewer system, any:
      (1)   Storm water;
      (2)   Surface water;
      (3)   Ground water;
      (4)   Water from footing drains;
      (5)   Roof runoff;
      (6)   Subsurface drainage;
      (7)   Unpolluted cooling water; or
      (8)   Unpolluted industrial process waters.
   (B)   Any premise connected to a storm sewer shall comply with county,
state, and federal requirements as well as those of the township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.081 PERMISSIBLE DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER.
   Unpolluted water, storm water, and all other unpolluted drain water shall be
discharged to the ground surface, to a natural outlet or to a storm sewer or
storm drain in accordance with applicable state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.082 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Generally. No user shall discharge, cause to be discharged, or allow
to be discharged into the system any of the following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the system,
including, but not limited to, pollutants with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140°F (60°C), as determined by a Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, using
the test method specified in ATSM standard D-93-79 or D-93-80k (incorporated by
reference, see Section 260.11) or a Setaflash Closed Cup Tester, using the test
method specified in ATSM Standard D-3278-78 (incorporated by reference, see
Section 260.11) and pollutants which cause an exceedance of 10% of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) at any point within the system;
      (2)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the system in a quantity that may cause acute or chronic health
and safety problems for workers;
      (3)   Pollutants which cause or may cause corrosive structural damage to
the system, and in no case wastewater with pH lower than 5.0 or higher than
10.0;
      (4)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which could cause or do
cause obstruction to flow or interference in the system;
      (5)   Any pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants, released in
a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause or
may cause interference in, the system;
      (6)   Pollutants which may cause or do cause:
         (a)   Impairment of the strength or durability of structures in the
system;
         (b)   Restriction of hydraulic capacity of structures in the system;
and/or
         (c)   Unsafe conditions to personnel in the inspection or maintenance
of structures of the system or unsafe conditions to the general public, with
respect to the collection system.
      (7)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
system resulting in interference, but in no case heat in the quantities that
the temperature at the system treatment plant exceeds 40°C, 104°F, unless the
State Director, upon request of the system, approves alternate temperature
limits;
      (8)   Pollutants which cause or may cause pass through or interference,
including petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that cause or may cause interference or pass through;
      (9)   Any pollutants which exceed the limitations set forth in a
categorical pretreatment standard;
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance;
      (11)   Any pollutant introducing colors not removed in the treatment
process, such as but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (12)   Any unpolluted water, non-contact cooling water, stormwater,
groundwater (contaminated and uncontaminated), or surface water, unless
separate system facilities are available and identified for the discharges;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as such quantities
are defined by applicable state and federal regulations;
      (14)   Any solvent extractables (grease, fat, oil, or other freon soluble
materials) in excess of a daily average of 50 mg/l;
      (15)   Any grease, oil, or other pollutants that will become solid or
viscous at a temperature of 60°C or below after being discharged into the
system;
      (16)   Any insoluble substance retained by a standard No. 8 sieve or
having any dimension greater than 1/2 inch;
      (17)   Insoluble substances having a specific gravity greater than 2.65;
      (18)   Improperly shredded garbage;
      (19)   Sludge which results from a treatment process unless the
Supervisor has determined that it is amenable to treatment by the system
without application of unusual means or expense; and
      (20)   Discharges greater than the following concentrations of specific
pollutants are prohibited:
 
Daily Maximum
(24-Hour Composite)
BOD                    250 mg/l
Total Suspended Solids 250 mg/l
Total Phosphorus       10 mg/l
COD                    500 mg/l
TKN                    40 mg/l
Compound 4-Day Daily Average Daily Maximum Instantaneous Maximum (grab)
Compound                        4-Day Daily Daily Maximum Instantaneous
                                Average                   Maximum (grab)
Inorganics:
Total Arsenic, µg/l            380         380           1,400
Total Cadmium, µg/l            16          40            40
Total Chromium, µg/l           500         2,000         11,000
Hexavalent Chromium, µg/l      46          180           800
Total copper, µg/l             350         1,100         2,300
Total Cyanide, µg/l            15*         60*           1,400
Total Lead, µg/l               83          330           11,000
Total Mercury, µg/l            ND(1)       ND(1)         52
Total Nickel, µg/l             440         1,800         4,000
Total Silver, µg/l             10          40            350
Total Zinc, µg/l               1,300       3,400         5,600
Organics:
Polychlorinated biphenyls, µg/lND(2)       ND(2)         86
Tetrachloroethylene, µg/l      340*        1,400*        4,000
Trichloroethylene, µg/l        3,700*      11,000*       11,000
Pentachlorophenol, µg/l        220*        430*          720
2, 3, 7, 8                      -           -             ND(3)
Tetrachlordibenzo-p-dioxin
2, 3, 7, 8                      -           -             4,000
Tetrachlorodibenzo-furan
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) - Non-detectible per U.S. EPA Method 245.
(2) - Non-detectible per U.S. EPA Method 608.
(3) - Non-detectible to 10 ppq detection level.
* - Based on daily mean calculated from a minium of 4 appropriately
spaced grab samples in lieu of 24-hour composite.
 
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.083 TRUCKED WASTES.
   No wastes or wastewater shall be discharged by any user or person into the
system from a vehicle which transported the waste or wastewater to the point of
discharge, except by the township or its authorized agents in connection with
maintenance of the system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.084 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   A user shall comply with all categorical pretreatment standards and
any other pretreatment requirements established under §§ 307(b), 307(c), or 402
(b)(8) of the Act that are applicable to that user.
   (B)   If a categorical pretreatment standard and another limit contained in
this chapter regulate the same pollutant, then the more restrictive of the 2
shall apply.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.085 FUTURE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Future conditions imposed on the township by government agencies with
proper jurisdiction may require subsequent amendment of these regulations by
the township.
   (B)   Where federal or state promulgated pretreatment standards require
limits on parameters not covered in this regulation or limits more stringent
than those specified in the regulation, the state or federal limits shall have
precedence and take effect with respect to the applicable user on the later of:
      (1)   Their promulgation date; or
      (2)   The date specified for compliance with the standards.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.086 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as preventing a special
agreement between the township or its designee and any user, which may be in
the form of a use permit, whereby wastewater otherwise prohibited by this
section is accepted in the system and other special arrangements are made
between the township and any user.
   (B)   The special arrangements may include, but are not limited to,
pollutant concentration discharge limitations different than those provided in
this section.
   (C)   The township or its designee shall not be obligated to enter into a
special agreement but may do so in its discretion.
   (D)   A special agreement shall not create any vested rights or property
rights for the user.
   (E)   A special agreement shall not create rights to discharge to the system
which the user would not have in the absence of a special agreement.
   (F)   The special agreement may be terminated or modified at will by the
township or its designee.
   (G)   Provisions relating to termination or modification of a special
agreement may be more fully set forth in the special agreement.
   (H)   As a condition to the issuance of or entry into a special agreement,
the township or its designee shall require the user to sign an acknowledgment
and acceptance of the provisions of this section.
   (I)   Any such agreement or arrangement may contain provisions for the user
to pay a surcharge to the township or its designee.
   (J)   A violation of the terms of any special agreement shall be a violation
of this chapter, punishable as provided in §§
51.170 et seq.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.087 RESERVED RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The township reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.088 DILUTION.
   No discharger shall increase the use of potable or process water in any way,
for the purpose of diluting a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment before discharge to the system to achieve compliance with
the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.089 DISCHARGE PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the system any
sewage which would cause effluent from the sewage treatment facility to exceed
discharge limits established in the discharge permit issued for operation of
the system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.090 REMEDIES; PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   If any sewage is discharged, or is proposed to be discharged to the
public sewer system, and the sewage contains the substances or possesses the
characteristics enumerated in this chapter, and which in the judgment of the
township may have a harmful effect upon the system or sewage treatment
facility, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the township may take the actions necessary to:
      (1)   Effect a cease and desist of the discharge of the sewage to the
public sewer system;
      (2)   Reject the sewage;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of the sewage to an acceptable condition prior
to discharge to the public sewer system;
      (4)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (5)   Require payment of a user surcharge to cover the added cost of
handling and treating the sewage pursuant to §§
51.112 and
51.113.
   (B)   Any industrial user who discharges sewage to the system shall pretreat
or limit the discharge to conform to standards set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403
(Pretreatment) or any applicable more stringent state or local rules,
regulations, or standards.
   (C)   (1)   If the township permits the pretreatment or equalization of
sewage flows, the design and installation of the pre-treatment plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the township, the
Health Department, the MDEQ, and shall also be subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, regulations, and laws.
      (2)   No construction of pretreatment or equalization facilities shall
take place until all necessary approvals are obtained in writing, and copies of
the approvals are forwarded to the township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.091 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any sewage, the facilities shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at no expense to the township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.092 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS; SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the township and any user whereby
sewage of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the township for
treatment subject to the service agreement, subject to payment of a user
surcharge by the user and provided the sewage will not damage the system, the
sewage treatment facility, or the receiving water.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.093 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be installed, operated,
maintained, repaired, and replaced by the individual user and at no cost to the
other users of the system when determined by the township to be necessary for
the proper handling of sewage containing ingredients described in §
51.082.
      (2)   As a general rule, all restaurants and similar facilities shall be
required to install a standard grease trap.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be:
      (1)   Of the type and capacity prescribed by the township;
      (2)   Located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection;
      (3)   Constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt
and extreme changes in temperature; and
      (4)   Of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
Interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.094 CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   When required by the township, the owner(s) of any property serviced
by the public sewer shall install a suitable control manhole upstream from the
connection to the public sewer system.
   (B)   The purpose of this control manhole shall be to enable observation,
sampling, and measurements of the wastes discharged from the property.
   (C)   The control manhole shall be at the property line or in a location
approved by the township, shall be easily accessible, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the township and the
Township Engineer.
   (D)   Installation of the control manhole, sampling equipment and other
appurtenances required by the township shall be at the expense of the property
owner.
   (E)   The owner shall operate, maintain, repair, and replace the control
manhole and appurtenances in a safe, accessible, and operable manner at all
times at his or her expense.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.095 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS.
   Special provisions for connection and use, which are applicable primarily to
major users and non-domestic users, are found in
Appendix C of this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.110 PUBLIC UTILITY BASIS; OPERATING YEAR.
   (A)   The system shall be operated and maintained by the township on a
public utility basis pursuant to state law under the supervision and control of
the Township Board, subject to the terms of the service agreement.
   (B)   The Township Board may:
      (1)   Employ the person or persons in the capacity or capacities as it
deems advisable to carry on the efficient management and operation of the
system; and
      (2)   Make the rules, orders, and regulations as it deems advisable and
necessary to assure the efficient management and operations of the system.
   (C)   The system shall utilize an operating year commencing April 1 and
ending on March 31.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.111 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Generally. The owner of all premises required by §§
51.020 et seq. to connect to the system shall pay a connection fee.
   (B)   Computation. The connection fee shall be computed in the following
manner.
      (1)   (a)   Each direct connection to a sewer main which was installed
prior to 7-1-1999, shall be charged a fee of $1,500 per unit.
         (b)   For connection to a sewer main which is not installed as of 7-1-
1999, the connection fee for the premises shall be determined by resolution of
the Township Board from time to time, which shall be based upon the cost of
extending the system to make it available to the premises to be connected, the
number of properties to which the system is made available by the extension
project, and other appropriate factors.
      (2)   (a)   In order to defray the proportional share of the necessary
oversizing of trunks and pumping stations, each indirect connection to a
portion of the system installed as of 7-1-1999, shall be charged a fee of $400
per unit.
         (b)   For indirect connection to a portion of the system which was not
installed as of 7-1-1999, the connection fee for the premises shall be
determined by resolution of the Township Board from time to time and shall be
based upon the cost of extending the system and make it available to premises
to be connected, the number of properties to which the system is made available
by the extension project, and other appropriate factors.
      (3)   The Township Board may impose, by resolution, separate connection
fees for premises served by a grinder pump.
   (C)   Cost and expense of service connection. In addition to the connection
fee as computed in division (B) above, the owner of the premises shall be
liable for the costs and expenses of acquiring and installing the service
connection pursuant to township specification on file at the township.
   (D)   Special assessments.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, those parcels
located in any special assessment district and subject to a full special
assessment on a special assessment roll shall be deemed to have paid the
connection fee for the number of units upon which the special assessment was
based and, if applicable, the cost of acquiring and installing the service
connection.
      (2)   The credit shall not result in a full or partial refund of the
special assessment paid or payable pursuant to the special assessment roll,
unless specifically established by the township at the time the special
assessment roll was confirmed by the township.
      (3)   A partial special assessment (levied for example, on a vacant lot)
shall be offset against the connection fee and, if applicable, the cost of
acquiring a service connection.
   (E)   Multiple unit users.
      (1)   A single-family residential building which constitutes a dwelling
unit will be charged a connection fee based on 1 unit.
      (2)   Other premises shall pay a connection fee based upon the number of
units assigned to the premises by the Table of Unit Factors in
Appendix B of this chapter.
   (F)   Cash payment. Except as otherwise provided, the connection fee shall
be paid in cash, to the extent not offset by a credit, prior to the issuance by
the township of a service connection permit to connect to the public sewer
system pursuant to §§
51.055 et seq.
   (G)   Payment of connection fee in installments.
      (1)   Connection charges as set forth above shall be due and payable upon
application for connection to the system.
      (2)   The charges, however, may be payable in equal annual principal
installments not to exceed 18 in number, beginning when the system became
available for connection.
      (3)   The principal amount of each installment shall be determined by
dividing the connection charge by 18 or the lesser number of annual
installments as determined by resolution of the Township Board.
      (4)   For applications to connect filed with the township after the
system extension is available for connection but prior to the next succeeding
March 1, the initial principal installment shall be paid at the time of
application for connection and the subsequent installments of principal plus
interest computed in the manner provided by this division (G) shall be due and
payable on the succeeding March 1 and/or each March 1 thereafter until paid in
full.
      (5)   For applications to connect filed with the township on or after the
March 1 which next succeeds the date the system extension is available for
connection, the initial installment of principal plus additional installments
of principal equal to the number of years (or partial years) which have elapsed
after the last day of February which next succeeds the date the system
extension is available for connection and the remaining installments of
principal plus interest computed in the manner provided by this division (G)
shall be due and payable on the succeeding March 1 and/or each March 1
thereafter until paid in full.
      (6)   A time price differential charge equal to interest at the rate of
7% per year on the unpaid balance of the connection charge shall be paid along
with the annual principal installment.
      (7)   The Township Board, by resolution, shall establish the number of
installments, qualifications for, and limitations on, payment in installments,
and other appropriate features of the installment payments.
      (8)   The unpaid balance of connection fees may be paid in full at any
time, with interest accrued through the end of the month in which payment is
made.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.112 USER CHARGE; DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Computation.
      (1)   A user charge shall be charged in advance to each premises within
the district connected to the public sewer system as follows in amount
determined by resolution of the Township Board from time to time.
      (2)   The user charge shall be based on metered water usage where the
premises is connected to public water and water usage is metered.
      (3)   For other premises, the user charge shall be based on the number of
units assigned to the premises.
      (4)   A debt service charge, based on units assigned to the premises, may
be imposed by resolution of the Township Board from time to time.
   (B)   Normal strength domestic sewage.
      (1)   The user charges imposed pursuant to this section are applicable
only to users who discharge normal strength domestic sewage.
      (2)   A user who discharges toxic pollutants or sewage into the system
that does not qualify as normal strength domestic sewage shall also pay a user
surcharge determined pursuant to §
51.113 below.
   (C)   Special metering.
      (1)   Upon payment of a fee established by resolution of the Township
Board from time to time, a property owner may arrange at its own expense to
have a second water meter installed for the purpose of measuring water which is
used for lawn or landscape watering, the filling of swimming pools, and similar
activities in which the water used on the premises is not discharged into the
system.
      (2)   Where such a meter is installed, the water usage upon which the
sewer charges are based shall be the total water usage of the premises, less
the amount measured by the special meter.
   (D)   Accrual date.
      (1)   User charges, and debt service charges, if applicable, shall begin
to accrue as of the day of the connection of the building sewer to the public
sewer system in accordance with §§
51.055 et seq.
      (2)   If appropriate, the billing of the charges for the initial billing
period shall be pro rated in arrears.
   (E)   Unoccupied premises.
      (1)   A user charge and debt service charge, if applicable, shall not be
charged to a premises which is not used for a period of 12 consecutive months
(which fact shall be established to the reasonable satisfaction of the
township).
      (2)   The sewer service for the premises shall be turned off by the
township and the appropriate miscellaneous customer fee shall be paid by the
user.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.113 COMMERCIAL USERS.
   (A)   All commercial users discharging into the Summit Township Sanitary
Wastewater System shall be charged at the rate which shall be established by
the Township Board, from time to time, by resolution. The rate established
shall be multiplied by the number of cubic feet of water used by the business.
   (B)   Commercial water users may at their own cost install a second water
meter to meter the water discharged for site or landscape purposes and not
entering the sanitary wastewater system, and no sewer charge shall be made for
such water usage.
   (C)   The sewer charge shall be based upon water usage as determined by
water meter readings and shall be billed with the water bill at the rate which
shall be established by the Township Board, from time to time, by resolution.
The rate established shall be multiplied by the number of cubic feet of water
used by the business.
   (D)   This section supersedes and replaces all previous resolutions of the
Township Board dealing with the same subject matter.
(Res. passed 1-8-2008).
§ 51.114 USER SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The user surcharge payable pursuant to §
51.112(B) above, shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board and shall be sufficient to provide for the proportional
distribution of the increased expense of cost of operation and maintenance of
the system.
   (B)   Factors such as sewage strength, volume, discharge flow rate
characteristics, and the increased expense of the system for the transportation
and treatment of non-qualifying sewage shall be considered and included as a
basis for determining the user surcharge.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.115 MISCELLANEOUS CUSTOMER FEE.
   The township shall, from time to time, establish by resolution of the
Township Board and impose on 1 or more users a miscellaneous customer fee, as
necessary, for miscellaneous service, repairs and related administrative costs
associated with the system and incurred, without limitation, as a result of the
intentional or negligent acts of the user or users, including, for example:
   (A)   Excessive inspection services not covered by the inspection fee;
   (B)   Costs of abating a nuisance pursuant to §
51.174; and
   (C)   Costs incurred by the township to shut off and turn on sewer service.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.116 INSPECTION FEE.
   The inspection fee shall be:
   (A)   Determined from time to time by resolution of the Township Board; and
   (B)   Based upon the actual cost borne by the township for its Inspectors.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.117 BILLING OF SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The township shall bill and collect all sewer rates and charges on a
quarterly basis.
   (B)   Bills will be mailed to each user on or about May 1, August 1,
November 1, and February 1 each year, and shall be payable without penalty
within 30 days after the date of the bill.
   (C)   Payment of the bill shall be made at a location and in a manner
designated by the township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.118 UNPAID SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   If sewer rates and charges are not paid on or before the due date then a
penalty in the amount of 5% shall be added to the balance due.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.119 UNPAID SEWER RATES AND CHARGES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   If sewer rates and charges are not paid on or before the due date, the
township, pursuant to Public Act 178 of 1939, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
123.161 - 123.167 may:
      (1)   Discontinue the services provided by the system by disconnecting
the building sewer from the service connection, or disconnecting the public
water supply, and the service so discontinued shall not be reinstated until all
sums then due and owing, including penalties, interest, and all expenses
incurred by the township for shutting off and turning on the service, shall be
paid to the township;
      (2)   Institute an action in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
collection of the amounts unpaid, including penalties, interest and reasonable
attorney fees; or
      (3)   Enforce the lien created in §
51.119 below.
   (B)   These remedies shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to any
other remedy provided in this chapter or now or hereafter existing at law or
equity.
   (C)   (1)   Under no circumstances shall action taken by the township to
collect unpaid sewer rates and charges, penalties and interest, invalidate or
waive the lien created by §
51.119 below.
      (2)   Before disconnecting service, the township shall give 30-days
written notice to the user at the last known address according to the township
records and the township tax assessment roll.
      (3)   The notice shall inform the user that the user may request an
informal hearing to present reasons why service should not be disconnected.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.120 LIEN.
   (A)   The sewer rates and charges shall be a lien on the respective premises
served by the system.
   (B)   Whenever sewer rates and charges shall be unpaid for 90 days or more,
they shall be considered delinquent.
   (C)   (1)   The township shall certify all delinquent sewer rates and
charges and penalty thereon, annually, on or before September 1, of each year,
to the tax-assessing officer of the township, who shall enter the delinquent
sewer rates and charges, interest, and penalties upon the next tax roll as a
charge against the premises affected.
      (2)   The charge shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes levied against the premises.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.121 RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Unless the landlord satisfies, and maintains compliance with the
provisions of division (B) below, billings for leased premises shall be sent to
the landlord and the premises shall be subject to all liens and other
mechanisms provided by this chapter for collection of sewer rates and charges.
   (B)   (1)   A lien shall not attach for sewer rates and charges to a
premises which is subject to a legally executed lease that expressly provides
that the tenant (and not the landlord) of the premises or a dwelling unit
thereon shall be liable for payment of sewer rates and charges, effective only
for services which accrue after the date an affidavit is filed by the landlord
with the township.
      (2)   This affidavit shall include the names and addresses of the
parties, the expiration date of the lease and an agreement by the landlord to
give the township 20-days written notice of any cancellation, change in, or
termination of the lease.
      (3)   The filing of the affidavit by the landlord shall be accompanied by
a true copy of the lease and a security deposit in the amount equal to the debt
service charge and the user charge for the preceding 4 quarterly billing
periods.
      (4)   Upon the failure of the tenant to pay the sewer rates and charges
when due, the security deposit shall be applied by the township against the
unpaid balance, including interest and penalties.
      (5)   The tenant shall immediately make sufficient payment to the
township to cover the amount of the security deposit so advanced.
      (6)   Upon the failure of the tenant to do so within 10 days of the
advance, the penalties, rights, and remedies set forth in §§
51.118 and
51.119 shall be applicable with respect to the unpaid sewer rates and charges,
including interest and penalties.
      (7)   The security deposit shall be held by the township without interest
and shall be returned to the landlord upon proof of termination of the lease.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.122 CANCELLATION OF PERMITS; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Applications for connection permits may be canceled and/or sewer service
disconnected by the township for any violation of any part of this chapter,
including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the permit application as to the nature or extent
of the property to be serviced by the system;
   (B)   Nonpayment of sewer rates and charges;
   (C)   Failure to keep building sewers and control manholes in a suitable
state of repair;
   (D)   Discharges in violation of this chapter; and/or
   (E)   Damage to any part of the system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.123 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   If the sewer service supplied to a user has been discontinued for
nonpayment of sewer rates and charges, service shall not be reestablished until
all delinquent sewer rates and charges, interest and penalties, and the turn-on
charge has been paid.
   (B)   The township may, as a condition to reconnecting the service, request
that a sum equal to the debt service charge and the user charge for the
preceding 4 quarterly billing periods be placed on deposit with the township
for the purpose of establishing or maintaining any user’s credit.
   (C)   The deposit shall not be considered in lieu of any future billing for
sewer rates and charges.
   (D)   Upon the failure of the user to pay the sewer rates and charges when
due, the security deposit shall be applied by the township against the unpaid
balance, including interest and penalties.
   (E)   The user shall immediately make sufficient payment to the township to
reinstate the amount of the security deposit so advanced.
   (F)   Upon the failure of the user to do so within 10 days of the advance,
the penalties, rights, and remedies set forth in §§
51.118 and
51.119 shall be applicable with respect to any unpaid sewer rates and charges,
including interest and penalties.
   (G)   The security deposit shall be held by the township without interest
and shall be returned to the user upon continued timely payments by the user of
all sewer rates and charges as and when due, for a minimum of 12 months.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.124 BILLING ADDRESS.
   (A)   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
township will be mailed to the user (subject to §
51.120) at the address listed on the permit application filed pursuant to §§
51.055 et seq. unless a change of address has been filed in writing at the
business office of the township.
   (B)   The township shall not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any
bill or notice, nor will the user be excused from nonpayment of a bill or from
any performance required in the notice.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.125 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; CLAIMS.
   (A)   The township shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruption of service, and when the interruption occurs, will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay.
   (B)   Whenever service is interrupted for purpose of working on the
collection system or the treatment equipment, all users affected by the
interruption will be notified in advance whenever it is possible to do so.
   (C)   The township shall, in no event, be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to
damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.126 HARDSHIP; DEFERRAL OF TAP FEE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of evidence of hardship, the township may defer partial
or total payment of a sewer tap fee.
   (B)   As a condition for a deferred or partial payment of a tap fee the
township may require mortgage security on the real property of the person
applying for the hardship deferment. The security may, depending upon the
circumstances be payable upon sale or transfer of the real estate, or upon
death of the person applying for the deferment.
   (C)   HARDSHIP within the definition of this section shall include but not
be limited to those persons who reasonably are unable to pay all or part of the
sewer connection or tap fee by reason of permanent unemployment, sub-standard
income, sub-standard fixed income, extraordinary financial obligations on the
part of the person applying for the deferment or extraordinary illness or the
part of the person or a member of the family of the party applying for the
deferment.
   (D)   No deferment or partial payment for a connection or tap fee shall be
made until such time as the township receives written evidence of the hardship,
and/or other evidence as may be required by the township from time to time.
(Ord. 11.04, passed 1-24-1978)
REVENUES
§ 51.135 ESTIMATED RATES; SUFFICIENCY.
   (A)   The rates hereby fixed are established to be sufficient to provide for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the system as are necessary to
preserve the same in good repair and working order.
   (B)   The rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be
necessary to produce these amounts.
   (C)   An annual audit shall be prepared.
   (D)   Based on this audit, rates for sewage services shall be reviewed
annually and revised as necessary to meet system expenses and to insure that
all user classes pay their proportionate share of the cost of operation and
maintenance.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.136 REVENUES; DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   Generally. The revenues of the system shall be set aside, as
collected, and deposited in a separate depositary account in a bank duly
qualified to do business in Michigan, in an account to be designated Summit
Township Sewer System Receiving Fund (the “Receiving Fund”) and the revenues so
deposited shall be transferred from the Receiving Fund periodically in the
manner and at the time hereafter specified.
   (B)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the Receiving
Fund there shall be first set aside quarterly into a separate depositary
account, designated “Operation and Maintenance Fund,” a sum sufficient to
provide for the payment of the next quarter’s current expenses of
administration and operation of the system and the current expenses for the
maintenance thereof as may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair and
working order, including payment of the charge for sewer treatment to the City
of Jackson.
   (C)   Contract Payment Fund.
      (1)   There shall next be established and maintained a depositary
account, to be designated “Contract Payment Fund,” which shall be used solely
for the payment of the township’s obligations to the county for the system or
any part thereof.
      (2)   There shall be deposited in the fund quarterly, after requirements
of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been met, the sums as shall be
necessary to pay the contractual obligations when due.
      (3)   Should the revenues of the system prove insufficient for this
purpose, the revenues may be supplemented by any other funds of the township
legally available for the purpose.
   (D)   Replacement Fund.
      (1)   There shall next be established and maintained a separate
depositary account, designated “Replacement Fund,” which shall be used solely
for the purpose of making major repairs and replacements of the system if
needed.
      (2)   There shall be set aside into the fund, after provision has been
made for the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Contract Payment Fund, the
revenues as the Township Board shall deem necessary for this purpose.
      (3)   Monies deposited in this fund shall not be transferred out of this
fund.
   (E)   Improvement Fund.
      (1)   There shall next be established and maintained an Improvement Fund
for the purpose of making improvements, extension and enlargements to the
system.
      (2)   There shall be deposited into the fund, after providing for the
foregoing fund, the revenues as the Township Board shall determine.
   (F)   Surplus monies. Monies remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of
any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of the
foregoing funds, may, at the option of the Township Board, be transferred to
the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other project of the
township reasonably related to purposes of the system.
   (G)   Bank accounts. All monies belonging to any of the foregoing funds or
accounts may be kept in 1 bank account, in which event the monies shall be
allocated on the books and records of the township within this single bank
account, in the manner above set forth.
   (H)   Subaccount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, revenues from connection
fees (or portions thereof) payable in part or in whole as payback payments
pursuant to a payback agreement approved by the Township Board pursuant to
which a landowner, developer, or other municipality has advanced all or a
portion of the cost of construction of an extension of the public sewer system
or an extension thereof shall be set aside in a separately designated
subaccount of the Receiving Fund and held therein until due in accordance with
the terms of the payback agreement.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.137 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In the event the monies in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to
provide for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any
monies and/or securities in other funds of the system, except sums in the
Contract Payment Fund derived from special assessment collections or tax
levies, shall be transferred to the Operation and Maintenance Fund, to the
extent of any deficit therein and these monies shall be replaced in the next
operating year.
   (B)   User charges shall then be adjusted to the extent that the transfers
are not required.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.138 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Monies in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
chapter may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in the
manner and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 - 141.138.
   (B)   In the event the investments are made, the securities representing the
same shall be kept on deposit with the bank or trust company having on deposit
the fund or funds from which the purchase was made.
   (C)   Income received from the investments shall be credited to the fund
from which the investments were made.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS; BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 51.150 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In order that the provisions of this chapter may be reasonably applied
and substantial justice done in instances where unnecessary hardship would
result from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, the Township Board
shall serve as a Wastewater Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The duty of the Board shall be to consider appeals from the decision
of the Supervisor and to determine, in particular cases, whether any deviation
from strict enforcement will violate the intent of the ordinance or jeopardize
the public health or safety.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.151 INFORMAL HEARING.
   (A)   An informal hearing before the Supervisor may be requested in writing
by any person deeming itself aggrieved by a citation, order, charge, fee,
surcharge, penalty, or action within 10 days after the date thereof, stating
the reasons therefor with supporting documents and data.
   (B)   The informal hearing shall be scheduled at the earliest practicable
date, but not later than 5 days after receipt of the request, unless extended
by mutual written agreement.
   (C)   The hearing shall be conducted on an informal basis at the Township
Hall or at the place as designated by the Supervisor.
   (D)   The Supervisor shall issue a written statement of his or her decision
within 5 business days after the informal hearing.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.152 APPEALS FROM INFORMAL HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   Appeals from the written decisions of the Supervisor may be made
to the Township Board, acting as a Board of Appeals, within 30 days from the
date of any citation, order, charge, fee, surcharge, penalty, or other action.
      (2)   The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved.
      (3)   The appellant shall file a notice of appeal with the Supervisor and
with the Board, specifying the grounds therefor.
      (4)   Prior to a hearing, the Supervisor shall transmit to the Board a
summary report of all previous action taken.
      (5)   The Board may, at its discretion, call upon the Supervisor to
explain the action.
      (6)   The final disposition of the appeal shall be in the form of a
resolution, either reserving, modifying, or affirming, in whole or in part, the
appealed decision or determination.
      (7)   In order to find for the appellant, a majority of the Board must
concur.
      (8)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, give due notice thereof to interested parties, and decide the same
within a reasonable time.
      (9)   Within the limits of its jurisdiction, the same Board of Appeals
may reserve or affirm, in whole or in part, or may make the order,
requirements, decision, or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made
in the case under consideration, and to that end have all the powers of the
official from whom the appeal is taken.
      (10)   The decision of the Board shall be final.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall meet at the times as the Board may
determine.
      (2)   There shall be a fixed place of meeting and all meetings shall be
open to the public in accordance with applicable laws.
      (3)   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure and keep a record
of its proceedings, showing findings of fact, the action of the Board, and the
vote of each member upon each question considered.
      (4)   The presence of 4 members shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.153 PAYMENT OF AMOUNTS OUTSTANDING.
   (A)   All charges for services, penalties, fees, or surcharges outstanding
during any appeal process shall be due and payable to the township.
   (B)   Upon resolution of any appeal, the township shall adjust the amounts
accordingly.
   (C)   However, the adjustments shall be limited to the previous 1 year’s
billing unless otherwise directed by court order.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.154 EFFECT OF ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If any informal or formal hearing is not demanded within the periods
specified herein, the administrative action shall be deemed final.
   (B)   In the event either or both the hearings are demanded, the action
shall be suspended until a final determination has been made, except for
immediate cease and desist order issued pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.155 APPEAL FROM BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the determinations of the Board of Appeals may be made to
the Circuit Court for the County of Jackson within 20 days as provided by law.
   (B)   The appeals shall be governed procedurally by the Administrative
Procedures Act of the State of Michigan (Public Act 306 of 1979, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 24.201 et seq.).
   (C)   All findings of fact, if supported by the evidence, made by the Board
shall be conclusive upon the Court.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.170 INSPECTION BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   The duly authorized representatives, employees, or agents of the
township and the County, including, but not limited to, the Inspector, the
Township Supervisor, the Township Engineer, the Health Department and
representatives of MDEQ bearing proper identification shall be permitted to
enter at any time during reasonable or usual business hours in and upon all
properties in the service district for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, testing, and emergency repairs in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who applies for and receives sewer services from the
township or owns real property in the service district shall be deemed to have
given consent for all the activities including entrance upon that person’s
property.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.171 DAMAGE TO SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with, climb upon, or enter into any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment of the public sewer system.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.172 NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST.
   (A)   Except for violations of §
51.171, any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the township with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.173 CIVIL INFRACTION.
   (A)   Any violation of §
51.171, or any violation beyond the time limit provided for in §
51.172, shall be a municipal civil infraction, for which the fine shall not be
less than $100 nor more than $500 for the first offense and not less than $300
nor more than $500 for subsequent offenses, in the discretion of the court, and
in addition to all other costs, damages, and expenses provided by law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE.
         (a)   A violation of this chapter committed by the same person within
12 months of a previous violation of the ordinance for which the person
admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
         (b)   Offenses committed on subsequent days within a period of 1 week
following issuance of a citation for a first offense shall all be considered
separate first offenses.
   (C)   Each day that the violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition, become liable for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by reason
of the violation.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.174 NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any nuisance or any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a
nuisance per se.
   (B)   The township in the furtherance of the public health may enforce the
requirements of this chapter by injunction or other remedy and is hereby
empowered to make all necessary repairs or take other corrective action
necessitated by the nuisance or violation.
   (C)   The person who violated this chapter or permitted the nuisance or
violation to occur shall be responsible to the township for the costs and
expenses incurred by the township in making the repairs or taking the action as
a miscellaneous user fee.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.175 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the township and their authorized representatives for any expense,
including reasonable attorney’s fees, loss, or damage incurred by the township
by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.176 RESPONSIBLE OFFICIALS.
   The Township Supervisor and Superintendent of Public Works are hereby
designated as the township officers authorized to issue civil infraction
citations for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 51.177 REMEDIES ARE CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided by this chapter shall be deemed to be cumulative and
not mutually exclusive with any other remedies available to the township.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
APPENDIX A: CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Aluminum Forming      40 C.F.R. § 467
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Canned and Preserved  40 C.F.R. § 407
Fruits and Vegetables
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Canned and Preserved  40 C.F.R. § 408
Seafood
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Cement Manufacturing  40 C.F.R. § 411
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Copper Forming        40 C.F.R. § 468
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Dairy Products        40 C.F.R. § 405
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Electrical and        40 C.F.R. § 469
Electronic Components
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Electroplating        40 C.F.R. § 413
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Feedlots              40 C.F.R. § 412
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for the Battery           40 C.F.R. § 461
Manufacturing Point Source Category
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Grain Mills           40 C.F.R. § 406
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Organic Chemicals     40 C.F.R. § 414
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Plastics Molding and  40 C.F.R. § 463
Forming
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Nonferrous Metals     40 C.F.R. § 471
Forming and Metal Powders
EPA Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Metal Molding and     40 C.F.R. § 464
Casting
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Soaps and Detergents  40 C.F.R. § 417
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Sugar Processing      40C.F.R. § 409
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Textiles              40 C.F.R. § 410
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Fertilizer            40 C.F.R. § 418
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Petroleum Refining    40 C.F.R. § 419
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Iron and Steel        40 C.F.R. § 420
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Nonferrous Metals     40 C.F.R. § 421
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Phosphate             40 C.F.R. § 422
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Steam Electric Power  40 C.F.R. § 423
Generating
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Ferroalloy            40 C.F.R. § 424
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Leather Tanning and   40 C.F.R. § 425
Finishing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Glass Manufacturing   40 C.F.R. § 426
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Asbestos              40 C.F.R. § 427
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Rubber Processing     40 C.F.R. § 428
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Timber Products       40 C.F.R. § 429
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Pulp, Paper and Paper 40 C.F.R. § 430
Board
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Builders paper and    40 C.F.R. § 431
Board Mills
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Meat Products         40 C.F.R. § 432
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Metal Finishing       40 C.F.R. § 433
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for offshore oil and Gas  40 C.F.R. § 435
Extraction
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Mineral Mining and    40 C.F.R. § 436
Processing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Pharmaceutical        40 C.F.R. § 439
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for ore Mining and        40 C.F.R. § 440
Dressing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Paving and Roofing    40 C.F.R. § 443
Materials
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Paint Formulating     40 C.F.R. § 446
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Ink Formulating       40 C.F.R. § 447
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Gum and Wood          40 C.F.R. § 454
Chemicals Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Pesticides Chemicals  40 C.F.R. § 455
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Explosives            40 C.F.R. § 457
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Carbon Black          40 C.F.R. § 458
Manufacturing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Photographic          40 C.F.R. § 459
Processing
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Hospitals             40 C.F.R. § 460
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Inorganic Chemicals   40 C.F.R. § 415
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Coil Coating          40 C.F.R. § 465
EPA Effluent Guidelines for Standards for Porcelain enameling   40 C.F.R. § 466
 
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
APPENDIX B: TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS
Usage Unit Factor
Usage                                                                           Unit Factor
Residence:
Home occupation with single-chair beauty or barber shop: Add .5 unit
State-licensed residential facilities, as defined by Public Act 287 of 1972 (or
successor law of like import) for 6 or fewer residents: Add .5 unit
Family day-care home, as defined in Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 1.00
722.111 - 722.128, (or successor law of like import) for 6 or fewer children:
Add .5 unit
State-licensed residential facilities and group day-care homes for 7 or more
persons shall be metered
Duplex                                                                          1.00 per
                                                                                each unit
Apartment:
One bedroom                                                                     0.50
Two or more bedrooms                                                            1.00
                                                                                1.00 per
Auto Body Shop                                                                  each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1.00 per
Auto Repair Shop                                                                each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1.00 per
Auto Dealer                                                                     each 12
                                                                                employees
Bank                                                                            1.00
Barber Shop                                                                     1.00
                                                                                0.04 per
Bars or Taverns                                                                 seat
                                                                                (minimum of
                                                                                1.00)
                                                                                0.25 per
Beauty Shop                                                                     booth
                                                                                (minimum of
                                                                                1.00)
                                                                                0.30 per
Boarding School                                                                 person
                                                                                (minimum of
                                                                                1.00)
                                                                                0.17 per
Boarding House                                                                  person
                                                                                (minimum of
                                                                                1.00)
Boat and Marine Sales                                                           1.00
Bowling Alley (No bars or lunch facilities)                                     0.18 per
                                                                                alley
                                                                                1.00 for
                                                                                first stall
Car Wash (Robot, stall type)                                                    plus 0.50
                                                                                for each
                                                                                additional
                                                                                stall
                                                                                0.50 per
Car Wash, Self-serve (stall type)                                               stall
                                                                                (minimum of
                                                                                1.00)
                                                                                10.00 per
Car Wash (Production Line)                                                      production
                                                                                line
Churches (All)                                                                  0.01 per
                                                                                seat
Cleaners (Pickup only)                                                          1.00
Cleaners (Cleaning and pressing)                                                1.25 per
                                                                                press
Convalescent Home (Nursing or old-age care center)                              0.50 per bed
Country Club                                                                    0.083 per
                                                                                member
                                                                                1.00 per
Doctors, Dentists or Optometrists                                               professional
                                                                                person
Drug Store w/o fountain                                                         1.00
                                                                                0.083 per
w/fountain                                                                      seat
                                                                                (minimum of
                                                                                1.00)
                                                                                1.00 per
Factories w/o industrial waste                                                  each 12
                                                                                employees
w/industrial waste                                                              To be
                                                                                determined
Fire Stations                                                                   1.00
Fraternal Organizations (members only)                                          1.00 per
                                                                                hall
Fraternal Organizations (members and rentals)                                   2.00 per
                                                                                hall
Funeral Home                                                                    2.00
Furniture Repair                                                                1.00
Gas Station w/o car wash                                                        1.00
                                                                                To be
Gas Station w/ry dump station                                                   determined
                                                                                (1.00
                                                                                minimum)
Florist and/or Greenhouse                                                       1.50
Grocery Stores                                                                  See
                                                                                Supermarkets
Hardware                                                                        1.00
Horse stable and/or Riding Academy                                              1.00
Hospitals                                                                       1.00 per bed
                                                                                1.00 per
Insurance Office                                                                each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                0.50 per
Laundromat                                                                      washer (1.00
                                                                                minimum)
Lawn Mower Sales                                                                1.00
Lumber Yard                                                                     1.00
Meat Market and/or Food Locker
                                                                                2.00 plus
w/o Slaughtering                                                                1.00 per
                                                                                each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                3.00 plus
w/Slaughtering                                                                  1.00 per
                                                                                each 12
                                                                                employees
Mobile Home (on lot)                                                            1.00
                                                                                0.25 per bed
Motels or Hotels                                                                but not less
                                                                                than 1.00
                                                                                1.00 per
Office                                                                          each 12
                                                                                employees
Package Liquor Store                                                            1.00
Party Store                                                                     1.00
                                                                                1.00 per
Post Office                                                                     each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1.00 per
Public Utility (office only)                                                    each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                1.00 per
Public Utility w/maintenance                                                    each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                Same as
Public Institutions other than Hospitals                                        Convalescent
                                                                                Home
                                                                                1.00 per
Real Estate Office                                                              each 12
                                                                                employees
Rental Halls                                                                    1.00
Rest Home                                                                       1.00 plus
                                                                                0.25 per bed
Restaurant (Dinner and/or Drinks)                                               0.06 per
                                                                                seat
                                                                                0.04 per
Restaurant (Drive-in or Snack bar)                                              seat or
                                                                                parking
                                                                                space
                                                                                1.00 per
Retail or Wholesale Sales                                                       each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                0.13 per
Rooming House (No meals)                                                        person (1.00
                                                                                minimum)
Schools                                                                         1.00 per
                                                                                classroom
Service Station                                                                 See Gas
                                                                                Station
                                                                                See
Snack Bar                                                                       Restaurant
                                                                                (Drive-in)
                                                                                1.00 per
Store other than listed                                                         each 12
                                                                                employees
Supermarket:
                                                                                1.00 per
w/o meat and vegetable prep.                                                    each 12
                                                                                employees
                                                                                2.00 plus
w/meat and vegetable prep.                                                      1.00 per
                                                                                each 12
                                                                                employees
Swimming Pool                                                                   3.00
                                                                                0.000093 x
                                                                                weekly hours
Theater (inside NV/air conditioning)                                            of operation
                                                                                x number of
                                                                                seats
Theater (Drive-in)                                                              0.04 per car
                                                                                space
                                                                                0.35 per
Travel Trailer Park                                                             trailer
                                                                                space
                                                                                0.35 per
w/bath house transient                                                          trailer
                                                                                space
                                                                                Indirect
Trailer Parks (trailers w/baths)                                                connection
                                                                                charge
Township Hall or Library                                                        1.00
T.V. Repair and Appliance                                                       1.00
Veterinarian w/o Boarding                                                       1.00
w/Boarding                                                                      1.00
NOTES TO TABLE:
A unit factor of 1 is considered to be a single-family household residence.
Minimum charge is to be 1 unit.
* - Multiple-Family Connection Fees as 1 direct connection plus all additional units as
indirect connection units for each public sewer lead entering premises.
Monthly service charge to be based on unit factor except where it is mutually agreed to
charge on the basis of water used.
 
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
APPENDIX C: PROVISIONS APPLICABLE PRIMARILY TO MAJOR AND NON-DOMESTIC USERS
PART I: PURPOSE
§ A101 PURPOSE.
   For ease in reference, use, and amendment of
Chapter 51, provisions which are applied primarily to major and non-domestic
users are collected in this
Appendix C.
§ A102 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   This appendix is part of
Chapter 51 for all purposes, as if set forth in the main text of
Chapter 51.
   (B)   (1)   Major users and non-domestic users are fully subject to all
provisions of the main text and the other addenda to
Chapter 51.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, the provisions of this appendix apply to
all users of the system in accordance with their terms.
   (C)   Terms used in this appendix are defined in §
51.002.
PART II: SAMPLING AND ANALYSES
§ A201 WASTEWATER SAMPLING AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The prohibitions in §§
51.080 et seq. or as set forth in a special agreement (which may be a use
permit), shall apply at the point where wastewater and pollutants are
discharged or caused to be discharged into the system and required pretreatment
shall be effected before the point is reached.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of the
discharge shall be determined in accordance with the current edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the
American Public Health Association, most current American Society for Testing
Material (ASTM), and EPA approved procedures contained in 40 C.F.R., pt. 136,
or any validated methods from recognized authority in cases where the above
referenced procedures are not available or do not apply to the characteristic
involved, or another method accepted by the township or its designee.
§ A202 MAJOR USER SAMPLING AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise modified by a use permit, the following
shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to events beyond the control of the major user, major
users shall sample or cause to be sampled their discharge by composite flow
proportioned sampling.
         (b)   Samples must be obtained whenever the user is discharging and
for all days on which the user discharges.
         (c)   The flow proportioned composite sampling shall be programmed for
a minimum of 100 sampling events per day based on the average permitted flow
per day.
         (d)   Dilution is prohibited.
         (e)   The major user shall submit a written description of the
specific sampling method, sampling equipment, and sampling location to the
Supervisor and obtain the approval of the Supervisor or his or her designee.
         (f)   For users with a new source, this approval shall be obtained
prior to commencement of the discharge.
         (g)   Major users discharging as of the effective date of this section
shall obtain the approval within 90 days of the effective date.
      (2)   (a)   Major users may elect to not perform self-monitoring, in
which case the township or its designee may obtain samples using is composite
flow proportioned sampling or may contract with an independent firm for the
sampling.
         (b)   Samples must be obtained whenever the user is discharging and
for all days on which the user discharges.
         (c)   The flow proportioned composite sampler shall be programmed for
a minimum of 100 sampling events per day based on the average permitted flow
per day.
         (d)   Dilution is prohibited.
         (e)   The major user shall pay a sampling fee to the township to fully
reimburse the township for the sampling, including administrative and overhead
costs.
         (f)   If the township contracts with an independent firm for the
sampling, the major user shall fully reimburse the township for amounts paid by
the township to the firm.
      (3)   The major user shall provide equipment at its facility to properly
preserve and store up to 35 consecutive daily samples, whether or not that user
is performing the sampling.
      (4)   (a)   A sample shall be taken and preserved and stored at the major
user’s facility for every day on which a discharge occurs.
         (b)   At least 10 daily samples shall be analyzed each calendar month.
         (c)   Daily samples for alternate days on which a discharge occurs
shall be analyzed unless the township specifies to the major user, no later
than the fifth day after the end of the calendar month, which days 5 of the
samples must be analyzed for that calendar month.
         (d)   If the major user discharges for less than 10 days in a calendar
month, then the number of samples shall equal the number of days on which there
is a discharge.
      (5)   (a)   Samples shall be analyzed at the sole cost of the major user.
         (b)   If a major user does its own sampling or causes its samples to
be taken, then the user shall submit the samples to a laboratory (which may be
the major user’s own laboratory) approved by the township for analysis.
         (c)   If the major user utilizes its own laboratory, that major user
shall send a split sample to an independent laboratory at least quarterly as a
quality control check.
         (d)   If the major user does its own sampling and/or analysis, the
township may also take and have analyzed up to 4 daily composites or up to 4
grabs per day for up to 4 days at the sole cost of the major user in any
calendar month.
         (e)   If the township takes the samples, the township, in its sole
discretion, may analyze the samples in its own laboratory or contract with an
independent laboratory for the analysis.
      (6)   The date when a sample is taken, start time, stop time, sample
location, sampler programming information, and persons involved in the sampling
shall be recorded by the major user if the major user is self-monitoring.
      (7)   Flow measurements shall be taken to record the daily discharge
volume.
      (8)   (a)   All analytical results for the month shall be submitted to
the township by the fifteenth day of the following month if the major user does
self-monitoring.
         (b)   The township shall provide copies of analytical results for a
major user if the township performs the monitoring.
      (9)   (a)   The township shall be provided with splits of any sample
taken by a major user if the township requests a split sample.
         (b)   A major user shall be provided with splits of any sample taken
by the township if the major user requests a split sample within 7 days after
the sample is taken.
         (c)   Split samples shall be provided at the time the sample is taken,
if possible.
      (10)   (a)   A major user (who is performing self-monitoring) or the
township (if the major user is not performing self-monitoring) shall contract
with an independent company to maintain, repair, and calibrate the sampling and
flow measurement equipment and instruments used to monitor that major user.
         (b)   The maintenance, repair, and calibration shall be performed as
necessary so that monitoring data is accurate and representative, but in no
event less frequently than twice in a calendar year at reasonable intervals.
         (c)   The township, in any event, may inspect and test a major user’s
flow meters at reasonable times.
§ A203 REMOVAL OF SAMPLES AND DATA.
   (A)   The Supervisor or the Supervisor’s authorized representative shall
have the right to:
      (1)   Take and remove samples of wastewater and pollutants discharged
into the system; and
      (2)   Make copies of other data and materials concerning the same
inspected during an entry upon the user’s property.
   (B)   (1)   If the township or its designee requests that the user make
photocopies of documents, the township shall give the user at least 24 hours
notice of such a request.
      (2)   This notice requirement does not affect the rights of the township
to immediately copy data or other materials.
   (C)   Upon the written request of the user, split samples will be provided.
§ A204 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE SUBMISSION OF SAMPLES.
   The Supervisor may require any user to submit 1 or more representative
samples of the wastewater discharged or which it proposes to discharge into the
system.
§ A205 FAILURE TO PERMIT ACCESS OR REMOVAL OF SAMPLES AND OTHER DATA.
   In the event a user refuses to permit access to an authorized township
representative or permit the representative to obtain, take, and remove samples
and make copies of other data pursuant to §
A202, the township may:
   (A)   Order the termination of the discharge of wastewater to the system;
   (B)   Order the user to permit access within a time certain; and/or
   (C)   Issue a citation for violation of this regulation.
§ A206 NEW INSTALLATION OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notices.
      (1)   The user or its authorized agent shall notify the Supervisor in
writing within 5 days after the completion of a new installation of
pretreatment facilities of the time it intends to commence operation thereof.
      (2)   The user shall notify the Supervisor of:
         (a)   When start-up of the facilities will occur;
         (b)   The time; and
         (c)   The person who will conduct any tests to be performed.
      (3)   The pretreatment facilities shall not be placed in regular
operation until the tests have been conducted to establish that the discharges
will be in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Tests by users.
      (1)   A representative of the township shall be permitted to witness the
tests upon prior written request.
      (2)   The cost of the tests shall be paid by the user of the facilities.
PART III: REPORTS
§ A301 SURVEILLANCE REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The Supervisor or his or her designee, by written order, may
require any non-domestic user to submit periodic reports on forms provided by
the township which shall include information on the quality and quantity of
wastewater and pollutants discharged into the system.
      (2)   The report shall:
         (a)   Include the volume of wastewater and concentration of
pollutants; and
         (b)   Be related to pretreatment standards, as shall be required by
the Supervisor or his or her designee.
      (3)   The names of all person(s) responsible for operating and
maintaining any pretreatment equipment, pretreatment processes, or responsible
for wastewater management at the user’s facilities shall be listed in the
report with a brief description of each person’s duties.
      (4)   The Supervisor or his or her designee may also require additional
information from the users as to materials or substances which may cause
interference or pass through.
   (B)   Mandatory report. The Supervisor or his or her designee shall notify
forthwith each major user that it is required to file surveillance reports.
   (C)   Initial report. Each non-domestic user which has been notified of its
obligation to file surveillance reports shall file an initial report within 60
days from the date the notice is served upon the user.
   (D)   Monthly reports. Each non-domestic user so notified by the Supervisor
or his or her designee may be required to file monthly surveillance reports by
the fifteenth day of the following month for the preceding month.
   (E)   Quarterly reports. Each, non-domestic user required to submit
quarterly surveillance reports shall submit the same before January 31, April
30, July 31, and October 31 of each year for the quarter ending on the last day
of the preceding month.
   (F)   Semi-annual reports. Semi-annual surveillance reports shall be
submitted in June and December each year, for the preceding 6 calendar months,
commencing in 1991.
   (G)   Report on changed discharge. Each major user shall promptly notify the
Supervisor or his or her designee in advance of any substantial change in the
volume or character of pollutants in its discharge, including the hazardous
wastes for which the non-domestic user has submitted initial notification under
§ A304 hereof.
   (H)   Signature on reports. The surveillance reports referred to in this
section shall be signed as follows:
      (1)   (a)   By a responsible corporate officer, if the user submitting
the reports is a corporation.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (H)(1), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE OFFICER.
               a.   A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function;
               b.   Any other person who performs similar policy or decision
making functions for the corporation; or
               c.   The manager of 1 or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons, if authority to sign
documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures.
      (2)   By a general partner or proprietor if the user submitting the
reports is a partnership or sole proprietorship respectively; and
      (3)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual assigned in
divisions (H)(1) or (H)(2) above if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in divisions (H)(1) or (H)(2) above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager, or a position of
equivalent responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the Supervisor.
§ A302 NOTICE OF EXCEEDANCE OR MAJOR USER STATUS.
   (A)   All non-domestic users shall promptly notify the township, in advance
if possible, of a discharge which exceeds a limit in this chapter or which may
convert the user into a major user.
   (B)   Where a change in discharge may convert the user into a major user,
the user shall promptly submit an application for a permit to the township.
§ A303 EMERGENCY OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   All non-domestic users shall report to the Supervisor or his or her designee
as soon as possible any discharges which are known to exceed the limits
established by
Chapter 51, in a use permit, in any other special agreement, in a FCPS, or in
any other applicable law or regulation.
   (A)   Notice. The notice shall be given in advance, whenever possible, and
contain available information regarding the intended or accidental:
      (1)   Discharge;
      (2)   Volume;
      (3)   Duration;
      (4)   Constituents;
      (5)   Loading and concentrations; and
      (6)   Any other available information as may be necessary to determine
what impact the discharge may have on the system.
   (B)   Emergency contact point. The following emergency contact points shall
be notified in the event of an emergency, accidental, or slug discharge to the
collection system:
 
Township Supervisor Wastewater Treatment Plant
788-4113            788-4075
 
   (C)   Posting of permit and accidental discharge information.
      (1)   All non-domestic users shall post a clearly legible set of
instructions in the area where the user manages wastewater so that the report
and notice requirements of this section are made known and are available to the
user’s employees.
      (2)   The users shall also post the user’s permit along with these
instructions if the user holds a permit.
      (3)   The users shall instruct their employees on the reporting and
notice requirements of this section.
   (D)   Slug discharges.
      (1)   The Supervisor or his or her designee may, by written notice to a
user, require that the user prepare and implement a slug control plan.
      (2)   The plan shall be submitted to the Supervisor for approval as
specified in the written notice.
      (3)   The plan shall contain at least the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices including non-routine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored materials;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the supervisor of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under 40
C.F.R. § 403.5(b), with procedures for follow-up written notification within 5
days; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage area, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and
equipment for emergency response.
§ A304 NOTIFICATION REGARDING WASTES WHICH ARE OTHERWISE HAZARDOUS.
   (A)   (1)   Any non-domestic user that discharges to the system any
substance which, if disposed of other than by discharge to the system, would be
a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. § 261 under the rules promulgated under
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101-324.11153(“Michigan Rules”) shall notify the Supervisor,
the USEPA Region V waste management division director, and the chief of the
waste management division of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources of
the discharge.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by 2-19-1991, except that for discharges
for the substances which commence after 8-23-1990, the notice shall be given
within 180 days after the discharge first occurs.
      (3)   The notice shall be in writing and shall include the name of the
hazardous waste set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 261 or the Michigan Rules and type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other).
      (4)   If the non-domestic user discharges more than 100 kilograms of the
waste per calendar month to the system, the notice shall also contain the
following information to the extent the information is known and readily
available to the non-domestic user:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of the constituents
in the discharge during that calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass of constituents expected to be
discharged during the following 12 months.
   (B)   (1)   Notification under this section need be submitted once for each
hazardous waste discharged.
      (2)   Notification under this section is not required for pollutants
already reported under self-monitoring by non-domestic users under FCPS
reporting requirements.
      (3)   A non-domestic user is exempt from notification under this section
during a calendar month in which the non-domestic user discharges no more than
15 kilograms of hazardous wastes unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes
as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e).
      (4)   In the case of a new regulation which first regulates a substance
as a hazardous waste after 8-23-1990, notification under this section shall be
made within 90 days of the effective date of the regulation.
      (5)   In any notice submitted under this section, the non-domestic user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree the user has determined to be
economically practical.
§ A305 REPORTS BY THE SUPERVISOR RE: USERS AFFECTED BY FCPS.
   The Supervisor or his or her designee shall notify all non-domestic users
that might be subject to FCPS of the fact and of any applicable requirements
under §§ 204(b) and 405 of the Act and Subtitles C and D of the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
§ A306 REPORTS BY USERS RE: FCPS.
   (A)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a FCPS, or 180 days after
the final administrative decision made upon a category determination submission
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing non-domestic users
subject to the FCPS which currently discharge or are scheduled to discharge
into the public sewer or the system shall submit reports to the Supervisor
required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b), as amended.
   (B)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources and
non-domestic users that become subject to a FCPS subsequent to the promulgation
of an applicable FCPS shall submit the reports to the Supervisor requested by
40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b), as amended.
   (C)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
FCPS or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of the discharge
into the system, any non-domestic user subject to FCPS shall submit the reports
to the Supervisor required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d), as amended.
   (D)   In addition, any non-domestic user subject to a FCPS, after the
compliance date of the FCPS, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the public sewer or system, shall submit the
periodic reports to the Supervisor required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e), as
amended.
§ A307 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Any non-domestic user subject to the sampling, analysis, or reporting
requirements in
Chapter 51, including reports under 40 C.F.R. § 402.12, as amended, shall
maintain copies of the reports and records pertaining to those reports.
   (B)   The reports and records shall be retained by the user, and by the
township if the reports and records have been submitted to the township, for at
least 3 years.
   (C)   This period shall be extended during the course of any unresolved
litigation regarding the discharges of the user or the system pretreatment
program or when requested by the Supervisor, the state director, or USEPA.
   (D)   All non-domestic users who have records regarding their generation,
treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste or solid waste shall
maintain the records for the period and make them available to the township for
inspection and copying, subject to the provisions, contained in Section 12,
Confidential Information.
   (E)   The terms “hazardous waste” and “solid waste” shall have the same
definition as provided in M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101-324.11153, as amended and rules
promulgated thereunder.
PART IV: PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ A401 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A major user must have a use permit to discharge to the system.
   (B)   A major user shall apply for the permit within 30 days after receipt
of a blank application from the township or its designee.
   (C)   To establish whether a non-domestic user should be classified as a
major user, non-domestic users shall file a permit application with the
township which will consist of the following information, to the extent
required in the permit application.
      (1)   Name, address, and location of the user;
      (2)   Whether the user is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, or
some other entity (if so, what type of entity), and the name of the person(s)
responsible for discharges by the user;
      (3)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) number according to the
Standard Industrial Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (4)   Discharge constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, toxic pollutants as determined by bona fide chemical and biological
analyses. Sampling and analyses shall be performed in accordance with the
procedures established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
contained in 40 C.F.R. pt. 136, as amended;
      (5)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (6)   Average daily and instantaneous peak discharge flow rates in
gallons per day, including daily, monthly, and seasonable variations, if any.
All flows shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by
the Supervisor;
      (7)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes, sampling chambers,
and other relevant equipment by size, location, and elevation;
      (8)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or may be discharged to the system;
      (9)   Nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge limited
by
Chapter 51, together with a statement regarding whether or not compliance is
being achieved with
Chapter 51 on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to comply with
Chapter 51;
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production, where relevant to a FCPS;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials utilized (average and maximum per
day), including copies of material safety data sheets;
      (12)   A list of all environmental permits and a copy of each such permit
held by the user applicable to the site to which the user permit applies;
      (13)   All permit applications shall be signed by the person described in
§
A301(G)(1); and
      (14)   (a)   In the case of new sources, the applicant shall supply
estimated expected information to the extent actual data is not available.
         (b)   New sources who will be major users shall submit a complete
permit application at least 90 days prior to the commencement of its discharge
to the system.
§ A402 PERMIT ISSUANCE (MAJOR USERS).
   (A)   The Supervisor or his or her designee shall evaluate the application
and data furnished by the user and may require additional information from the
user to complete the application.
   (B)   Within 120 days after the submission of a complete application, the
Supervisor or his or her designee shall make a determination as to whether the
applicant is a major user.
   (C)   If not, the Supervisor or his or her designee shall so notify the
applicant.
   (D)   For a major user, the Supervisor or his or her designee shall issue or
deny a permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
§ A403 PERMIT TERM.
   (A)   A major user permit shall be issued for a term not to exceed 5 years.
   (B)   The Supervisor or his or her designee may issue the permit for a
shorter period.
   (C)   A permittee shall apply for reissuance of a permit by submitting a
complete application at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
   (D)   If a permittee complies with the preceding sentence, the existing
permit shall continue until final action is taken by the Supervisor on the
application for renewal.
§ A404 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Supervisor or his or her designee shall have the right to amend
any permit issued hereunder in order to:
      (1)   Assure compliance with the system with applicable laws,
regulations, and the system NPDES changes in discharges by the permit;
      (2)   Account for substantial user;
      (3)   Account for new information concerning the pollutants discharged by
the user;
      (4)   Reflect changes in federal or state laws and regulations or in
township ordinances;
      (5)   In the event there are operational changes at the system that, as
determined by the Supervisor, require revision of the permit; or
      (6)   Modify or terminate any special agreement provision contained in a
permit.
   (B)   The user shall be informed of any changes in the permit at least 30
days prior to the effective date of change, unless a shorter time is necessary
to meet applicable law or to protect human health or the environment.
§ A405 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   User permits shall specify no less than the following:
   (A)   Schedule of fees and charges;
   (B)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Requirements for installation and operation of discharge flow
monitors;
   (F)   Special conditions as the Supervisor may require under particular
circumstances for a given discharge, including sampling locations, frequency of
sampling, number, types, and standards for tests and reporting schedules;
   (G)   Compliance schedules;
   (H)   Requirements for submission of special technical reports or discharge
reports where different from those prescribed by
Chapter 51;
   (I)   Requirement for notification to the township of a discharge which
exceeds a limit in the permit, of changes in the discharge which result in the
discharge of a pollutant not described in the permit application, or in amounts
in excess of the maximum described in the permit application;
   (J)   Statement of duration (no more than 5 years);
   (K)   Statement regarding transferability;
   (L)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
discharge limitations, pretreatment requirements, and compliance schedules; and
   (M)   Other conditions, as determined by the Supervisor, necessary to assure
compliance with this chapter and other applicable laws.
§ A406 PERMIT FEES.
   Major users shall pay use permit fees to the township or its designee in
amounts to reimburse the township for its costs of processing the application,
in administering the permit once it is issued, and in processing renewal
applications.
§ A407 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   (A)   A user shall comply with all of the provisions of its permit.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of a permit is a violation of
Chapter 51, subject to the penalty, damage, surcharge, and other enforcement
provisions of
Chapter 51.
§ A408 LIMITATIONS OF PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Major user permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation at a specific location and are not assignable to another user or
transferable to any other location without prior written approval of the
Supervisor.
   (B)   The Supervisor or his or her designee shall approve a use permit
transfer and make the necessary minor modifications to the user permit to show
the transferee as the permittee, if the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The transferor has not violated any provision on the use permit or
of
Chapter 51 during the 6-month period preceding the date of the transfer;
      (2)   As of the date of the transfer, there are no unpaid charges or fees
due to the township or its designee from the transferor related to use of the
system;
      (3)   The application for the use permit filed by the transferor remains
the same with respect to the discharge, facilities, and activities of the
transferee, except as to the identity of the discharger; and
      (4)   The transferor provides written evidence to the Supervisor that a
copy of the use permit has been provided to the transferee.
PART V: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ A501 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The following confidentiality provisions shall apply:
   (A)   (1)   All information and data submitted to the township or its
designee relating to matters regulated in
Chapter 51 are presumed not to be confidential.
      (2)   Information submitted by a user shall be clearly marked on each
page as to the portion or portions considered by the user to be confidential
and accompanied by a written explanation of why the user considers the
information confidential.
      (3)   Mere marking of a page as “confidential” does not necessarily mean
that the information on that page must be kept confidential.
   (B)   (1)   Information furnished to the township or its designee on the
volume or characteristics of wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to
be discharged into the system shall be available to the public or other
governmental agency without restriction.
      (2)   When requested by a user furnishing information, the portions of
the information submitted which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to
Chapter 51, the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit,
state disposal system permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided,
however, all the information shall be available for use by the state, any state
agency or the township or its designee in judicial review or enforcement
proceedings involving the user furnishing the information.
      (3)   The township shall notify a user, who has requested and is entitled
to confidentiality for information furnished by the user to the township or its
designee, that the township or its designee has sent the confidential
information to another governmental agency that has made a written request for
it.
   (C)   (1)   Where a user has mass-based limits as allowed by certain
categorical pretreatment standards on a production basis, the production data
necessary to determine compliance must also be provided by the user to the
township or its designee, and be available to the public.
      (2)   Where application of the combined waste stream formula is necessary
to apply categorical pretreatment standards to a user, the flow measurements
and other data used in the calculation must be provided by the user to the
township or its designee, and be available to the public.
   (D)   Observations made by township inspectors are subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section as if they were in writing if the
user specifies in writing to the township the observations made by the township
inspector or his or her designee for which the user seeks confidentiality.
PART VI: PRETREATMENT
§ A601 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PRETREATMENT.
   In the event a user discharges or proposes to discharge wastewater or
pollutants to the system which are prohibited by
Chapter 51, the Supervisor or his or her designee may take any or all of the
following steps:
   (A)   Issue an order to effect pretreatment;
   (B)   Impose surcharges as specified in Part VIII of this appendix. The
obligations of a user under §
A802 (Applicability of Surcharge) and §
A803 (Determination of Surcharge) and any order concerning the same, shall be
subject to the terms of §
A804 (Criteria of Surcharge); and/or
   (C)   Pursue other remedies available by
Chapter 51.
§ A602 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Any user subject to an order to pretreat shall prepare a plan to
effect and achieve the pretreatment of its discharge so that the same shall
comply with its final order.
   (B)   The plan shall be submitted to the Supervisor within a reasonable
period specified in the final order.
   (C)   The plan shall be prepared in accordance with good engineering
practices and shall state whether construction is necessary as well as identify
the measures which may be implemented without construction.
   (D)   The plan shall contain a schedule of compliance for the completion of
each of the various phases necessary to implement full pretreatment, which
schedule must be first approved by an order of the Supervisor.
§ A603 PRETREATMENT COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Schedule of compliance. The schedule of compliance shall consist of 1
or more remedial measures, including enforceable timetables for a sequence of
actions or operations leading to compliance with a pretreatment standard, or
other limitation prohibition or standard.
   (B)   Steps or phases. The following steps or phases shall be included in
the schedule of compliance, where applicable and appropriate:
      (1)   Retention of a qualified engineer and/or consultant;
      (2)   Completion of any engineering or scientific investigations or
surveys deemed necessary;
      (3)   Preparation and submission of a preliminary plan to achieve
pretreatment;
      (4)   Preparation of plans and specifications, working drawings, or other
engineering or architectural documents which may be necessary to effect
pretreatment;
      (5)   Establishment of a date to let any contract necessary for any
construction;
      (6)   Establishment of completion dates for any construction necessary;
      (7)   Establishment of a date to accomplish full pretreatment pursuant to
the final order; and
      (8)   Establishment of separate timetables for phase or unit in the event
a phase or unit of construction or implementation may be effected independently
of another phase or unit.
   (C)   Amendment. The order shall be subject to amendment, change, or
revocation, provided notice of the action shall be served upon the user in the
same manner as in the original order and subject to the same procedure for
review and appeal.
§ A604 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS (FCPS).
   (A)   Inclusion in standard.
      (1)   If a FCPS is promulgated for a subcategory under which the user
believes itself to be included, the user or the Supervisor may request within
60 days after the promulgation date of the appropriate state or federal
official a written certification to the effect that the user does or does not
fall within that particular subcategory.
      (2)   The request shall be made and reviewed in accordance with the
procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a), as amended.
   (B)   Compliance date. A user to which a promulgated FCPS applies shall
achieve compliance with the standard within the time period for in 40 C.F.R. §
403.6(b), as amended.
PART VII: CONTAINMENT FACILITIES
§ A701 CONTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each non-domestic user that uses or stores liquid material on its
facilities shall provide a storage or use area on its facilities which is
capable of containing the liquid material so that, in the event of an accident,
liquid material cannot escape therefrom by gravity through private sewers or
otherwise into the system in an amount which would result in a prohibited
discharge.
   (B)   The Supervisor or its designee may order the non-domestic user to take
interim measures for emergency containment if circumstances so require.
PART VIII: SURCHARGES
§ A801 GENERALLY.
   Users exceeding:
   (A)   The limitations established by §§
51.055 et seq. where no order or permit has been issued to that user; or
   (B)   The limits contained in a pretreatment order or use permit applicable
to that user, shall be subject to the imposition of 1 or more surcharges as
provided by this section.
§ A802 APPLICABILITY OF SURCHARGE.
   Any user shall be liable for the imposition of a surcharge to reimburse the
system for any costs or expenses (direct or indirect) it may incur in handling
or treating the discharge (or which may be imposed upon the township) where the
exceedance of the limits causes or contributes to the costs or expenses.
§ A803 DETERMINATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The Supervisor shall calculate the amount of the surcharge to be assessed
against the user.
§ A804 CRITERIA OF SURCHARGE.
   The amount of surcharge may be based upon at least the following:
   (A)   The volume of the discharge;
   (B)   The length of time the discharge occurred;
   (C)   The composition of the discharge;
   (D)   The nature, extent, and degree of success the system may achieve in
minimizing or mitigating the effect of the discharge;
   (E)   The toxicity, degradability, treatability, and dispersal
characteristics of the discharges;
   (F)   Costs incurred by the township to treat the discharges, including
sludge handling and disposal;
   (G)   Fines and penalties imposed on the township. The surcharge may also
include the township’s costs of defense (including actual attorneys’ fees,
consultant fees, and sampling and analytical fees) of actions brought or
threatened against the township by the state or federal government or third
parties;
   (H)   Any damages to the system or damages imposed by the township by the
state or federal government or third parties; and
   (I)   Any other factors as the Supervisor deems appropriate under the
circumstances.
PART IX: POWERS OF THE SUPERVISOR
§ A901 POWERS OF THE SUPERVISOR.
   The Supervisor or his or her designee is hereby empowered to, either
directly or through others:
   (A)   Supervise the implementation of
Chapter 51;
   (B)   Institute actions against all users violating
Chapter 51 and, with the Township Attorney, institute necessary legal
proceedings to prosecute violations of
Chapter 51 and compel the prevention and abatement of violation of these
regulations or nuisances arising therefrom;
   (C)   Review the plans for pretreatment equipment, submitted by users;
   (D)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered pretreatment equipment to determine
compliance with provisions of
Chapter 51;
   (E)   Investigate complaints of violations of
Chapter 51 and make inspections and observations of discharges. Record the
investigations, complaints, inspections, and observations;
   (F)   Issue orders requiring compliance with
Chapter 51;
   (G)   Propose the imposition of civil penalties for violations of
Chapter 51;
   (H)   Determine surcharges to be levied pursuant to
Chapter 51;
   (I)   Recommend to the Township Attorney the institution of proceedings in a
court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with the provision of this
section or any determination or order which may be promulgated or issued
pursuant to these regulations; and
   (J)   Perform other actions necessary or advisable for the management and
operation of the system and the enforcement of this section and other
applicable laws and regulations.
PART X: PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT VIOLATORS
§ A1001 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City of Jackson shall publish, once per year in the largest daily
newspaper in the township or its designee, a public notice of users which, at
any time during the previous twelve months, were in significant violation of
federal, state, or township pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a user is in significant violation
if its violation(s) meet 1 or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violation of discharge limits, defined here as those in
which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a 6-month period
exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken during a 6-month period
equal or exceed the product of the daily average maximum limit or the average
limit times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BODF TSS 1 fats, oil and grease,
and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the system believes has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of system personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare, or to the environment, and has resulted in the
system’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
      (5)   Violation, by 90 days or more after the schedule date, of a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a permit or enforcement order, for
starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide required reports such as baseline monitoring
reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and
reports on compliance with compliance schedules within 30 days of the due date;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and/or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the system
considers to be significant.
PART XI: UPSET; LIABILITY; RESPONSIBILITY; AND THE LIKE
§ A1101 UPSET LIABILITY.
   (A)   In the event of an upset, the user shall not be liable for the fines,
imprisonment, or civil penalties provided for in this section, but the user is
still liable to the township for surcharges and damages.
   (B)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof by clear and convincing
evidence.
§ A1102 CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR A DEMONSTRATION OF UPSET.
   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
   (A)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the upset;
   (B)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
   (C)   The user has submitted the following information to the system within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days):
      (1)   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
      (2)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or, if
not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to continue;
and
      (3)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
§ A1103 USER RESPONSIBILITY IN CASE OF UPSET.
   (A)   The user shall control production or all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards and
other applicable limits upon reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment
facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of treatment
is provided.
   (B)   This requirement applies in the situation where, among other things,
the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or
fails.
§ A1104 NET/GROSS AND FCPS.
   (A)   A user may apply to the Supervisor for an adjustment in a FCPS to
reflect the presence of pollutants in the user’s intake water in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15, as amended.
   (B)   In the event such an adjustment is made, the adjusted FCPS shall
apply, provided the adjustment will not result in interference or pass through.
PART XII: BYPASS REGULATIONS
§ A1201 BYPASS NOTICE.
   (A)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the system, if possible, at least 10 days before the date of
the bypass.
   (B)   (1)   A user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable categorical pretreatment standards and other applicable
limits to the system within 24 hours from the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass.
      (2)   A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of the
time the user becomes aware of the bypass.
      (3)   The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
      (4)   The system may waive the written report on a case by case basis if
the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
§ A1202 PROHIBITION OF BYPASS.
   Bypass is prohibited, and the system may take enforcement action against a
user for a bypass, unless:
   (A)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage;
   (B)   (1)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
user of auxiliary treatment, facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime.
      (2)   The condition is not satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should
have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to
prevent a bypass which occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or
preventative maintenance.
   (C)   The user submitted notices as required under §
A1201 of this appendix.
§ A1203 SYSTEM APPROVED BYPASS.
   The system may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse
effects on the system determines that it will meet the 3 conditions listed in §
A1202 hereof.
(Ord. 12.00, passed 9-14-1999)
APPENDIX D: MONTHLY SEWER USAGE RATES
   (A)   The township hereby adopts a revised monthly residential and
commercial sewer usage rate over a 5-year period, to be billed quarterly
commencing as of 4-1-2006, as follows:
 
Monthly Sewer       Usage Rate
Present Rate – 200$9.00
4-1-2006            $10.77
4-1-2007            $12.67
4-1-2008            $14.68
4-1-2009            $16.82
4-1-2010            $19.10
 
   (B)   Monthly maintenance and replacement will remain at $4.25.
   (C)   The fees set forth in the above schedules shall be billed quarterly to
all customers. The “connection fees” for utilizing the township sewer system
shall remain the same.
(Res. passed 2-14-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SCHOOL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Adopted Traffic Codes
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Adoption of Uniform Traffic Code by reference
   
70.03   Adoption of provisions of Michigan Vehicle Code by reference
   
70.04   Adoption of other state laws by reference
   
70.05   Penalties for violations
   
70.06   Severability
   
70.07   Repeal of conflicting provisions and effective date
ADOPTED TRAFFIC CODES
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and the provisions of the Uniform Traffic Code and state
laws adopted by reference herein shall be collectively known and may be cited
as the “Summit Township Traffic Code Ordinance.”
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages as
promulgated by the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police pursuant
to the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq., and made effective 10-30-2002 is
hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   For the purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GOVERNMENTAL UNIT. The Township of Summit.
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 70.03 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Generally. The following provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923, are
hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Chapter I (Words and Phrases Defined): M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.82;
      (2)   Chapter II (Administration, Registration):
         (a)   M.C.L.A. § 257.225;
         (b)   M.C.L.A. § 257.228;
         (c)   M.C.L.A. § 257.243;
         (d)   M.C.L.A. § 257.244;
         (e)   M.C.L.A. § 257.255; and
         (f)   M.C.L.A. § 257.256.
      (3)   Chapter III (Operator’s and Chauffeur’s License):
         (a)   M.C.L.A. § 257.310e;
         (b)   M.C.L.A. § 257.311;
         (c)   M.C.L.A. § 257.312a;
         (d)   M.C.L.A. § 257.324;
         (e)   M.C.L.A. § 257.325;
         (f)   M.C.L.A. § 257.326; and
         (g)   M.C.L.A. § 257.328.
      (4)   Chapter VI (Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws):
         (a)   M.C.L.A. § 257.601;
         (b)   M.C.L.A. § 257.601b;
         (c)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.602 - 257.606;
         (d)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.611 - 257.616;
         (e)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.617a - 257.622;
         (f)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.624a - 257.624b;
         (g)   M.C.L.A. § 257.625 (except felony provisions);
         (h)   M.C.L.A. § 257.625a;
         (I)   M.C.L.A. § 257.625m;
         (j)   M.C.L.A. § 257.626;
         (k)   M.C.L.A. § 257.626b;
         (l)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.627 - 257.627b;
         (m)   M.C.L.A. § 257.629b;
         (n)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.631 - 257.632;
         (o)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.634 - 257.645;
         (p)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.647 - 257.655
         (q)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.656 - 257.662;
         (r)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.667 - 257.675d;
         (s)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.676 - 257.682b;
         (t)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.683 - 257.710e;
         (u)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.716 - 257.724.
      (5)   Chapter VIII (License Offenses):
         (a)   M.C.L.A. §§ 257.904 - 257.904a;
         (b)   M.C.L.A. § 257.904e; and
         (c)   M.C.L.A. § 257.905.
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 70.04 ADOPTION OF OTHER STATE LAWS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Generally. The following provisions of state law are hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Section 3102 of the Michigan Insurance Code of 1956, Public Act 218
of 1956, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 500.3102, pertaining to required
insurance;
      (2)   Subchapter 6 of Part 811 of the Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act , Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11501 et seq., pertaining to off-road vehicles;
      (3)   Part 821 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.,
pertaining to snowmobiles; and
      (4)   Section 703 of the Michigan Liquor Control Act, Public Act 58 of
1998, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 436.1703.
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 70.05 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code and the provisions of the
state laws herein above adopted by reference are hereby adopted as the
penalties for violations of the corresponding provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 70.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If a court of competent jurisdiction declares any provision of this
subchapter or the Uniform Traffic Code or a statutory provision adopted by
reference herein to be unenforceable, in whole or in part, the declaration
shall only affect the provision held to be unenforceable and shall not affect
any other part or provision.
   (B)   If a court of competent jurisdiction declares a penalty provision to
exceed the authority of the township, the penalty shall be construed as the
maximum penalty that is determined by the court to be within the authority of
the township to impose.
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 70.07 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days after publication as
required by law.
   (B)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with
the provisions of this subchapter are hereby repealed.
   (C)   Any violation charged before the effective date of this subchapter
under an ordinance provision repealed by the ordinance shall continue under the
ordinance provision then in effect.
(Ord. 14.02.01, passed 2-11-2003)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Establishment of Parking Violations Bureau
   
71.02   Prohibited parking
   
71.03   Prima facie responsibility for parking violation
   
71.04   Issuance of parking citations; fines and costs
   
71.05   Effective date
   
Appendix A: Schedule of Fines
§ 71.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Parking Violations Bureau to accept
fines and costs as prescribed by this chapter for the parking or standing of a
motor vehicle in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Parking Violations Bureau shall be located in the Summit Township
Hall at 2121 Ferguson Road, Jackson, Michigan, and shall be open during regular
business hours of the township.
(Ord. 20.02, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 71.02 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   A vehicle shall not be parked, except if necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk, or if there is not a crosswalk, then
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways;
      (7)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by an official sign or marking;
      (8)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to a fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance if properly marked by an official sign;
      (9)   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction, if the
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   On the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (11)   At a place where an official sign prohibits stopping or parking;
      (12)   In a place or in a manner which blocks or hampers the immediate
use of an immediate egress from a fire escape conspicuously marked as a fire
escape providing an emergency means of egress from a building;
      (13)   In a parking space clearly identified by an official sign as being
reserved for use by disabled persons which is on public property or private
property available for public use, unless the person is a disabled person as
described in M.C.L.A. § 257.19aof the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code or unless the
person is parking the vehicle for the benefit of a disabled person. A
certificate of identification issued under M.C.L.A. § 257.675(5) of the
Michigan Motor Vehicle Code to a disabled person shall be displayed on the
lower left corner of the front windshield or a special registration plate
issued under § 803(d) of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code to a disabled person
shall be displayed on the vehicle; and/or
      (14)   In violation of an official sign restricting the period of time
for or manner of parking.
   (B)   A person shall not move a vehicle not owned by the person into a
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance which makes the parking
unlawful.
(Ord. 20.02, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 PRIMA FACIE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PARKING VIOLATION.
   (A)   If a vehicle is stopped, standing, or parked in violation of this
chapter, the person in whose name the vehicle is registered in this state or
another state at the time of the violation is prima facie responsible for that
violation and subject to the fines and costs hereunder.
   (B)   The owner of the vehicle cited for a stopping, standing, or parking
violating pursuant to this chapter may assert as an affirmative defense that
the vehicle in question, at the time of the violation, was in the possession of
a person whom the owner had not knowingly permitted to operate the vehicle.
(Ord. 20.02, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 71.04 ISSUANCE OF PARKING CITATIONS; FINES AND COSTS.
    (A)   Parking violation notices may be issued by a police officer or the
other personnel duly authorized by the township to issue such a notice under
this chapter. Limited duty officers shall be appointed by the Township Board,
and a list of the officers shall be kept on file at the Parking Violations
Bureau and the 12th District Court for the County of Jackson.
   (B)   A parking violation notice may be served by attaching a copy of the
notice to the vehicle.
   (C)   The fines and costs for the parking violations set forth in this
chapter shall be as established by resolution of the Township Board from time
to time, and as set forth in
Appendix A of this chapter which is hereby declared to be a part of this
chapter.
   (D)   The fines and costs imposed by this chapter shall be in addition to
any other remedies available to the township and shall not prescribe the
township or its officers from issuing citations under the Uniform Traffic Code
adopted by the township.
(Ord. 20.02, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 71.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be published in the manner provided by law and shall take
effect and be in force from and after the earliest date allowed by law. This
chapter shall become effective upon publication.
(Ord. 20.02, passed 7-14-1987)
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF FINES
   (A)   The township hereby establishes the following charges for parking
violations within the township.
 
Parking                   If Paid at Township Office If Paid at Township Office
                          Within 72 Hours            After 72 Hours
Parking in Roadway        $35                        $50
No Stopping or Standing   $35                        $50
Parking for Prohibited    $35                        $50
Purpose
Parking within 15 Feet of $60                        $75
Hydrant
Disregard a Handicapped   $75                        $90
Sign
Miscellaneous Parking     $20                        $30
Violations
 
   (B)   Parking citations may be paid at the Township Hall located at 2121
Ferguson Road, Jackson, Michigan, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
daily except Saturday and Sunday.
(Ord. 20.02, passed 7-14-1987; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2001)
CHAPTER 72: SCHOOL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Jackson County Intermediate School District
   
72.01   Definitions and short title
   
72.02   Speed of motor vehicles on school property
   
72.03   Prohibition of parking and driving
   
72.04   Permitted parking areas
   
72.05   Fire lanes
   
72.06   Effective date
Jackson Community College District
   
72.20   Definitions and short title
   
72.21   Speed of motor vehicles on school property
   
72.22   Prohibition of parking and driving
   
72.23   Permitted parking areas
   
72.24   Fire lanes
   
72.25   Snowmobiles
   
72.26   Effective date
   
72.99   Penalty
JACKSON COUNTY INTERMEDIATE SCHOOL DISTRICT
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS AND SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “School Traffic Control
Ordinance.”
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF EDUCATION. The duly constituted Board of Education of Jackson
County Intermediate School District operating wholly or partially within the
territorial boundaries of the Township of Summit, Jackson County, Michigan.
      DESIGNATED AREA. An area where the Board of Education, by conspicuously
placed signs, designates a given area for a specific use.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, and any other body of
persons, whether incorporated or not.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 72.02 SPEED OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph on
any drive, parking lot, access road, or private street owned by a Board of
Education within the township.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PROHIBITION OF PARKING AND DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive or park any motor vehicle on any lands owned by
a Board of Education other than on lands clearly marked and designated by the
controlling board, as streets and/or parking lots.
   (B)   Areas which are designated as streets, and are surfaced to allow
driving, shall be available solely for driving purposes but not for parking.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PERMITTED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking shall be allowed without fee or charge at designated areas on
properties owned by a Board of Education.
   (B)   All parking shall be in accordance with the directional lines
designated in the parking areas.
   (C)   No vehicle other than vehicles owned by a Board of Education shall be
parked in designated areas anywhere on school premises during the hours of 12:
00 a.m. to 5:30 a.m., unless the owner or operator is actually engaged on the
school property during the period on school business or employment.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any designated area as a fire
lane located on property owned by a Board of Education.
   (B)   All fire lanes shall be designated as fire lanes on the site.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978; Am. Ord. passed 1-26-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days after publication thereof as
provided by law.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978)
JACKSON COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS AND SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “School Traffic Control
Ordinance.”
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The duly constituted Board of the Jackson Community
College District operating wholly or partially within the territorial
boundaries of the township, provided, however, that this subchapter shall be in
effect only in the Community College District or in those school districts
where the controlling board has specifically adopted a resolution requesting
application of this subchapter as provided in Public Act 175 of 1958, as
amended.
      DESIGNATED AREA. An area where the Board of Trustees by conspicuously
placed signs, designates a given area for a specific use.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, excluding, however,
SNOWMOBILES.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, and any other body of
persons, whether incorporated or not.
      SNOWMOBILES. Any motorized vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979)
§ 72.21 SPEED OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph on
any drive, parking lot, access road, or private street owned by the Jackson
Community College District within the township.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 PROHIBITION OF PARKING AND DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive or park any motor vehicle on any lands owned by
the Jackson Community College District other than on lands clearly marked and
designated by the controlling boards, as streets and parking lots.
   (B)   Areas which are designated as streets, and are surfaced to allow
driving, shall be available solely for driving purposes but not for parking.
   (C)   All vehicle traffic on sidewalks is prohibited except emergency/
maintenance vehicles.
   (D)   The ownership of illegally parked or placed vehicles will be verified
with the Secretary of State creating in evidence a presumption that the
registered owner of the vehicle was the person in violation.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23 PERMITTED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking shall be allowed without fee or charge at designated areas on
properties owned by the Jackson Community College District.
   (B)   All the parking shall be in accordance with the directional lines
designated in the parking areas.
   (C)   No vehicle, other than vehicles owned by the Community College
District, shall be parked in designated areas anywhere on college or school
premises, during the period of 12:00 a.m. to 5:30 a.m. unless the owner or
operator is actually engaged in college or school business or employment.
   (D)   Any vehicle left unattended for 24 hours or longer, other than those
engaged in college or school business, shall be considered abandoned.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle on or in any designated area used
as a fire lane located on property owned by the Jackson Community College
District.
   (B)   All the fire lanes shall be designated as fire lanes on the site.
   (C)   Fire lanes may be used, however, for short-term deliveries by college
suppliers, by authorized snow and refuse removal trucks, and by authorized fire
or emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 SNOWMOBILES.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any properties owned by the Jackson
Community College District.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days after publication thereof as
provided by law.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
72.01 et seq. shall be guilty of a civil infraction punishable by a fine of not
more than $100.
(Ord. 20, passed 9-12-1978; Am. Ord. passed 1-26-1982)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
72.20 et seq. shall be guilty of a civil infraction and/or a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $100 or by incarceration in the County
Jail for not more than 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 20.01, passed 11-27-1979)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND ROADS
      
91.   NOISES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   JUNK AND GARBAGE; ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   BURNING
      
95.   ALARMS AND MISUSE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
96.   VEGETATION
      
97.   FIREWORKS
      
98.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND ROADS
Section
Private Roads
   
90.01   Permits, agreements, and registration
   
90.02   Construction and maintenance requirements
   
90.03   Signs
   
90.04   Certificate of occupancy
   
90.05   Effective date
   
90.99   Penalty
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 90.01 PERMITS, AGREEMENTS, AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A commercial driveway permit must be obtained from the Jackson County
Road Commission for all private streets or roads accessing public streets or
roads.
   (B)   All necessary easements and flowage agreements for drainage, as
required by the Jackson County Road Commission, must be:
      (1)   Secured from the affected parties; and
      (2)   Recorded with the Jackson County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The road construction must meet the standards of the Jackson County
Road Commission, except that the curb, gutter, and blacktop surface standards
may be waived or modified by the Township Board and/or the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The developer or seller must pave the private street or road entrance
from the existing blacktop to the right-of-way line, which is usually 33 feet
from the centerline of the road.
   (C)   The right-of-way line must be a minimum of 66 feet in width.
   (D)   (1)   A height clearance from trees, brush, and other objects or
obstructions must be at a minimum of 16 feet on the street/roadway surface.
      (2)   This height clearance is to be maintained at all times, through a
regular clearing of obstructions by the property owner, the owner’s agent, or
property occupant.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SIGNS.
   The developer or seller must pay for any signing required by the Jackson
County Road Commission, which may include, but not be limited to, the
installation and cost of materials for:
   (A)   Stop signs;
   (B)   Street names;
   (C)   Designation of a private street/road; and
   (D)   The like.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 90.04 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy will be issued by the Chief Building Official
unless or until documentation of the above requirements as certified by the
developer or seller is presented in writing.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 90.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 30 days after its publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Township of Summit.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
90.01 et seq. shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined
by law and shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 and not more
than $500 as determined by the court. In addition, such person shall be deemed
to be responsible for costs, which may include all expenses to which the
township has been put as a result of the municipal civil infraction. In no
case, however, shall costs of less than $10, nor more than $500, be ordered. A
person found to be in violation shall also be subject to such additional
sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law. The term
PERSON shall be deemed to include partnerships, limited liability companies,
corporations, and other legal entities.
   (B)   In addition, any violation of §§
90.01 et seq. shall be deemed a nuisance per se, permitting the Township Board,
its officers, agents, or any private citizen to take the action in any court of
competent jurisdiction to cause the abatement of the nuisance, including
injunctive relief.
(Ord. 117, passed 5-14-2002; Am. Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 91: NOISES
Section
   
91.01   Unnecessary and excessive noises prohibited
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 UNNECESSARY AND EXCESSIVE NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued or to permit on his or her premises any excessively loud
noise of such a nature so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and tranquility of
the residents of the township.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are in violation of this section,
but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive.
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like.
         (a)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle on any street or public place of the township
except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device
of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device
for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles as
defined by the Motor Vehicle Code for the State of Michigan.
      (2)   Radios, televisions, phonographs, and the like.
         (a)   The using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or
operated any radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument,
phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound in the manner as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and
tranquility of the inhabitants of the township, or at any time with louder
volume than is reasonably necessary for convenient hearing for the person or
persons who are in the room, vehicle, or place where the machine or device is
operated.
         (b)   The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine,
or device in the manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or
more from the building, structure, place, premises, or vehicle in which it is
located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Animals, birds, and the like. The keeping of any animal, bird, or
fowl which causes frequent or long continued noise which is plainly audible at
a distance of 100 feet or more from the place, premises, building, or structure
which the animal, bird, or fowl is kept, maintained, or located.
      (4)   Exhausts.
         (a)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, internal combustion engine which causes loud, prolonged noise shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   All engines shall be equipped with a proper muffler in good
working order, and in continuous working order.
         (c)   No person shall remove, destroy, or damage any or all of the
baffles contained in the muffler.
         (d)   No person shall install a device to bypass the muffler on any
internal combustion engine.
         (e)   Any noise, excluding noise arising from a motor vehicle driven
on a highway, which exceeds 86 DBA shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
         (f)   For the purpose of this division (B)(4), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            DBA. Decibels measured on a-weighted network of a sound level
meter, as specified in American national standards institute standard S 1.4-
1971.
            DECIBEL. A unit of sound level on a logarithmic scale measured
relative to the threshold of audible sound by the human ear, in compliance with
American national standards institute standard S 1.1-1960.
      (5)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing on a public street or sidewalk at any time or place,
including private property, so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of any persons in any place of business, or any dwelling, hotel, or
other type of residence, or of any persons in the immediate vicinity.
      (6)   Whistles, sirens, and the like. Blowing any whistle or siren,
except as a warning of danger or upon request and authority of proper township
authorities.
      (7)   Tires. Intentionally squealing the tires of any motor vehicle.
      (8)   Loading, unloading, and the like. Creating loud and excessive
noises in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers.
      (9)   Drums, loudspeakers, and the like. Creating noise with any drum,
loudspeaker, or other instrument or device to attract attention to any
performance, show, or sale or display of merchandise.
(Ord. 23, passed 5-13-1986; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2001) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
91.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$500 and the costs of prosecution thereof, by imprisonment in the County Jail
for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both.
   (B)   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of §
91.01.
(Ord. 23, passed 5-13-1986)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Statement of purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Prohibitions
   
92.04   Parental responsibility
   
92.05   Savings clause
   
92.06   Repeal of conflicting provisions
   
92.07   Effective date
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the persons and property by controlling the keeping and treatment of
animals within the township.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Shall include birds, fish, mammals, and reptiles.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, cattle, swine, sheep, goats, and fur-bearing animals, of
either gender, being raised in captivity.
   OWNER and PERSONS OWNING PREMISES. Both the owner of title of record and
those occupying or in possession of property or premises. The term OWNER when
applied to the proprietorship of any animal means every person having a right
of property in the animal, an authorized agent of the animal, and every person
who keeps or harbors the animal or has it in his or her care, custody or
control, and every person who permits the animal to remain on or abut the
premises occupied by himself or herself.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   A person will be in violation of this chapter if he or she:
   (A)   Owns any animal and who permits the animal to run at large, except,
however, that a dog engaged in hunting need not be leashed when under the
reasonable control of its owner;
   (B)   Owns any dog of any age, licensed or unlicensed, wearing a collar or
not wearing a collar, except a leader dog for a handicapped person accompanied
by its owner, and who permits the dog to be within the confines of any public
park when the park, by appropriate designation at its entrance, prohibits dogs;
   (C)   Owns any dog at any time, licensed or unlicensed, which destroys
property, real or personal, or trespasses in a damaging way on property of
persons other than the owner;
   (D)   Owns any dog, cat, livestock, poultry, or other animal at any time,
licensed or unlicensed, which attacks or bites a person;
   (E)   Owns any dog which shows vicious habits, including, but not limited
to, charging, snarling, growling, and the like, or which molests passers-by
when the persons are lawfully on a public highway, right-of-way, or adjacent
property;
   (F)   Owns, keeps, houses, tethers, or otherwise possesses or maintains any
animal in such a way or manner or in the location whereby noises emanating from
the animal, including, but not limited to, loud and frequent barking, howling,
or yelping, shall cause a disturbance or otherwise disrupt the peace, quiet,
and tranquility of persons within the limits of the township, is a nuisance in
the neighborhood in which the animal is kept, possessed or harbored. This
section shall not apply to kennels lawfully operating within the township,
except upon the evidence of mistreatment of animals situated therein;
   (G)   Owns any livestock or poultry which is kept, possesses, or harbored
within the boundaries of any nonagricultural area within the township;
   (H)   Owns any dog or other animal which is not confined upon the premises
of the owner between sunset and sunrise of the following day, except when the
dog or other animal is otherwise under the reasonable control of the owner;
   (I)   Removes a collar or tag from any dog or any other animal without the
permission of its owner, or decoys or entices any dog or other animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner, or seizes, molests, or teases any
dog or other animal held or led by any person or while on the property of its
owner;
   (J)   Intentionally and maliciously kills, injures, or maims any animal,
livestock, or poultry owned by another person. In no event shall the provisions
of this division (J) exonerate a person from compliance with the criminal laws
of this state, including, by way of example, the safe discharge of firearms;
   (K)   Owns, keeps, houses, or otherwise possesses wild or undomesticated
animals in residential districts. The animals to include, but not limited to:
opossum, raccoon, bears, deer, moose, elk, snakes, wolves, wild cats such as
lions, tigers, and leopards, and other wild game. However, this does not apply
to those establishments exempted by Chapter 150; and/or
   (L)   Permanently or temporarily keeps more than 2 dogs 6 months or older on
premises located within a residential district, unless exempted by
Chapter 150.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   For additional prohibitions concerning animals, see §
150.153
§ 92.04 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian, or other person having charge, guardianship, custody,
or control of any minor under the age of 17 years shall encourage or knowingly
allow the minor to violate a provision of this chapter. Proof that the minor
was convicted of violating this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the
minor’s parent or guardian allowed or encouraged the minor to violate the
section.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All proceedings pending and all rights and liabilities existing, or incurred
at the time this chapter takes effect are saved and may be consummated
according to the law in effect when they are commenced. This chapter shall not
be construed to affect any prosecution pending or initiated before the
effective date of this chapter, or initiated after the effective date of this
chapter for an offense committed before that effective date.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 92.06 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Any ordinance or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with any of
the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 92.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be published in the manner provided by law and shall take
effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. Penalties may be imposed up to 90 days incarceration
in the County Jail of Jackson County and/or fines up to $500 plus the costs of
prosecution.
   (B)   In addition, any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance
per se, permitting the Township Board, its officers, agents, or any private
citizen to take the action in any court of competent jurisdiction to cause the
abatement of the nuisance, including injunctive relief.
(Ord. 29.04, passed 11-13-2001)
CHAPTER 93: JUNK AND GARBAGE; ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Junk and Garbage
   
93.01   Legislative findings
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful acts
   
93.04   Exceptions
   
93.05   Prima facie proof
   
93.06   Declaration of nuisance
   
93.07   Effective date
Abandoned Vehicles
   
93.20   Purpose
   
93.21   Generally
   
93.22   Public nuisance
   
93.23   Definitions
   
93.24   Complaint
   
93.25   Court proceedings
   
93.26   Remedies to be cumulative
   
93.27   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance elimination, see §
155.01 et seq.
JUNK AND GARBAGE
§ 93.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   It is hereby determined that there exists on privately-owned parcels of land
within the township accumulations of junk and/or garbage and that the
accumulation of junk and/or garbage constitutes a hazard to the public health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the township for the reasons that they
provide a habitat conductive to breeding and nesting of rats, mice, and other
vermin and also that they contain objects with sharp edges and other hazards
which could injure small children who would be attracted to play thereon
without appreciating the danger thereof, and that the regulations contained in
this subchapter are the minimum regulations required to eliminate the foregoing
undesirable condition and protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any accumulation of trash, refuse, or litter, specifically
including, but not limited to, containers once containing edible, drinkable or
usable materials, as well as dead animals (or parts thereof) and discarded
edible or drinkable items.
   JUNK. Any unused or unusable building materials, furniture, machinery,
appliances, or parts thereof, including unlicensed, inoperable, dismantled, or
partially dismantled motor vehicles which, because of mechanical condition or
missing parts, cannot be driven. Unlicensed vehicle shall mean a vehicle
without a current license plate or currently licensed by the State of Michigan.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-13-1997; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-1997)
   RUBBISH. Includes, but is not limited to, waste paper, metallic ware,
metallic cans, metallic cuttings, boxes, glass, straw, shavings, barrels,
lumber, paper cartons, brush, plastic ware, plastic cans, plastic, plastic
products, food containers, plastic cuttings, pallets, and hedge trimmings.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Storing of junk. No owner, occupant, or possessor of land within the
township shall keep or permit to be kept at any time on a parcel any junk
unless the same is within a completely enclosed building.
   (B)   Storing of rubbish and garbage. No owner, occupant, or possessor of
land in the township shall keep or permit to be kept at any time on any parcel
any rubbish or garbage unless the same is kept within a closely covered can or
other metal, plastic, or rubber container designed for same and sufficient to
prevent entry by rats, mice, and other vermin. Storage of garbage in plastic or
garbage bags for more than 7 consecutive days in any month or for any time
period greater than 7 days is specifically prohibited.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to inventory on premises occupied by a
merchant licensed under M.C.L.A. § 205.53 and conducting a lawful business or
to the property of patrons of a lawful motor vehicle repair facility,
furniture, or appliance repair facility, or gasoline service station while left
on the premises of either for purposes of service or repair, nor does this
subchapter apply to junk yards which can be regulated under Public Act 12 of
1929.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not prohibit composting or compost piles
maintained from materials generated on the site of the compost pile.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 93.05 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   In any litigation arising under this subchapter, testimony that any
furniture, machinery, appliance, or parts thereof have been observed in the
same place on at least 2 separate dates at least 7 days apart within any
calendar month shall constitute prima facie proof that the machinery,
appliance, or parts thereof are inoperable, unused, or unusable as defined in §
93.02. Likewise, in any litigation arising under this subchapter, testimony
that any inoperable, unlicensed, dismantled, or partially dismantled motor
vehicle, or parts thereof have been observed in the same place for a period of
7 consecutive days shall constitute prima facie proof that the motor vehicle or
parts thereof are inoperable, unused, or unusable as defined in §
93.02.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-13-1997; Am. Ord. passed 9-9-
1997)
§ 93.06 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any violation of any provision of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and the township may institute appropriate court proceeding to
enjoin, abate, and remove any such nuisance.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 93.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be enforced from and after the
earliest date allowed by law. This subchapter shall be published in the manner
provided by law.
(Ord. 110.01, passed 6-22-1993)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 93.20 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined to be necessary for the public health, safety, and
welfare of the township, County of Jackson, State of Michigan, to regulate and
control the storage of any dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable
motor vehicles or parts thereof.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966)
§ 93.21 GENERALLY.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall park or store any dismantled,
partially dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof on any
premises in the township, unless the premises shall be duly licensed under the
provisions of the Summit Township Junk Yard Ordinance, for a period of more
than 7 days continuously, and no person, firm, or corporation shall permit any
dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof
to remain on any premises in the township, unless the premises are duly
licensed under the provisions of the Summit Township Junk Yard Ordinance, for a
period of more than 30 days consecutively. This section shall not apply to
dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicles or parts thereof
stored in a closed building.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The presence of any dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor
vehicle or parts thereof outdoors on any premises in the township not duly
licensed under the Summit Township Junk Yard Ordinance is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966)
§ 93.23 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISMANTLED AND PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles from
which some part or parts which are ordinarily a component of the motor vehicle
has been removed or is missing.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles which, by reason of
dismantling, disrepair, or other cause, are incapable of being propelled under
their own power.
      MOTOR VEHICLES. Any wheeled vehicles which are self-propelled or intended
to be self-propelled.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle which does not bear a currently effective license
issued by the State of Michigan shall be considered an inoperable motor
vehicle, except that recreational vehicles, seasonal vehicles, or vehicles
owned by a person in the military service need not bear a current Michigan
license. Providing however, that recreational vehicles and seasonal vehicles
not bearing a currently effective license may not be parked or stored on the
premises for a period in excess of 6 months during any 1 year except in an
enclosed structure.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966; Am. Ord. passed 1-22-1990)
§ 93.24 COMPLAINT.
   The Township Board, by its duly constituted officers, the Prosecuting
Attorney of Jackson County, or the duly appointed attorney for the township may
cause complaint to be made for the violation of the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966)
§ 93.25 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   In addition, the Township Board, by its duly constituted officers, or any
resident of the township may institute appropriate court proceedings to enjoin,
abate, and remove any motor vehicle that violates the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966)
§ 93.26 REMEDIES TO BE CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies and penalties provided herein are cumulative and in addition to
other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966)
§ 93.27 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be immediately
necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare and
are hereby ordered to take immediate effect and be enforced from and after the
earliest date allowed by law, and this subchapter is hereby ordered to be
published in the manner allowed by law.
(Ord. 110, passed 2-22-1966)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction as defined by law and shall be subject to a civil
fine of not less than $50 and not more than $500 as determined by the court. In
addition, such person shall be deemed to be responsible for costs, which may
include all expenses to which the township has been put as a result of the
municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than $10,
nor more than $500, be ordered. A person found to be in violation shall also be
subject to such additional sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized
under Michigan law. The term PERSON shall be deemed to include partnerships,
limited liability companies, corporations, and other legal entities.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 94: BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Applicability
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Open burning prohibited
   
94.05   Exceptions
   
94.06   Agricultural burning
   
94.07   Prescribed burning
   
94.08   Outdoor boilers, stoves
   
94.09   Patio units
   
94.10   Fire suppression training
   
94.11   Permits
   
94.12   Liability
   
94.13   Right of entry; inspections
   
94.14   Enforcement
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to promote the public health, safety and welfare
and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the township by regulating the air pollution and fire hazards
of open burning and outdoor burning.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all outdoor burning and open burning within
the township.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to grilling, cooking, or smoking of food
using charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in cooking, grilling, or smoking
appliances.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of generating
heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a building
used for human or animal habitation.
   (D)   This chapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene, natural
gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating, construction or
maintenance activities.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking but not
including a fire intended for disposal of waste wood or refuse.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Building waste materials, including but
not limited to waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted wood,
wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling, repair, and demolition operations on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Summit Township Fire Department or other person
designated by the Fire Chief.
   MUNICIPALITY. A county, township, city, or village.
   NUISANCE. The burning of any material of any kind exuding smoke which may
endanger the public, or safety or health of the public, or to disturb the
comfort or repose of any person residing in the vicinity of the open burning,
or which causes excessive or noxious odors, or when such open burning emits
sparks, embers, or smoke upon adjacent or nearby premises.
   OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired boiler or
patio wood burning unit.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILER. A wood-fired boiler, stove or furnace that is not
located within a building intended for habitation by humans or domestic
animals.
   PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A chimney, patio warmer, or other portable wood-
burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or heating.
   REFUSE. Any waste material including but not limited to leaves, grass.
garbage and other organic refuse, construction and demolition waste materials,
automobiles or parts thereof, flammable, toxic or explosive materials,
electrical wiring, rubber products and plastic products.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.04 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Open burning and outdoor burning are prohibited in the township unless
the burning is specifically permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   Open burning of refuse from all residential, office, commercial and
industrial is prohibited.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Open burning of trees, stumps, leaves and grass clippings are
prohibited.
   (B)   Open burning of logs 6 inches in diameter or less and brush is allowed
only in accordance with all of the following provisions:
      (1)   A permit issued in accordance with §
94.11 must be obtained prior to open burning under this section.
      (2)   Open burning of logs, and brush must be conducted at least 1,400
feet from an
incorporated city or village limit.
      (3)   Except for barbecue, gas, and charcoal grills, no open burning
shall be undertaken during periods when the Governor of Michigan has issued a
burning ban applicable to the area.
      (4)   All allowed open burning shall be conducted in a safe, nuisance-
free manner, when wind and weather conditions minimize adverse effects and do
not create a health hazard or a visibility hazard on roadways, railroads or
airfields. Open burning shall be conducted in conformance with all Summit
Township and state fire protection regulations.
      (5)   Open burning shall be conducted only on the property on which the
materials were generated.
      (6)   Outdoor campfires and small bonfires for cooking, ceremonies, or
recreation are allowed provided they do not cause a nuisance.
      (7)   Open burning including camp fires under this section shall only be
conducted at a location at least 25 feet from the nearest building which is not
on the same property and at a minimum 15 feet of any building or property line
which is on the same property.
      (8)   Except for campfires, open burning shall only be conducted between
the hours of sunrise and sunset. Camp fires may be authorized between sunset
and 12:00 a.m. midnight by contacting the Fire Department
      (9)   Open burning shall be constantly attended and supervised by a
competent person of at least 18 years of age until the fire is extinguished and
is cold. The person shall have readily available for use such fire
extinguishing equipment as may be necessary for the total control of the fire.
      (10)   No materials may be burned upon any street, curb, gutter or
sidewalk or on the ice of a lake, pond, stream or waterbody.
      (11)   Except for barbecue, gas, and charcoal grills, no burning shall be
undertaken within 25 feet from any combustible material, combustible wall or
partition, exterior window opening, exit access or exit unless authorized by
the Fire Chief.
      (12)   No open burning may be conducted on days when the Department of
Environmental Quality has declared an air quality action day applicable to the
township.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.06 AGRICULTURAL BURNING.
   Open burning of weeds, brush, and crop stubble and for disease and pest
control on agricultural lands is allowed if conducted in accordance with other
applicable provisions of this chapter and other accepted agricultural and
wildlife management practices.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.07 PRESCRIBED BURNING.
   (A)   PRESCRIBED BURN means the burning, in compliance with a prescription
and to meet planned fire or land management objectives, of a continuous cover
of fuels. A PRESCRIPTION means a written plan establishing the criteria
necessary for starting, controlling, and extinguishing a burn.
   (B)   Fires set for forest, prairie, and wildlife habitat management are
allowed only if conducted in accordance with Part 515 of the Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.51501 et seq.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.08 OUTDOOR BOILERS, STOVES.
   An outdoor wood-fired boiler may be installed and used in the township only
in accordance with all of the following provisions:
      (1)   The outdoor wood-fired boiler as defined in this ordinance shall be
installed and used only on a lot with a minimum of twenty thousand square feet
in area, a minimum of one hundred twenty feet in width and used for residential
purposes. This does not apply to accessory buildings located in the
Agricultural District having lot greater than 3 acres in size.
      (2)   The outdoor wood-fired boiler shall not be used to burn refuse and
shall only burn clean wood in the boiler. Other fuel sources as recommended by
the manufacture of an outsider boiler and not specifically prohibited by this
ordinance may be permitted.
      (3)   The outdoor wood-fired boiler shall be located at least 100 feet
from the nearest building which is not on the same property as the outdoor
wood-fired boiler.
      (4)   The outdoor wood-fired boiler shall have an attached permanent
chimney that extends at least as high above the ground surface as the height of
the roofs of all such residences if there is a residence within 200 feet of the
wood-fired furnace not on the same property. The Fire Chief and Building
Inspector or their designee(s) may approve a lesser height on a case-by-case
basis if necessary to comply with manufacturer's recommendations and if the
smoke from the lower chimney height does not create a nuisance for neighbors.
This approval may be revoked by the Fire Chief and Building Inspector or their
designee(s) upon compelling evidence.
      (5)   The outdoor wood-fired boiler shall be UL listed and have attached
an approved U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) label. The label shall
indicate the model being installed including the test results from an
independent accredited laboratory showing the unit meets the EPA 2007 (Phase 1)
voluntary testing program for emissions levels for outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heaters (OWHH).
      (6)   The owner or occupant of the property shall obtain all required
permits for each outdoor wood-fired boiler prior to installation and any
required inspections shall be completed and approved prior to use of the
outdoor wood- fired boiler.
      (7)   The lawful use of a nonconforming outdoor wood-fired boiler
existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of this chapter may be
continued although such boiler does not conform to the provisions of this
section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a nonconforming outdoor wood-fired
furnace shall not be used or operated in such a manner so as to constitute
public nuisance or so as to cause a condition which is hazardous to human
health and is prohibited by any applicable federal, state or local statutes,
ordinances, or regulations.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.09 PATIO UNITS.
   A patio wood-burning unit may be installed and used in the township only in
accordance with all of the following provisions:
      (1)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not be used to burn refuse.
      (2)   The patio wood-burning unit shall burn only clean wood.
      (3)   The patio wood-burning unit shall be located at least 25 feet from
the nearest structure which is not on the same property as the patio wood-
burning unit.
      (4)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not cause a nuisance to
neighbors.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.10 FIRE SUPPRESSION TRAINING.
   Notwithstanding §
94.04 of this chapter, structures and other materials may be burned for fire
prevention training only in accordance with all of the following provisions:
   (A)   The burn must be exclusively for fire prevention training. The burning
shall not be used as a means to dispose of waste material including tires and
other hazardous materials.
   (B)   Any standing structure that will be used in a fire suppression
training must be inspected by a licensed asbestos inspector if necessary. A
notification of this inspection must be submitted to the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, Air Quality Division at least 10 business days prior to
burning a standing structure. The notification must be submitted using Form EQP
5661 "Notification of Intent to Renovate/Demolish."
   (C)   All asbestos must be removed prior to conducting the fire suppression
training. If the structure is a residential dwelling, the owner may remove the
asbestos or have it removed by a licensed abatement contractor. If it is a
commercial building, all asbestos must be removed by a licensed abatement
contractor.
   (D)   All ash shall be disposed of in an approved landfill or at an
alternate location approved by the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality.
   (E)   Asphalt shingles and asphalt or plastic siding shall be removed prior
to the practice burn unless the Fire Chief determines that they are necessary
for the fire practice.
   (F)   At least 5 calendar days before a planned practice burn, residents
within 500 feet of the proposed burn shall be notified.
   (G   All fire suppression training should conform to the guidelines
established by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard on Live
Fire Training Evolutions (NFPA 1403).
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.11 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall start or maintain any outdoor burning, open burning or
camp fire covered under this chapter without a burning permit issued by the
Summit Township Fire Department.
   (B)   The Summit Township Fire Department shall have specific authority to
revoke permits and it shall be a violation of this chapter to refuse or fail to
extinguish a fire when a permit has been revoked, or the property owner is
requested to extinguish such fire by a Summit Township Fire Department
employee.
   (C)   When weather conditions warrant, the Fire Chief or designee may
temporarily suspend issuing burning permits and may temporarily suspend
previously issued burning permits for open burning.
   (D)   A burning permit issued under this section shall require compliance
with all applicable provisions of this chapter and any additional special
restrictions deemed necessary to protect public health and safety.
   (E)   Any violation of the conditions of a burning permit shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter. Any violation of this chapter or the burning permit
shall void the permit.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.12 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining any outdoor fire which necessitates
control and/or extinguishment by the Summit Township Fire Department, or any
other Fire Department shall be responsible for all fire suppression costs and
any other liability resulting from damage caused by the fire.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.13 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief or any authorized officer, agent, employee or representative
of the township who presents credentials may inspect any property for the
purpose of ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by any County Deputy Sheriff or Police Officer,
and/or any Summit Township employee or person who is duly sworn to act by the
Township Clerk.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails
to comply with a duly authorized order issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined by
Michigan Statute which shall be punishable by civil fine determined in
accordance with the Summit Township Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance.
   (B)   The violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses, direct
and indirect, which the township has incurred in connection with the municipal
infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than nor more than is in
accordance with the Summit Township Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance be
ordered. In addition, the township shall have the right to proceed in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter. Each day that a violation of this chapter exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord.16.02, passed 1-8-2008)
CHAPTER 95: ALARMS AND MISUSE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
General Provisions and Alarms
   
95.01   Purpose and intent
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   False alarms
   
95.04   Records and procedures
   
95.05   Nuisance alarm systems
   
95.06   Identity of alarm user
Misuse of Emergency Services
   
95.50   Misuse of 9-1-1
   
95.51   [Reserved]
   
95.52   [Reserved]
   
95.53   [Reserved]
   
95.54   [Reserved]
   
95.55   False reports or statements
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ALARMS
§ 95.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Summit Township Board recognized that alarms and 9-1-1 calls are taken
very seriously by emergency service personnel. False alarms and unnecessary 9-
1-1 calls take limited law enforcement, fire and ambulance resources away from
actual emergencies and delay responses to other citizens. The purpose of this
chapter is to prevent unnecessary responses to false alarms or 9-1-1 calls by
law enforcement, fire or emergency medical personnel in the township.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or devices designed, silent or audible, or arranged
to signal the existence of a hazard requiring the urgent or non-urgent response
of fire or law enforcement personnel. These systems include intrusion alarms,
fire alarms and all other alarms which require or result in a response by fire
or law enforcement personnel.
   ALARM USER. Any person who owns, possesses, controls, or otherwise exercises
dominion/responsibility over property upon which an alarm system is placed.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. A member of the Jackson County Sheriff's Office or the
Fire Department.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation, whether intentionally, accidently or otherwise,
of an alarm system requiring an urgent or non-urgent response by fire or law
enforcement personnel assigned to the township, the Jackson County Sheriff's
Office or fire/law enforcement personnel acting on behalf of the township, when
there is no immediate threat to life, safety, or property in, on, or about the
property from which the alarm signal originated. A FALSE ALARM includes an
alarm of unknown origin, but shall not include alarms caused by tornadoes,
earthquakes, lightning, or other conditions beyond the control of the user.
   NUISANCE ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system that is not properly maintained or is
improperly used resulting in repeated false alarms.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized to
investigate and enforce violations of federal law, state law, or township
ordinance. This includes township ordinance officers and firefighters who are
in the process of investigating violations of township ordinances they are
authorized to enforce.
   PERSON. Any individual, business or entity.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.03 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   An alarm user whose alarm system has a false alarm that requires a law
enforcement or Fire Department response to the address of the alarm system is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction as follows:
      (1)   For the first and second false alarm during a calendar year, the
alarm user will receive a warning letter from the Jackson County Sheriff's
Office on behalf of the township.
      (2)   For the third and fourth false alarm during the calendar year, the
appropriate alarm user is responsible for a municipal civil infraction
punishable by a fine of $100.
      (3)    For every false alarm thereafter during the calendar year, the
appropriate alarm user is responsible for a municipal civil infraction
punishable by a fine of $250.
   (B)   A person who intentionally activates or causes a false alarm is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine, plus
cost of prosecution. This section does not apply if the person notifies the
Jackson County Sheriff's Office of their intent to test the alarm system prior
to activating the alarm.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.04 RECORDS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Jackson County Sheriff's Office shall maintain records of law
enforcement responses to false alarms in the township.
   (B)   For the purpose of additional fines and/or penalties under this
chapter, the tracking of false alarms shall be limited to a calendar year and
will restart January 1 of each year.
   (C)   The Jackson County Sheriff's Office shall draft warning letters based
upon their records and provide them to the township to be mailed to the
appropriate alarm user.
   (D)   Citations shall be served in one of the following manners:
      (1)   An authorized official may serve an alarm user a municipal civil
infraction or misdemeanor citation in person for a violation of this chapter;
      (2)   An authorized official may post or attach a copy of a municipal
civil infraction citation upon the building or structure where the alarm system
is utilized. In addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class
mail to the alarm user.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.05 NUISANCE ALARMS SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any alarm system that has had 6 or more false alarms within a calendar
year may be declared a nuisance alarm system.
   (B)   An authorized official may declare an alarm system a nuisance alarm
system after the sixth false alarm in a calendar year; except that, for the
purposes of this section, multiple false alarms in a single 24-hour period
shall be counted as one false alarm.
   (C)   After declaring an alarm system a nuisance alarm system, the
authorized official shall send, or cause to be sent, a letter by mail to the
alarm user at the address of the alarm system notifying them of the dates of
each alarm and the penalty for maintaining a nuisance alarm system. The
authorized official shall maintain a copy of the letter sent to the alarm user.
   (D)   An alarm user who maintains a nuisance alarm system by having
additional false alarm(s) 5 days after an authorized official has sent, or
caused to be sent, a letter to the alarm user, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine, plus cost of
prosecution.
   (E)   Criminal charges arising out of this section do not relieve the alarm
user of their responsibility to bring their alarm system into compliance with
this section and the alarm user remains subject to municipal civil infractions
for additional false alarms in addition to any criminal penalties.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.06 IDENTITY OF ALARM USER.
   (A)   The identity of an alarm user may be established by factors including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Information provided by the alarm company at the time the alarm was
activated;
      (2)   Persons registered to the address through the Secretary of the
State;
      (3)   Property or business records from the township or county;
      (4)   Personal contact with the owner, tenant or lawful occupant of the
property;
      (5)   Other law enforcement records establishing the owner, tenant or
lawful occupant of the property;
      (6)   Information displayed on the property, including the business's
name or owner's name.
   (B)   It is a rebuttable presumption in a civil infraction or criminal
proceeding under this chapter that the owner of a property listed in the
Township Assessor's records is also an alarm user for the property from which a
false alarm is generated.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
MISUSE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES
§ 95.50 MISUSE OF 9-1-1.
   (A)   A person shall not misuse 9-1-1 or other emergency services by:
      (1)   Making repeated calls requesting law enforcement, fire, or
ambulance services for matters which do not require such services;
      (2)   Summoning, as a joke, prank, or without good reason, by telephone
or otherwise, law enforcement or the Fire Department or any public or private
ambulance to go to any address where the service called is not needed;
      (3)   Intentionally making a false report of the commission of a crime,
or intentionally causing a false report of the commission of a crime to be made
to a 9-1-1 operator knowing the report is false; or
      (4)   Making, or intentionally causing to be made, a false report of a
medical or other emergency to a peace officer, police agency of this state or
of a local unit of government, firefighter or fire department of this state or
a local unit of government of this state, 9-1-1 operator, medical first
responder, or any governmental employee or contractor or employee of a
contractor who is authorized to receive reports of medical or other
emergencies.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted under this section if the call originates
in the township or causes services to be summoned to a location in the
township.
   (C)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine, plus cost of
prosecution.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.51 [RESERVED].
§ 95.52 [RESERVED].
§ 95.53 [RESERVED].
§ 95.54 [RESERVED].
§ 95.55 FALSE REPORTS OR STATEMENTS.
   (A)   A person who is informed by a peace officer that he or she is
conducting a criminal investigation shall not do any of the following:
      (1)   By any trick, scheme, or device, knowingly and willfully conceal
from the peace officer any material fact relating to the criminal
investigation.
      (2)   Knowingly and willfully make any statement to the peace officer
that the person knows is false or misleading regarding a material fact in that
criminal investigation.
      (3)   Knowingly and willfully issue or otherwise provide any writing or
document to the peace officer that the person knows is false or misleading
regarding a material fact in that criminal investigation.
   (B)   A person who is informed or should have reason to know that a peace
officer is investigating a criminal violation of township ordinance or a
collision involving a motor vehicle shall not knowingly make a false or
misleading statement to a peace officer about a material fact in the
investigation.
   (C)   A person shall not intentionally make a false report of the commission
of a crime, or intentionally cause a false report of the commission of a crime
to be made, to a peace officer or police agency with jurisdiction in the
township, or any other governmental employee or contractor, or employee of a
contractor who is authorized to receive reports of a crime, knowing the report
is false.
   (D)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine, plus cost of
prosecution.
(Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of §§
95.01 et seq. shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined
by law and shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 and not more
than $500 as determined by the court. In addition, such person shall be deemed
to be responsible for costs, which may include all expenses to which the
township has been put as a result of the municipal civil infraction. In no
case, however, shall costs of less than $10, nor more than $500, be ordered. A
person found to be in violation shall also be subject to such additional
sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law. The term
PERSON shall be deemed to include partnerships, limited liability companies,
corporations, and other legal entities.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 96: VEGETATION
Section
   
96.01   Definitions of noxious weeds
   
96.02   Application
   
96.03   Exemptions
   
96.04   Presence of weeds a public nuisance
   
96.05   Duty of owner, agent or occupant
   
96.06   Failure of owner, agent or occupant to comply: action by township;
collection of expenses; penal provision
   
96.07   Appointment of agent
   
96.08   Effective date
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS OF NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include Canada Thistle
(Circium arvense); dodders (any species of Cuscuta); mustards (charlock, black
mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis); wild carrot
(Daucus carota); bindweed (Convolvuius arvensis); perennial sowthistle (Sonchus
arvensis); hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana); ragweed (Ambrosia elatioril);
poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron); poison sumac (Toxicondendron vermix); oxeyes;
daisies; ragweed; goldenrod; grass; brush; rank vegetation; or other plant or
vegetation which is recognized as deleterious to health, safety or public
welfare and recognized as common nuisance.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 96.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands in the township which are in
commercial or residential areas and/or which are plotted as subdivisions.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 96.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions from the provisions of this chapter are flower gardens, plots of
shrubbery, vegetable gardens, small grain plots and agricultural lands. An
exemption under the terms of this section cannot be claimed unless the land has
been cultivated and cared for in a manner appropriate to the exemption
categories.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 96.04 PRESENCE OF WEEDS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the agent, owner or occupant of any land in the
township to cause, or permit to grow on the land any noxious weeds or grass
higher than 12 inches in height. The presence of such weeds and/or grass (as
defined in §
96.01 hereof) upon the land is hereby deemed to be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare of the township and shall constitute a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 96.05 DUTY OF OWNER, AGENT OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every premises, and the owner of
unoccupied premises within the township, to cut and remove, or destroy by
lawful means, all such weeds, or other rank, noxious or harmful vegetation, as
often as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The
cutting, removing or destroying of the weeds must be done to a depth of 10 rods
(165 feet) measured from the edge of a dedicated public road, or the depth of
the lot, whichever is less. When the cutting, removing or destroying of the
weeds is done at least once in every 3 weeks, between May 1 and September 15 of
each year, the property shall be deemed to be in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978; Am. Ord. 19.01, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord.
passed 10-9-2012)
§ 96.06 FAILURE OF OWNER, AGENT OR OCCUPANT TO COMPLY: ACTION BY TOWNSHIP;
COLLECTION OF EXPENSES; PENAL PROVISION.
   (A)   The township may publish a notice in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county during the month of March that weeds not cut by May 1
of that year may be cut by the township, and the cost charged to the owner of
the property as provided in this section. This notice shall describe methods of
treating an eradicating the noxious weeds and a summary of the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   In the event that the owner, agent or occupant of any land in the
township to which this chapter applies, shall fail or refuse to comply with the
provisions of §
96.04 hereof, then after 10 days’ notice to such person of the fact of a
violation of §
96.04, by certified mail, return receipt requested, the Township Supervisor, or
any officer, inspector or other agent authorized by the Township Board of
Summit, may enter upon the land and cut and destroy any and all noxious weeks
or harmful vegetation, as defined in §
96.01 hereof, located on the land.
   (C)   The owner, agent or occupant of such land shall be liable for all
costs incurred by the township in connection with the cutting or destroying,
including an additional fee of 15% for inspection, with a minimum cost or
charge of $15.
   (D)   From the time of the commencement of the cutting and destruction of
the noxious weeds and vegetation, as defined in § 96.01, the township shall
have a lien upon the land; and in the event the charges involved are not paid
by the owner, agent or occupant of said land within 30 days from the date of
billing to the person by certified mail, return receipt requested, payment
shall be deemed delinquent and the lien enforceable as a tax lien, as is
provided by law, against the land to be charged and collected as in the case of
general property tax against the land in question.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978; Am. Ord. 19.01, passed 11-13-2001)  Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.07 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
   The Summit Township Supervisor, or the Township Board, may appoint an agent
to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 96.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective from and after publication hereof.
(Ord. 19.00, passed 9-12-1978)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of §§
96.01 et seq. shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined
by law and shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 and not more
than $500 as determined by the court. In addition, such person shall be deemed
to be responsible for costs, which may include all expenses to which the
township has been put as a result of the municipal civil infraction. In no
case, however, shall costs of less than $10, nor more than $500, be ordered. A
person found to be in violation shall also be subject to such additional
sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law. The term
PERSON shall be deemed to include partnerships, limited liability companies,
corporations, and other legal entities.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 97: FIREWORKS
Section
   
97.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
97.02   [Reserved]
   
97.03   [Reserved]
   
97.04   [Reserved]
   
97.05   Hours
 
   
97.98   Storage costs for violation
§ 97.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The township adopts by reference M.C.L.A. §§ 750.243a et seq.,
750.243b, and the federal Safe Explosives Act of 2002, as if set forth fully in
this code.
   (B)   The township adopts by reference the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act,
M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451, et seq., as if set forth fully in this code.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-21-2012)
§ 97.02 [RESERVED].
§ 97.03 [RESERVED].
§ 97.04 [RESERVED].
§ 97.05 HOURS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, consumer fireworks shall
not be ignited, discharged or used in the township.
   (B)   Fireworks may be discharged after 11:00 a.m. on the following dates:
      (1)   December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
      (2)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
      (3)   June 29 to July 4 until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
      (4)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.
      (5)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day until 11:45
p.m. on each of those days.
   (C)   The Township Supervisor or a designee may approve a permit for a
person, business or entity to ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks on
days other than those outlined above. Such a permit shall specify the specific
location(s), specific day(s) and time(s) consumer fireworks may be ignited,
discharged or used as well as any other special terms the township
representative deems necessary.
      (1)   A person who fails to comply with all the terms of a permit issued
by the township is considered in violation of this section.
      (2)   The Township Supervisor and/or a designee shall notify the Fire
Department and the Jackson County Sheriff's Office in writing of any permits
granted under this section.
   (D)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 28.457(3), a person who violates this section
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be fined $1,000 for
each violation. Five hundred dollars ($500) of the civil fine shall be remitted
to the law enforcement agency taking enforcement action.
(Ord. 162, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 97.98 STORAGE COSTS FOR VIOLATION.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed for the violation of this chapter,
a person that is found guilty or responsible for a violation of this chapter
shall be required to reimburse the appropriate governmental agency for the
costs of storing seized fireworks that the governmental agency confiscated for
a violation of this chapter. This reimbursement shall be in a form and at a
time as required by the agency and as otherwise required by law.
(Ord. 162, passed 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
98.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 98.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The township adopts by reference the Jackson County Parks Rules for Parks as
if set forth fully in this code.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS
      
112.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Junk and Secondhand Dealers
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Junk dealer regulations
   
110.03   Secondhand/antique dealer regulations
   
110.04   Reporting of purchases
   
110.05   Unlawful purchase
   
110.06   Conformance to statutes
   
110.07   Effective date
Registration of Businesses Having Hazardous Material
   
110.20   Registration requirement
   
110.21   Definition
   
110.22   Registration contents
   
110.23   Notification of change
   
110.24   Conflicts
   
110.25   Effective date
Garage and Yard Sales
   
110.40   Generally
   
110.99   Penalty
JUNK AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE DEALER. Any person who sells, transfers, or disposes of any antiques
in the ordinary course of business.
   ANTIQUES. All goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property held for
sale at retail, which have an estimated age of at least 100 years.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who keeps a junk shop or engages in the business of
buying and selling old rope, old iron, brass, tin, copper, lead, empty bottles,
rubber, paper, or other articles commonly known as junk, or drives or causes to
be driven through the streets of the township any vehicle for the purpose of
collecting any such articles.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who sells, transfers, or disposes of any
secondhand goods in the ordinary course of business.
   SECONDHAND GOODS.
      (1)   Any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property acquired
or purchased after having been acquired at retail and used by another.
      (2)   The term shall also include goods, wares, merchandise, or other
personal property repossessed or reacquired under the terms of any conditional
sale, title retaining contract, or purchase money chattel mortgage, or which
shall have been acquired by way of trade-in, exchange, barter, or application
toward the purchase price of any other article.
      (3)   The term shall not include antiques, motor vehicles, trailers,
junk, or precious items as defined by Public Act 95 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§
445.481 et seq., M.S.A. 19.720(1) et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 110.02 JUNK DEALER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following regulations will be applicable to junk
dealers.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No junk dealer or any employee of a junk dealer shall receive in
the line of the business any article by way of pledge or pawn nor loan or
advance of any sum of money on the security of any article or thing.
      (2)   (a)   Every junk dealer must, upon demand, exhibit all goods that
are on hand and give a description of persons selling the same to any member of
the Sheriff’s Department or the Ordinance Officer upon request, and must keep a
book containing the names of the persons from whom he or she purchased brass,
tin, copper, or any metal except old iron.
         (b)   The book shall be available during business hours for inspection
by officers of the Sheriff’s Department and the Township Ordinance Officer.
         (c)   Refusal to permit inspection shall be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
      (3)   No junk dealer shall sell or remove from his or her place of
business any article purchased by him or her until the article has been in his
or her possession for 72 hours unless the article was purchased directly from a
reputable factory or company.
      (4)   It is unlawful to establish junkyards or engage in the business of
junk dealing in the township, except as permitted by
Chapter 150.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 SECONDHAND/ANTIQUE DEALER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following regulations shall apply to secondhand and
antique dealers.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Every secondhand dealer or antique dealer must maintain a book or
record in which the following must be entered for every secondhand good or
antique acquired:
         (a)   A description of the item, including serial numbers, model
numbers, brand name, color and other identifying marks or data;
         (b)   The name, description, driver’s license number, and residence of
the person from whom the item was purchased;
         (c)   The license number of any motor vehicle used to transport the
goods to the recipient; and
         (d)   The date and time when the purchase or acquisition of the item
was made.
      (2)   Each entry made in the book or record shall be numbered
consecutively, each commencing with the number “1.”
      (3)   (a)   Books and records kept must be available for inspection by
officers of the Sheriff’s Department and the Township Ordinance Officer.
         (b)   A refusal to permit inspection, or interference with or
obstruction of, the inspection will be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
      (4)   (a)   All secondhand goods or antiques purchased or acquired must
be retained for a period of at least 7 days before sale or disposal.
         (b)   A tag shall be attached to each article in a visible and
convenient place.
         (c)   The tag shall contain a number corresponding with the entry
number in the book or record provided for in division (B)(2) above.
         (d)   During the period while the goods are in the possession of the
dealer, they will be subject to inspection at any time by any officer of the
Sheriff’s Department or the Township Ordinance Officer.
         (e)   Refusal to permit inspection will be deemed a violation of this
subchapter.
      (5)   All dealers must require the presentation of photo identification
by sellers, so as to verify the seller’s name and other information, as well as
for verification of the seller’s age.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 REPORTING OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   All purchases made by the dealer, excluding clothing, furniture, or
items acquired from a reputable company or dealer, must be reported to Summit
Township within 24 hours of purchase, exclusive of weekends or holidays.
   (B)   Reporting must be done utilizing the forms provided by the township,
requiring a thumbprint of the seller.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE.
   No secondhand dealer, junk dealer, or antique dealer shall purchase or
receive by sale, barter, exchange, or otherwise, any junk, secondhand goods, or
antiques:
   (A)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (B)   From any person with the knowledge that the junk, secondhand goods, or
antiques are stolen property; nor
   (C)   From any person under the age of 18 years. A photo ID shall be
required to prove age.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 CONFORMANCE TO STATUTES.
   This subchapter shall be construed as supplementary to, and not in conflict
with, Public Act 350 of 1917, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.401 et seq., M.S.A. 19.711
et seq., and Public Act 231 of 1945, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.471 et seq., M.S.A.
19.740(1) et seq., or any other acts amendatory thereof or supplementary
thereto, and the absence of any provisions of the acts from this subchapter
shall not be considered as evidencing an intent that the provisions shall not
have full force and effect.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 110.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 30 days after its publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Township of Summit.
(Ord. 111, passed 5-14-2002)
REGISTRATION OF BUSINESSES HAVING HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
§ 110.20 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   Any business located in the township which is required by state or federal
law or regulation to supply the township or Fire Department with material
safety data sheets and a hazardous material response plan for either on-site or
off-site material shall register said business with the Clerk of the township.
(Ord. 116.00, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any individual, firm, municipality, company, association, society,
corporation, partnership, or group, including their officers and employees who
have responsibility for or actual involvement in the operation of a business
within the township limits, whether the same be for profit or non-profit, which
is registered with the County of Jackson or State of Michigan as a business.
(Ord. 116.00, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 110.22 REGISTRATION CONTENTS.
   Any business required by this subchapter to register with the township shall
provide the following information to the Township Clerk:
   (A)   The name of the business;
   (B)   The address of the business;
   (C)   The owner of the business;
   (D)   The type of the business;
   (E)   A copy of the hazardous material response plan and material safety
data sheets together with any changes in such plan or sheets.
(Ord. 116.00, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.23 NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE.
   Businesses are required to keep their registration current. Any changes,
alterations, or additions to the information that the business originally
provided under §
110.22 requires an amendment to the original registration within 30 days of the
changes made.
(Ord. 116.00, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022) Penalty,
see §
110.99
§ 110.24 CONFLICTS.
   Any ordinance or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with any of
the provisions of this subchapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 116.00, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 110.25 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be published in the manner provided by law and shall
take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 116.00, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022)
GARAGE AND YARD SALES
§ 110.40 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Occasional sales of household goods and personal property shall be
permitted in each of the residential districts, but the occasional sales,
whether they be designated as yard sales, garage sales, porch sales, moving
sales, basement sales, or household or personal goods sales, shall not be held
on any premises more often than once every 60 days, and in no case shall any
such sale or sales exceed 3 days in duration.
   (B)   Signs advertising sales governed by this subchapter shall not be
posted for more than 3 consecutive days either on the property where the sale
is occurring or on any other property in the township.
   (C)   This subchapter is adopted to regulate and discourage commercial and
systematic sales of articles in residential districts within the township.
   (D)   It is the intent of this subchapter to authorize and allow periodic
sales of household goods by homeowners in residential districts, but to
prohibit businesses and other commercial enterprises from engaging in business
in a residential district.
   (E)   This subchapter shall be duly published as provided by law in the
Jackson Citizen Patriot, a newspaper having general circulation in Summit
Township, and shall take effect after publication.
(Ord. 26, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails
to comply with a duly authorized order issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined by
Michigan Statute which shall be punishable by civil fine determined in
accordance with §§
30.03 through
30.07.
   (B)   The violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses, direct
and indirect, which the township has incurred in connection with the municipal
infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than nor more than is in
accordance with §§
30.03 through
30.07 be ordered. In addition, the township shall have the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter. Each day that a violation of this chapter exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. - -, passed 9-9-2008; Am. Ord. 116.00, passed 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License application
   
111.04   Exempt persons
   
111.05   General regulations and prohibition
   
111.06   Additional enforcement remedies
   
111.07   Effective date
Panhandling
   
111.20   Panhandling
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PANHANDLER, PANHANDLING and PANHANDLE. Any solicitation made in person upon
any street, public property, public place or private property open to and
generally accessible to the public, in which a person requests an immediate
donation of money or other goods from another person, verbally or otherwise,
and includes, but is not limited to, seeking donations. PANHANDLING shall not
include solicitations from charitable or civic organizations as defined in
M.C.L.A. § 257.676b.
   SOLICITOR, SOLICITATION, and SOLICITING. Any person (which includes any
individual, firm, corporation, or organization or its agents), traveling either
by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or other conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for the sale of goods and merchandise or personal property of any
nature; or attempting to collect monies, pledges, or donations for charitable
or religious causes; or for services to be furnished or performed, whether or
not the person has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of the
sale or whether the person is collecting advance payments on the sales or not;
or any similar actions or activities including those persons who call
themselves transient merchants; canvassers, peddlers, and other similar terms.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001; Am. Ord. 29.05, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall solicit within
the township (“Township”) without first obtaining a license. No license shall
be granted without prior approval by the Township Clerk. All licenses shall
expire 30 days after approval, unless renewed by the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The license application may be obtained during normal business hours
at the township offices, and the application shall be applied for at least 7
days prior to the date of conducting the solicitation.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant, and names of those persons
soliciting for the applicant. Each individual solicitor must supply his or her
driver’s license number or other form of personal identification to the
township;
      (2)   Permanent home address and local address of the applicant, and for
all other persons soliciting for the applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the organization and business,
and the goods or service to be sold or solicited;
      (4)   The length of time for which the solicitation is desired;
      (5)   A statement as to approximate locations within the township where
the solicitations will take place;
      (6)   Applicant(s) shall provide a photograph of each person who will be
soliciting under the applicant;
      (7)   A statement as to whether or not any persons, firm, corporation, or
organization have been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor, or ordinance
violation involving a violent crime, theft, burglary, breaking and entering,
fraud, or concerning canvassing or solicitation within the past 7 years, and if
so, the nature of the offense;
      (8)   The township shall prepare and issue a solicitor authorization
document to each person soliciting under the applicant. The document shall be
displayed by the solicitor at all times while soliciting in the township and
shall be presented by that person to any resident requesting identification
prior to any attempt to sell a product or service to that resident; and
      (9)   Any denial of a license application shall be made in writing
specifying the reasons for denial within 3 days of the filing of the
application. An appeal of a denial shall be made to the Township Board which
shall decide the appeal within 30 days of filing of the appeal.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 111.04 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following persons soliciting are exempt from licensing
requirements under this chapter. Except as provided in this section, all
solicitation exempt under this section shall still comply with general
regulations and prohibitions of §
111.05.
   (B)   Neighborhood soliciting. Any person who is soliciting within 1 mile of
his or her residence and under the direct supervision of any school, state, or
federally registered or recognized charitable, nonprofit, or religious
organization does not need to be registered or licensed. Any such person shall
provide identification or the affiliation upon request.
   (C)   Non-neighborhood soliciting. Any person who is soliciting for a
school, state, or federally registered or recognized charitable, nonprofit, or
religious purposes but who is not within 1 mile of their residence, must
register with the township and provide the Township Clerk, in writing, his or
her name, address, and driver’s license number. No license shall be required,
but the person shall provide evidence to the township that the organization for
which the solicitation is taking place is a school, recognizable charitable,
nonprofit, or religious organization. The Township Clerk shall prepare and
issue an authorization document to each person soliciting under the applicant.
The document shall be displayed by the solicitor at all times while soliciting
in the township and shall be presented by that person to any resident
requesting identification prior to any attempt to sell a product or service to
that resident.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 111.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITION.
   Unless otherwise expressly permitted by another ordinance or law:
   (A)   No person shall engage in any solicitation on any property against the
wish or desire of the property owner or the tenant or occupant of the property;
   (B)   No person engaged in any solicitation shall visit any dwelling or
residence without an appointment where a sign is displayed stating “no
peddlers,” “no solicitors,” “no sales,” “no trespassing,” or words of similar
meaning; and
   (C)   No persons shall travel from door to door, street to street, or place
to place within the township while engaged in solicitation between the hours of
dusk and dawn.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   In addition to any remedies available at law, the township may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against any person to restrain,
prevent, or abate any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001)
§ 111.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days after its publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Township of Summit.
(Ord. 29.03, passed 11-13-2001)
PANHANDLING
§ 111.20 PANHANDLING.
   A person shall not do any of the following:
   (A)   Engage in any act of panhandling on any day after sunset or before
sunrise.
   (B)   Engage in an act of panhandling when either the panhandler or the
person being solicited is located at any of the following places:
      (1)   A bus stop;
      (2)   In any public transportation vehicle or public transportation
facility;
      (3)   Any outdoor café, eating area or restaurant;
      (4)   Within 25 feet in any direction from any automatic teller machine
or bank entrance;
      (5)   Within 12 feet of the entrance or exit to any public or private
building; or
      (6)   Upon private property without the consent of the owner.
   (C)   Engage in any act of panhandling when the person being solicited is
the operator or other occupant of a motor vehicle being operated upon a public
roadway or is conducted in a manner so as to obstruct or interfere with the
flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, except as provided by M.C.L.A. §
257.676b.
   (D)   Engage in any act of panhandling in an aggressive manner, including
any of the following:
      (1)   Touching the solicited person without the solicited person's
consent;
      (2)   Panhandling a person while such person is standing in line and
waiting to be admitted to a commercial establishment;
      (3)   Blocking the path of a person being solicited, or the entrance to
any building or vehicle;
      (4)   Following behind, ahead, or alongside a person who walks away from
the panhandler after being solicited;
      (5)   Making any statement, gesture, or other communication that would
cause a reasonable person to feel threatened or compelled into making a
donation;
      (6)   Panhandling in a group of 2 or more persons;
      (7)   Conduct which is intended or is likely to cause a reasonable person
to fear immediate bodily harm to oneself or to another or damage to or loss of
property, or which intimidates another person into giving money or other thing
of value.
      (8)   Knowingly making a false or misleading representation in the course
of a solicitation;
      (9)   By moving to within 2 feet of the person solicited, unless that
person has indicated that he or she wishes to be solicited.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of §§
111.01, et seq. shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500, except that
a person who violates §
111.20(D) is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or
a $500, plus cost of prosecution. The term PERSON shall be deemed to include
any individual, business or entity.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008; Am. Ord. 29.05, passed 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 112: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Prohibited
   
112.04   Rights unaffected
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Township of Summit Marijuana
Establishments and Facilities Ordinance.”
(Ord. passed 12-11-2018)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   IHRA. The Industrial Hemp Research Act, 2014 PA 547, M.C.L.A. §§ 286.841 et
seq.
   MARIJUANA. That substance as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.7106(4).
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. That term as defined in the MRTMA.
   MARIJUANA FACILITY. That term as defined in MMFLA.
   MMFLA. The Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, 2016 PA 281, as
amended.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, 2008 IL 1, as amended.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marijuana Act, 2018 IL, as
amended.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2018)
§ 112.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 6 of the MRTMA, marihuana establishments are
prohibited within the boundaries of the Township of Summit.
   (B)   Marijuana facilities are prohibited within the boundaries of the
Township of Summit.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2018)
§ 112.04 RIGHTS UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in §
112.03 above, this chapter shall not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or entity preserved under the MRTMA.
   (B)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of a marijuana
facility outside of the Township of Summit to engage in activities within the
Township of Summit that it is permitted to engage in under the MMFLA within a
municipality that has not authorized marijuana facilities to operate within its
boundaries.
   (C)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of registered
qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers under the MMMA.
   (D)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or entity under the Il-IRA.
   (E)   This chapter does not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or entity under any other federal or state law, rule or regulation
related to the medical use of marijuana.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2018)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes, allows or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500 in the discretion of
the Court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
township to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper
remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs, which may include all
expenses direct and indirect, which the township incurs in connection with the
municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the township may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the Township of Summit, or by such other person(s) as
designated by the Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
      
131.   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
      
132.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      133.   MISCELLANEOUS CRIMINAL ACTS
CHAPTER 130: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Unlawful act
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Disorderly person
   
130.04   Violating person
   
130.05   Exceptions
   
130.06   [Reserved]
   
130.07   Conflicts
 
   
130.99   Penalty and fingerprinting
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful and punishable, as provided herein, for any person to be a
disorderly person within the township.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person employed, appointed or elected by the people of
the township, by the state or the county, whose duty it is to preserve the
peace or to make an arrest or to enforce the law. This includes any member of
the Sheriff's Office, game, fish, or forest wardens, members of the state
police, conservation officers, ordinance officers or firefighters.
   PERSON. State and local officers and employees, individuals, corporations,
co-partnerships, and associations.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, sidewalk, park, public building, any place
of business open to or frequented by the public, and any other place which is
visible or accessible to the public.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Summit.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY PERSON.
   (A)   Generally. A person is a DISORDERLY PERSON if the person is any of the
following, or the person aids or abets another to do such an act or engage in
any practice so as to be.
   (B)   Specifically: crimes against persons.
      (1)   A person who commits an assault or assault and battery against
another person;
      (2)   A person who spits or expectorates on, at, or toward another
person;
      (3)   A person who maliciously telephones any other person for the
purpose of harassing, molesting, threatening, intimidating, or annoying the
other person or his or her family, whether or not conversation ensues. A person
may be prosecuted under this section if the call originates or is received by a
person in this township.
   (C)   Specifically: obstruction of government business.
      (1)   A person who bribes, attempts to bribe, offers any service or
anything of value to any peace officer or other public official in order to
influence the peace officer or other public official to neglect their duties or
responsibilities as a peace officer or public official;
      (2)   A person who knowingly or willfully conceals or harbors for the
purpose of concealment from a peace officer a person who has escaped or is
escaping from lawful custody or a person with an active arrest warrant or an
active bench warrant;
      (3)   A person who falsely identifies or falsely represents themselves
as, wears the uniform of, displays the badge of, or otherwise impersonates a
peace officer, firefighter, paramedic or other emergency service worker when
the person is not actually employed in such a capacity;
      (4)   A person who makes a false report, by telephone or otherwise, to
any public official which may reasonably be expected to cause the evacuation or
closing of a building or place open to the public. A person may be prosecuted
under this section if the call originates in the township or causes the
evacuation or closing of a building or place open to the public in the
township;
      (5)   A person who knowingly and willfully raises or activates a false
fire alarm by:
         (a)   Ringing any bell or operating any mechanical apparatus,
electrical apparatus or combination thereof;
         (b)   Falsely declaring there to be a fire orally, by telephone or in
person, in any public place or private property;
      (6)   A person who opens, tampers with or damages a fire hydrant without
proper authority;
      (7)   A person who willfully and maliciously damages, destroys, injures,
defaces, dismantles, tampers with, or removes a traffic control device;
      (8)    A person who knowingly has in his or her possession any blank,
forged, stolen, fictitious, counterfeit, or unlawfully issued driver license or
identification card of any state or any instrument in the similitude of a
driver license or identification card of any state.
   (D)   Specifically: crimes against public peace and morals.
      (1)   A person who is intoxicated in a public place and who is either
endangering directly the safety of another person or of property or is acting
in a manner that causes a public disturbance;
      (2)   A person who disturbs the public peace and quiet by engaging in a
disturbance, fight, quarrel, or altercation in a public place;
      (3)   A person who is found jostling, shoving, pushing, or roughly
crowding people without permission in a public place;
      (4)   A person who urinates or defecates in a public place, or a person
who intentionally urinates or defecates in any area of a restroom open to the
public other than a toilet or urinal;
      (5)   A person who knowingly attends, frequents, operates, or loiters in
or about a place where gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor,
controlled substances, or any other illegal business or occupation is permitted
or conducted;
      (6)   A person who, without authority, acts alone or as a group, to
obstruct or interfere with the free, convenient, and normal use of any public
place, or the ingress, egress, and regress of private property by hindering or
impeding the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians. A peace officer must not make an arrest for this section without
first ordering the violating person to cease their conduct and move on or
disperse, or to remove any obstructions;
      (7)   Any person, 18 years of age or older, who accosts, solicits, or
invites another in any public place, or in or from any building or vehicle, by
word, gesture, or any other means, to commit prostitution or to do any other
lewd or immoral act;
      (8)   A person who invites, entices, coaxes, persuades, or induces by
threat, promise, or false statement, any minor child under the age of 18 years
to enter any motor vehicle or conveyance, or private property or place, except
where the parent or guardian of that child has given that person express
consent. This section does not prohibit school personnel, peace officers,
public safety officials, public health, or social worker personnel from
carrying out the nominal duties of their employment;
      (9)   A person who knowingly makes any open or indecent exposure of his
or her person or the person of another in any public place;
      (10)   A minor, 16 years of age or younger, who is in a public place or
on a public street or sidewalk between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
provided, however, that this section does not apply to a minor who is:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (c)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (d)   Involved in an emergency;
         (e)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
         (f)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a unit of government, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by a unit of government, a civic organization, or another similar
entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
         (g)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
      (11)   A person who commits any act of prostitution.
   (E)   (1)   Specifically: weapons.
      (2)   A person who knowingly carries or possesses any of the following in
a public place:
         (a)   A knife having a blade over 3 inches in length;
         (b)   A switchblade, or a knife of any length having the appearance of
a pocket knife in which the blade or blades can be opened by the flick of a
button, pressure on a handle or other mechanical contrivance;
         (c)   A dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, other than a
firearm, designed or adapted to be used against another person.
   (F)   Specifically: alcohol and controlled substances.
      (1)   A person who knowingly possesses any open intoxicant or consumes
any alcoholic beverages, beer, liquor, spirits, or controlled substance while
in or upon a public street, sidewalk, or non-licensed public place;
      (2)   A person who, for the purpose of causing a condition of
intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of
the senses or nervous system, intentionally smells or inhales the fumes of any
chemical agent or intentionally drinks, eats or otherwise introduces any
chemical agent into his or her respiratory or circulatory system, except as
permitted for medical or dental purposes;
      (3)   A person who smokes or uses a tobacco product on the property of
any public, private or parochial school during any day classes, sports
activities or other events are held at the school.
   (G)   Specifically: crimes against property.
      (1)   A person who willfully and maliciously destroys, damages,
vandalizes or injures the property of another person, business or entity;
      (2)   A person who breaks and enters, or enters without breaking, without
first obtaining permission to enter from the owner, occupant, agent, or person
having immediate control of:
         (a)   Any dwelling house, structure, or any other type of building,
whether occupied or unoccupied;
         (b)   Any boat, ship, railroad car, truck, trailer, motor vehicle or
any other type of vehicle, vessel or conveyance;
         (c)   Any construction site for any structure being built;
         (d)   Any portion of a store, apartment building or other commercial
establishment that is not intended for access to patrons or tenants, provided
that the area is either locked, conspicuously labeled as an area being
restricted to employees, or otherwise conspicuously marked in a manner that
would lead a reasonable person to believe entry would not be permitted by the
owner or agent.
      (3)   A person who willfully and maliciously burns, damages, or destroys
by fire or explosive any building, structure, hotel, motel, vehicle, personal
property or its contents. This section applies regardless of whether the person
owns the building, structure, hotel, motel, vehicle or its contents, or the
personal property;
      (4)   A person who uses, arranges, places, devises, or distributes an
inflammable, combustible, or explosive material, liquid, or substance or any
device in or near a building, structure, other real property, vehicle or
personal property with the intent to commit arson or who aids, counsels,
induces, persuades, or procures another to do so;
      (5)   A person who, with the intent to defraud or cheat, makes or uses a
false pretense to:
         (a)   Cause a person to grant, convey, assign, demise, lease, or
mortgage land or an interest in land;
         (b)   Obtain a person's signature on a forged written instrument;
         (c)   Obtain from a person any money or personal property or the use
of any instrument, facility, article, or other valuable thing or service;
         (d)   By means of a false weight or measure obtain a larger amount or
quantity of property than was bargained for; or
         (e)   By means of a false weight or measure sell or dispose of a
smaller amount or quantity of property than was bargained for.
      (6)   A person who, with the intent to defraud, writes or delivers a
check drawn on a bank or financial institution to any person, business or
entity, knowing or having reason to known there are insufficient funds in the
account of the person's bank or financial institution to pay the check in full;
      (7)   A person who as the agent, servant, or employee of another person,
governmental entity within this township, or other legal entity or who as the
trustee, bailee, or custodian of the property of another person, governmental
entity within this township, or other legal entity fraudulently disposes of or
converts to his or her own use, or takes or secretes with the intent to convert
to his or her own use without the consent of his or her principal, any money or
other personal property of his or her principal that has come to that person's
possession or that is under his or her charge or control by virtue of his or
her being an agent, servant, employee, trustee, bailee, or custodian;
      (8)   A person who buys, receives, possesses, conceals, or aides in the
concealment of stolen, embezzled, or converted money, goods, or property
knowing, or having reason to know or reason to believe, that the money, goods,
or property is stolen, embezzled, or converted;
      (9)   A person who procures any food, drink, entertainment, accommodation
or service from any restaurant, bar, tavern, inn, hotel, motel, theater, taxi
service or other business and fails to pay for such;
      (10)   A person who discharges a fire extinguisher in public or on the
premises or in the residence of another, without permission of the owner or
occupant thereof, other than with the intent to extinguish a fire;
      (11)   A person who disables, or attempts to disable, in whole or in
part, any motor vehicle owned or operated by another person, by any means,
including, but not limited to: deflating tires attached to the motor vehicle or
placing a foreign substance in the motor vehicle's fuel tank;
      (12)   A person who throws or propels any snowball, rock, missile, or
object from or at a moving vehicle;
      (13)   A person who knowingly has in his or her possession any tool,
implement, device, chemical or substance, designed and/or adapted for cutting
or burning through, forcing or breaking open any building, room, vault, safe,
vehicle or other depository, in order to steal therefrom any money or other
property, knowing the same to be designed and/or adapted for said purpose and
with intent to use or employ the same for said purpose;
      (14)   A person who, without permission of the owner or person in control
of any mailbox or mail receptacle, breaks open or opens without breaking any
mailbox or mail receptacle, or who steals from, or removes mail from any
mailbox or mail receptacle.
   (H)   Specifically: trespassing.
      (1)   A person who prowls about or enters upon any alley or the private
premises of another person in the nighttime, without authority or the
permission of the owner of the premises;
      (2)   A person who, without permission, peeps or peers into the windows
of any inhabited place that he or she does not own or occupy;
      (3)   A person who willfully enters or remains on the lands or premises
of another without lawful authority after having been forbidden to do so by the
owner, occupant, agent, or servant of the owner or occupant. For the purposes
of this section, a clearly visible sign which reads "No Trespassing" acts as
sufficient warning by the owner, occupant, agent, or servant of the owner or
occupant forbidding a person from entering onto the lands or premises without
invitation;
      (4)   A person who willfully enters the lands or premises of another and
who neglects or refuses to depart from the land or premises of another after
being notified by the owner, occupant, agent or servant of the owner or
occupant to depart therefrom;
      (5)   A person who rides, drives or passes through the premises of a
place of business as a shortcut or means of travel without intending to
transact business on the premises.
   (I)   Specifically: traffic.
      (1)   A person who knowingly operates a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon
a highway in the township, or a person who knowingly permits a motor vehicle or
motorcycle owned by that person to be operated upon a highway in the township,
without security or insurance as required by the state Insurance Code of 1956,
being Public Act 218 of 1956 and any amendments thereof. For the purposes of
this section, a negative electronic insurance verification from any computer
connected to the Secretary of State at the time of a violation, combined with a
person's failure to provide evidence of security or insurance at the time of
the a violation, creates a rebuttable presumption in a prosecution under this
section that the motor vehicle or motorcycle did not have in full force and
effect insurance or security;
      (2)   A person who operates or rides a motorcycle, moped, or other motor
vehicle, except motorized wheelchairs, upon a bicycle path, recreational path
or trail, or a sidewalk regularly laid out and constructed for the use of
pedestrians, not including a crosswalk or driveway;
      (3)   A person, without proper authority, who willfully enters upon the
closed portion of any highway or removes the barriers therefrom, or who
removes, obliterates or defaces any sign or mark, or who extinguishes or
removes any light placed or maintained by the public.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022; Am. Ord. 20.04, passed 11-15-2022; Am. Ord. 164,
passed 12-13-2022)
§ 130.04 VIOLATING PERSON.
   Any person who acts in any manner described in §§
130.03 above or
130.06 below, is in violation of this chapter and, upon conviction, must be
punished as set forth in §
130.99 below, whether or not the person(s) had been ordered by a peace officer
that the conduct or violation cease, except as otherwise specifically provided
herein.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 130.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the terms or prohibitions hereof apply to the operation of any
vehicle of the township, or the county, or to any peace officer while engaged
upon necessary public business.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 130.06 [RESERVED].
§ 130.07 CONFLICTS.
   Any ordinance or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with any of
the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 130.99 PENALTY AND FINGERPRINTING.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of § 130.03 is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a fine of $500 plus the
costs of prosecution, except that, the following offenses, substantially
corresponding to state statute, are punishable by up to 93 days in jail and/or
a fine of $500, plus the costs of prosecution, in accordance with Public Act
246 of 1945, Section 3, being M.C.L.A. § 41.183(5):
      (1)   Section (B)(1), assault or assault and battery: M.C.L.A. § 750.81.
      (2)   Section (C)(6), harboring a fugitive: M.C.L.A. § 750.199.
      (3)   Section (C)(7), wearing uniform of police, fire, EMS: M.C.L.A. §§
750.216a, 750.216b, 750.217g, 750.217h.
      (4)   Section (C)(12), tampering with traffic control devices: M.C.L.A. §
750.377d.
      (5)   Section (D)(7), Solicit for prostitution. M.C.L.A. § 750.448.
      (6)   Section (G)(1), malicious destruction of property: M.C.L.A. §
750.377a.
      (7)   Section (G)(3), arson: M.C.L.A. § 750.78.
      (8)   Section (G)(4), preparation to burn: M.C.L.A. § 750.79.
      (9)   Section (G)(5), larceny by false pretense: M.C.L.A. § 750.218.
      (10)   Section (G)(7), embezzlement: M.C.L.A. § 750.174.
      (11)   Section (G)(8), receiving stolen property: M.C.L.A. § 750.535.
      (12)   Section (G)(12), propelling missiles: M.C.L.A. § 750.394.
   (B)   A person who violates any section of this chapter punishable by more
than 92 days in jail must be fingerprinted and have an entry made on their
computerized criminal history in accordance with state law.
   (C)   If a person is convicted of any violation of this chapter which
substantially corresponds to a state law which would cause a person licensed to
carry a concealed pistol in this state to have their license suspended,
revoked, or denied, the court, township attorney or a peace officer must report
the conviction to the state police as prescribed by law.
   (D)   As part of any sentence for a violation of this chapter, a court may
order restitution to any victim in accordance with state law.
   (E)   Any knife or weapon, other than a firearm, seized for being in
violation of this chapter is forfeited to the township and must be disposed of
by the law enforcement agency seizing the item. If a firearm is seized for
being used, carried or possessed in violation of any section substantially
corresponding to a state law on firearms, it must be forfeited to the state in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
CHAPTER 131: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
131.01   Short title and citation
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Offenses
   
131.04   Exceptions
   
131.05   Civil forfeiture
   
131.06   Purpose
   
131.07   Effective date; publication
   
131.08   [Reserved]
   
131.09   [Reserved]
   
131.10   Possession and use of marijuana
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 SHORT TITLE AND CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Township of Summit Drug
Paraphernalia Ordinance.”
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance
in violation of the Public Health Code of the State of Michigan. It includes,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of a plant
which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be
derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use, or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used, intended
for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburation tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburation masks;
            5.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
      (4)   The existence of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons he or she knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this chapter; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone of the object, as to a
direct violation of this Act should not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive material accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (C)   MARIJUANA. Defined and has the same meaning as “marihuana” under
M.C.L.A. § 333.27953.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996; Am. Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 131.03 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to
use, or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Manufacture, sale, or delivery of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful
for any person to sell, deliver, possess with intent to deliver or sell, or
manufacture with intent to deliver or sell, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or
under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to
plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a
controlled substance in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to
place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any
advertisement, knowing or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the
sale of any objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   Possession of illegal and/or controlled substances. It is unlawful for
any person to possess any illegal and/or controlled substance without having a
state and/or federal license or a valid prescription authorizing such person to
possess the same. This section shall not affect the rights or privileges
granted to any person under the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act or the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Medical Marijuana Act.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996; Am. Ord. passed 12-11-2018) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   With the exception of §
131.10, this chapter does not apply to manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers,
licensed medical technicians, technologists, nurses, hospitals, research
teaching institutions, clinical laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic
physicians, dentists, chiropodists, veterinarians, pharmacists, and embalmers
in the normal legal course of their respective business or profession, nor to
persons suffering from diabetes, asthma, or in any other medical condition
requiring self-injection.
   (B)   No provision of §
131.10 applies to a person who is otherwise lawfully allowed to possess
marijuana under any provision of a state law.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996; Am. Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 131.05 CIVIL FORFEITURE.
   Any drug paraphernalia used, sold, possessed with intent to use, sell, or
deliver, or manufactured with the intent to use, sell, or deliver, in violation
of this chapter, shall be seized and forfeited to Summit Township.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 131.06 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is declared necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety, and welfare of the people of the township.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 131.07 EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION.
   This chapter shall become effective immediately upon its adoption. This
chapter shall be published in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996)
§ 131.08 [RESERVED].
§ 131.09 [RESERVED].
§ 131.10 POSSESSION AND USE OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not knowingly possess,
consume, purchase or otherwise obtain, cultivate, process, transport, or sell
marijuana. A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction as follows:
      (1)   For a first violation:
         (a)   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 or community service, forfeiture of the marijuana, and
completion of 4 hours of drug education or counseling; or
         (b)   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not more
than $100 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
      (2)   For a second violation of this section, a state law substantially
corresponding to this section or another municipality's ordinance substantially
corresponding to this section:
         (a)   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 or community service, forfeiture of the marijuana, and
completion of 8 hours of drug education or counseling; or
         (b)   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not more
than $500 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (B)   A person shall not knowingly smoke or consume marijuana in a public
place, or place generally accessible to the public, or smoke marijuana where
prohibited by the person who owns, occupies, or manages the property. A person
who violates this section is responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a
$100 fine and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (C)   A person, 21 years of age or older, shall not knowingly or by failure
to make diligent inquiry, transfer marijuana or marijuana accessories to a
person under the age of 21. A person who violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine and the
forfeiture of the marijuana or marijuana accessories.
   (D)   A person shall not knowingly cultivate marijuana plants if the plants
are visible from a public place without the use of binoculars, aircraft, or
other optical aids, or if the plants are outside of an enclosed area equipped
with locks or other functioning security devices that restrict access to the
area. A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil infraction
punishable by a $100 fine and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (E)   A person shall not knowingly consume marijuana while operating,
navigating, or being in physical control of any motor vehicle, aircraft,
snowmobile, off-road recreational vehicle, or motorboat, or knowingly smoke
marijuana within the passenger area of a vehicle upon a public way. A person
who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90
days in jail and/or a $500 fine and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (F)   A person, 21 years of age or older, shall not knowingly possess
marijuana accessories, possess, consume or smoke marijuana on the grounds of a
public or private school where children attend classes in preschool programs,
kindergarten, or grades 1 through 12, or in a school bus. A person who violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail
and/or a $500 fine and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (G)   A person shall not knowingly possess more than 2.5 ounces of marijuana
within a person's place of residence unless the excess marijuana is stored in a
container or area equipped with locks or other functioning security devices
that restrict access to the contents of the container or area. A person who
violates this section is responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a
$100 fine and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (H)   A person shall not knowingly possess, use, consume, purchase,
transport, process, deliver without receiving any remuneration to a person who
is at least 21 years of age, or possess with intent to deliver more than 2.5
ounces but less than or exactly 5 ounces of marijuana outside of the person's
residence. A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction or guilty of a crime as follows:
      (1)   For a first violation, responsible for a civil infraction and may
be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and forfeiture of the marijuana;
      (2)   For a second violation of this section, a state law substantially
corresponding to this section or another municipality's ordinance substantially
corresponding to this section, responsible for a civil infraction and may be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and forfeiture of the marijuana;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation of this section, a state law
substantially corresponding to this section or another municipality's ordinance
substantially corresponding to this section, guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (I)   A person shall not knowingly possess, store or process more than 10
ounces of marijuana but less than or exactly 20 ounces of marijuana, or
knowingly possess, cultivate, or process more than 12 marijuana plants but less
than or exactly 24 marijuana plants in their residence. A person who violates
this section is responsible for a civil infraction or guilty of a crime as
follows:
      (1)   For a first violation, responsible for a civil infraction and may
be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and forfeiture of the marijuana;
      (2)   For a second violation of this section, a state law substantially
corresponding to this section or another municipality's ordinance substantially
corresponding to this section, responsible for a civil infraction and may be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and forfeiture of the marijuana;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation of this section, a state law
substantially corresponding to this section or another municipality's ordinance
substantially corresponding to this section, guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and forfeiture of the marijuana.
   (J)   A person shall not knowingly possess, use, consume, purchase,
transport, process, deliver without receiving any remuneration to a person who
is at least 21 years of age, or possess with intent to deliver more than 5
ounces of marijuana outside the person's residence. A person who violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor but shall not be subject to imprisonment
unless the violation was habitual, willful, and for a commercial purpose or the
violation involved violence.
   (K)   A person shall not knowingly possess, store or process more than 20
ounces of marijuana, or knowingly possess, cultivate or process more than 24
marijuana plants in their residence. A person who violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor but shall not be subject to imprisonment unless the
violation was habitual, willful, and for a commercial purpose or the violation
involved violence.
(Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
131.10, any person who is convicted of a violation of any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and will be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 90 days, or both. The
township may also proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction to obtain an
injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with this chapter. Election of 1 of the foregoing remedies will not preclude
the application of the other remedy. Each day a violation continues will be
considered a separate offense, and may be punished accordingly.
(Ord. 29.02, passed 7-9-1996; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-2002; Am. Ord. 29.05, passed
1-11-2022)
CHAPTER 132: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
[Reserved]
   
132.01   [Reserved]
   
132.02   [Reserved]
   
132.03   [Reserved]
   
132.04   [Reserved]
Anti-Littering
   
132.15   Short title
   
132.16   Prohibitions
   
132.17   Definition
   
132.18   Effective date
[Reserved]
   
132.30   [Reserved]
   
132.31   [Reserved]
   
132.32   [Reserved]
Retail Fraud
   
132.45   Retail fraud
Larceny
   
132.55   Larceny
 
   
132.99   Penalty
[RESERVED]
§ 132.01 [RESERVED].
§ 132.02 [RESERVED].
§ 132.03 [RESERVED].
§ 132.04 [RESERVED].
ANTI-LITTERING
§ 132.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Anti-Littering
Ordinance of the Township of Summit.”
(Ord. 15.00, passed 4-24-1973)
§ 132.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly, without the consent of the
public authority having supervision of public property or the owner of private
property, to dump, deposit, place, throw, or leave, or cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on any public or
private property or waters other than property designated and set aside for
such purposes. The phrase “public or private property or waters” includes, but
is not limited to, the right-of-way of any road or highway, or any body of
water or watercourse, or the shores or beaches thereof and including the ice
above the waters; any park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or
recreation area; and any residential or farm properties or timberlands.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, in person
or by his or her or its agent, employee, or servant, to use any vehicle to haul
any kind of dirt, rubbish, waste articles or things or substance, whether
liquid or solid, unless the vehicle is covered to prevent any part of its load
from spilling or dropping at all times while the vehicle is in motion on any
street or alley in the township. It shall be covered at all times, except while
actually being loaded or unloaded. Provided, however, that the requirements
herein for covering the vehicles shall not apply to vehicles carrying brush,
cutting, tree trimmings, branches, logs and similar waste material, if the
matter is securely latched to the vehicle to prevent spilling or dropping as
aforesaid.
(Ord. 15.00, passed 4-24-1973) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. All rubbish, refuse, waste material, garbage, offal, paper, glass,
cans, bottles, trash, debris, or other foreign substances of every kind and
description.
(Ord. 15.00, passed 4-24-1973)
§ 132.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days after its publication, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Township of Summit, County of
Jackson, State of Michigan.
[RESERVED]
§ 132.30 [RESERVED].
§ 132.31 [RESERVED].
§ 132.32 [RESERVED].
RETAIL FRAUD
§ 132.45 RETAIL FRAUD.
   (A)   A person who does any of the following in a store or its immediate
vicinity is guilty of retail fraud:
      (1)   While a store is open to the public, alters, transfers, removes and
replaces, conceals or otherwise misrepresents the price at which property is
offered for sale with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less
than the price at which the property is offered for sale;
      (2)   While a store is open to the public, steals property of the store
that is offered for sale; and
      (3)   With intent to defraud, obtains or attempts to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund or exchange for property that was not paid
for and belongs to the store.
   (B)   This section shall be enforced by the Jackson County Sheriff Office.
(Ord. 123, passed 3-27-2018)
LARCENY
§ 132.55 LARCENY.
   (A)   Larceny. No person shall steal the property of another person,
business or entity.
   (B)   Violation and penalties. Any person violating any provision of this
subchapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 93 days in jail, and/
or a fine of not more than $500 plus the cost of prosecution and restitution.
(M.C.L.A. § 750.356).
   (C)   Enforcement. This subchapter shall be enforced by the Jackson County
Sheriff's Office.
(Ord. 156, passed 11-19-2021; Am. Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §§
132.01 et seq. constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 and/or 90 days in the County Jail. Providing further, that where a
state statute specifically sets forth a different fine, and/or possible jail
sentence a person convicted under §§
132.01 et seq. shall not be subject to any fine and/or jail sentence greater
than that imposed by state law. Providing further, that where state statute
specifically defines a violation occurring under §§
132.01 et seq. as a civil infraction the same shall be deemed a civil
infraction under §§
132.01 et seq.
(Ord. 14.03, passed 9-9-1997)
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
132.15 et seq. will be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and will be subject to a
fine not to exceed $500, or by imprisonment in the County Jail not to exceed 90
days, or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
132.30 et seq. or regulation promulgated under the authority of Public Act 159
of 1967 is guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not more than $500, or shall
be imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than 90 days, or shall receive
both the fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
132.45 is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 93 days in jail, and/or a
fine of not more than $500, plus cost of prosecution and restitution.
(M.C.L.A. § 750.356d)
(Ord. 15.00, passed 4-24-1973; Am. Ord. passed 8-10-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-14-
2002; Am. Ord. 123, passed 3-27-2018; Am. Ord. 18.04, passed 6-12-2018; Am.
Ord. 29.05, passed 1-11-2022)
CHAPTER 133: MISCELLANEOUS CRIMINAL ACTS
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Purpose and intent
   
133.02   Definitions
Adoption of State Statutes
   
133.10   Adoption of state statutes pertaining to firearms
   
133.11   Adoption of state statutes pertaining to minors
Weapons
   
133.20   Discharging firearms or other weapons
   
133.21   [Reserved]
   
133.22   [Reserved]
   
133.23   Spring guns and traps
   
133.24   [Reserved]
   
133.25   Pneumatic guns and firearm facsimiles
Reckless Conduct
   
133.30   Lasers
   
133.31   [Reserved]
   
133.32   [Reserved]
   
133.33   [Reserved]
   
133.34   [Reserved]
   
133.35   Reckless disregard
Trespassing
   
133.40   Trespassing on closed business property
   
133.41   Trespassing around or entering vacant structures
   
133.42   Trespassing - presumptive
   
133.43   Trespassing on school property
Obstructing
   
133.50   Obstructing law enforcement
   
133.51   Detention for purposes of identification
   
133.52   [Reserved]
   
133.53   [Reserved]
   
133.54   [Reserved]
   
133.55   Interfering with government functions
Juveniles
   
133.60   Aiding delinquent or harboring runaways
   
133.61   [Reserved]
   
133.62   [Reserved]
   
133.63   [Reserved]
   
133.64   [Reserved]
   
133.65   Interfering with schools and events
   
133.66 - 133.79   [Reserved]
   
133.80   Parental responsibility
Penalties and Supporting Provisions
   
133.95   Automatic adoption of amendments
   
133.96   Citing offenses
   
133.97   Exemptions for peace officers
   
133.98   Seizure and forfeiture of weapons
 
   
133.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and wellbeing
of people and property in the township through the regulation of conduct
relating to weapons. The purpose of this chapter is also to protect the
property rights of residents, businesses and entities in the township, as well
as deter theft and burglary by regulating certain types of trespassing, access
to vacant structures and closed businesses. This chapter provides authority to
peace officers to investigate crime and otherwise protect themselves and the
public during the performance of their duties. Additionally, this chapter
regulates conduct to protect the health, safety and welfare of juveniles in the
township.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARM FACSIMILE. Any blank gun, replica firearm or any object or device
that by size, shape, color, construction or design might reasonably be
perceived to be a firearm or is designed to appear like a firearm, but is not
actually a firearm. A FIREARM FACSIMILE does not include a pneumatic gun.
      PEACE OFFICER. Any sworn federal, state, county or local law enforcement
officer or other person authorized to enforce state laws or township
ordinances. This includes, but is not limited to, any member of the Sheriff's
Office, conservation officers or ordinance officers.
      PNEUMATIC GUN. Any implement, designed as a gun that will expel a BB or
pellet by spring, gas, or air. PNEUMATIC GUN includes a paintball gun that
expels by pneumatic pressure plastic balls filled with paint or other liquids
for the purpose of marking the point of impact.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, sidewalk, park, public building, place of
business open to or frequented by the public, and any other place which is
generally accessible to the public.
   (B)   All other words and phrases related to firearms shall be defined as
they are by state statute.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES
§ 133.10 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES PERTAINING TO FIREARMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 123.1103(a), the township hereby adopts by
reference all misdemeanor provisions of the following sections of the Michigan
Penal Code (Act 328 of 1931) punishable by up to 93 days in jail or less:
      (1)   M.C.L.A. § 750.223 pertaining to the sales of firearms.
      (2)   M.C.L.A. § 750.227d pertaining to the transportation of weapons in
vehicles.
      (3)   M.C.L.A. § 750.232a pertaining to obtaining pistols without a
license or with false identification.
      (4)   M.C.L.A. § 750.233 pertaining to aiming a firearm without malice.
      (5)   M.C.L.A. § 750.234d pertaining to prohibited firearm zones.
      (6)   M.C.L.A. § 750.234e pertaining to brandishing a firearm.
      (7)   M.C.L.A. § 750.234f pertaining to possession of a firearm by a
minor in public.
      (8)   M.C.L.A. § 750.237 pertaining to possession or use of firearms
under the influence.
      (9)   M.C.L.A. § 750.237a pertaining to possession of weapons in a
weapon-free school zone.
   (B)   The township also adopts by reference Section 3 of Act 45 of 1952
being M.C.L.A. § 752.863a, pertaining to reckless use of a firearm.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.11 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES PERTAINING TO MINORS.
   The township hereby adopts by reference the following misdemeanor and civil
infraction provisions of state statute which are punishable by not more than 93
days in jail.
   (A)   Chapter 7 of the Michigan Liquor Control Code; being M.C.L.A. §§
436.1701 through 436.1707 pertaining to alcohol, minors and intoxicated
persons.
   (B)   The following sections of the Michigan Penal Code (Act 328 of 1931):
      (1)   Section 135a, being M.C.L.A. § 750.135a pertaining to minors
unattended in vehicles.
      (2)   Section 141a, being M.C.L.A. § 750.141a pertaining to furnishing
alcohol to minors.
      (3)   Section 145, being M.C.L.A. § 750.145 pertaining to contributing to
the delinquency of minors.
   (C)   The Michigan Youth Tobacco Act (Act 31 of 1915); being M.C.L.A. §§
722.641 through 722.645.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
WEAPONS
§ 133.20 DISCHARGING FIREARMS OR OTHER WEAPONS.
   Unless acting in lawful self-defense, or at a target-shooting range approved
by the township, a person shall not:
   (A)   Discharge a sling-shot, bow and arrow, crossbow, compound bow or any
other type of device, other than a firearm or pneumatic gun, that discharges or
propels any projectile capable of causing death or serious injury within the
township, except wholly upon private property, with the permission of the owner
or occupant; provided that the projectile does not leave the bounds of the
property or otherwise endanger another person.
   (B)   Discharge a firearm at any location within the township, except an
area zoned as agricultural AG-1, as long as the firearms are being discharged
no less than 150 yards from the nearest structure of an adjacent property and
the projectile discharged from the firearm does not leave the bounds of the
property.
   (C)   Because of carelessness, recklessness or negligence, but not willfully
or wantonly, cause or allow any firearm under his or her control to be
discharged so as to destroy or injure the property of another, real or
personal.
(M.C.L.A. § 752.862)
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.21 [RESERVED].
§ 133.22 [RESERVED].
§ 133.23 SPRING GUNS AND TRAPS.
   A person shall not set, nor shall any person permit to be set on property
under their control, any spring or other gun, or any trap or device designed to
inflict injury, pain, incapacitation or death upon another person and leave or
permit the same to be left, except in the immediate presence of and
continuously monitored by a competent person.
(M.C.L.A. § 750.236)
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.24 [RESERVED].
§ 133.25 PNEUMATIC GUNS AND FIREARM FACSIMILES.
   A person shall not do any of the following:
   (A)   Point or aim a pneumatic gun or firearm facsimile at another person,
or threaten another person with a pneumatic gun or firearm facsimile without
the other person's consent.
   (B)   Discharge a pneumatic gun at, towards or near another person or
another person's property without the other person's consent.
   (C)   Brandish, point, wave about, or display a pneumatic gun or firearm
facsimile in a threatening manner with the intent to induce fear in another
individual.
   (D)   Discharge a pneumatic gun while in a public place, or private property
generally accessible to and open to the public, without express permission from
the owner of that property.
   (E)   Discharge a pneumatic gun upon private property in a manner which
causes the projectile to leave the bounds of the property it was discharged
from, without consent of the person with lawful authority over the property the
projectile so enters.
   (F)   Discharge a pneumatic gun from or towards a motor vehicle upon public
property or private property open to and generally accessible to the public.
   (G)   Being under the age of 16 years old, possess a pneumatic gun in a
public place, unless under the direct supervision of a parent, guardian or
person 18 years of age or older.
   (H)   Use or possess a pneumatic gun or firearm facsimile in the commission
of a crime.
   (I)   Use or possess a pneumatic gun or firearm facsimile in a weapon free
school zone, as defined by state law.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
RECKLESS CONDUCT
§ 133.30 LASERS.
   A person shall not knowingly direct the beam from a laser or similar device
into the eye(s) or onto the body of another person or an animal, toward any
occupied vehicle or toward a residence without consent of the person, the owner
or occupant of the property, or the owner of the animal the beam is directed
at.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.31 [RESERVED].
§ 133.32 [RESERVED].
§ 133.33 [RESERVED].
§ 133.34 [RESERVED].
§ 133.35 RECKLESS DISREGARD.
   A person shall not willfully, recklessly or with wanton disregard engage in
conduct which creates a substantial risk of endangering the life, health,
safety or wellbeing of any other person or exposes real or personal property to
damage or destruction.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
TRESPASSING
§ 133.40 TRESPASSING ON CLOSED BUSINESS PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person shall not enter or remain on the property of any business or
commercial establishment, including, but not limited to the parking areas or
other outdoor areas, when the premises are closed for business, unless invited
by or given permission to do so by the owner, operator or agent of the
business;
   (B)   A peace officer may stop and detain a suspected violator of division
(A) above for the purpose of ascertaining the person's identity and
investigating the suspected violation. A peace officer shall not make an arrest
or issue a citation unless the peace officer has instructed the person to
depart from the property and the person refuses or fails to immediately follow
that instruction. It shall not be necessary for a peace officer to request a
person violating division (A) above to depart from the property prior to making
an arrest or issuing a citation if the violating person has previously been
advised of this section by a peace officer.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence in a prosecution under this section
that a person is trespassing if the person is unable to provide evidence of
written and/or verbal permission from the owner, operator or agent of a closed
business at the time of a suspected violation of this section.
   (D)   So as to protect closed businesses in the township from theft,
burglary and property damage, the owner, operator or agent of a closed business
need not be present, nor make a complaint in order for a peace officer to take
enforcement action against a suspected violator of this section.
   (E)   It shall not be necessary for owner, operator or agent of the property
to have previously banned the violating person from the property or request the
violating person depart from the property prior to taking enforcement action
under this section.
   (F)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to 30 days in jail and/or a $250 fine, plus cost of
prosecution.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.41 TRESPASSING AROUND OR ENTERING VACANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A person shall not enter onto the property around any vacant building
or structure without first obtaining permission from the owner, occupant,
agent, or person having immediate control over the building or structure.
   (B)   A person shall not break and enter, or enter without breaking any
vacant building or structure without first obtaining permission to enter from
the owner, occupant, agent, or person having immediate control over the
building or structure.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence in a prosecution under this section
that a person is trespassing or has entered a vacant structure or building
without permission if the person is unable to provide evidence of written and/
or verbal permission from the owner, occupant, agent, or person having
immediate control over the building or structure at the time of the violation.
   (D)   So as to protect vacant structures from theft and destruction,
surrounding properties from nuisance and the public from dangerous buildings,
the owner, occupant, agent, or person having immediate control over the vacant
building or structure need not be present, nor make a complaint in order for a
peace officer to take enforcement action against a suspected violator of this
section.
   (E)   Evidence that a person knew or should have known the building or
structure was vacant includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The physical condition of the structure;
      (2)   The boarding of doors or windows;
      (3)   The presence of signs saying "keep out" or synonymous wording;
      (4)   Overgrown grass, weeds or other vegetation;
      (5)   The presence of signage indicating the property is for sale, rent,
lease or foreclosed upon.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.42 TRESPASSING - PRESUMPTIVE.
   (A)   A person, without permission from the owner or person with lawful
control over such property, shall not:
      (1)   Willfully enter or remain on the lands or premises of another that
has been conspicuously posted with a sign that reads "No Trespassing" or
synonymous wording.
      (2)   Climb or enter upon the roof of any structure or dwelling, provided
that any intended access points to the roof are locked or posted as restricted.
      (3)   Enter onto any land or any portion of a property that is fenced, or
enclosed in a manner to exclude intruders, provided that this section does not
apply if the area enclosed or fenced is the only access point to any structure
upon the property by which a visitor may proceed to contact the owner or
occupant and the person is proceeding, by the most direct route, to the
structure through a gate or other access-point.
      (4)   Enter upon the grounds of any public, private or parochial school
after sunset or before sunrise, except as part of a function, event or activity
authorized by the school.
   (B)   A person who violates this section is presumed to have trespassed. It
shall not be necessary for the person to have previously been warned against
trespassing or banned from the property prior to taking enforcement under this
section.
   (C)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to 30 days in jail and/or a $250 fine, plus cost of
prosecution.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.43 TRESPASSING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or older, shall not enter any public,
private or parochial school building during school days and school hours,
without express permission from an administrator of that building, or unless
they meet the requirements of divisions (C)(3) or (4) below. A warning shall
not be necessary prior to enforcement of this section.
   (B)   A person, 18 years of age or older, shall not enter upon the grounds
of any public, private or parochial school during school days and school hours
unless they meet a requirement of divisions (C)(3) or (4) below. A warning
shall not be necessary prior to enforcement of this section.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A student enrolled in the school;
      (2)   A teacher, staff member, registered volunteer or any other employee
of the school ;
      (3)   A law enforcement officer, firefighter or other emergency worker
acting in the performance of their duties;
      (4)   A person entering the school at a designated entrance and reporting
by the most direct route to the main office of the building in accordance with
district policy;
      (5)   A parent, guardian or other adult responsible for an enrolled
student who is dropping off or picking up the student in accordance with
district policies.
   (D)   A public, private or parochial school may establish policies allowing
for the use of athletic fields or facilities by the public during school days
and school hours by persons who would otherwise be in violation of this
section. If a school elects to establish such a policy, they shall notify the
Sheriff's Department in writing of any activity they are permitting.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ADMINISTRATOR. A superintendent, principal, assistant principal or
a designee for such.
      (2)   SCHOOL DAYS. Days in which classes are held at the school.
      (3)   SCHOOL HOURS. One-half (1/2) hour before the start of classes
through (1/2) hour after the end of classes.
   (F)   Violations and penalties. A person who violates this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and may be imprisoned for not more than 90 days or fined not
more than $500.
(Ord. 157, passed 11-9-2021)
OBSTRUCTING
§ 133.50 OBSTRUCTING LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A person shall not do any of the following:
      (1)   Obstruct, resist, impede, hinder, oppose or fail to obey a lawful
order of a peace officer in the performance of his or her official duties;
      (2)   When operating or occupying a motor vehicle which has been stopped
in response to a peace officer's signal, command or direction, leave or attempt
to leave the scene unless and until the person has received permission to do so
from a peace officer;
      (3)   Escape or attempt to escape while lawfully confined by or in the
custody of a peace officer, or assist in the escape or attempted escape of a
person lawfully confined by or in the custody of a peace officer;
      (4)   Cross beyond any clearly marked police line;
      (5)   Refuse to depart from any area at the direction of a peace officer
who reasonably believes it deemed necessary for the safety of the public, the
preservation of peace, the investigation of a crime, the quelling of a public
disturbance, the movement of traffic or the passage of a parade.
   (B)   A person shall not drive around or pass beyond any law enforcement,
fire or other emergency service vehicle, or any temporary traffic control
device placed by a peace officer that is temporarily stopping or diverting all
traffic moving in that direction, unless directed to do so by a peace officer
or firefighter. This section shall not apply unless the law enforcement, fire
or emergency service vehicle has red, blue or amber emergency lights activated.
   (C)   A person, while stopped or detained for the purpose of investigation
of a violation of any law or ordinance, or while temporarily detained for the
purpose of issuance of a citation, shall not furnish a peace officer with
false, forged, fictitious, or misleading verbal or written information as to
the person's identity. This includes the person's name (and correct spelling
thereof), date of birth, age, address or other identifying information.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.51 DETENTION FOR PURPOSES OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any peace officer authorized to enforce township ordinances who
encounters a person under circumstances that reasonably indicate the person has
committed, is committing, or is about to commit a violation of township
ordinance or a law of this state, may detain the person pursuant to this
section to ascertain the person's identity. Any person so detained shall, upon
request of the officer, state their full name and the proper spelling thereof
or, if the person so elects, communicate it to the officer by other means. A
person detained pursuant to this section may not be compelled to answer any
other inquiry of the officer.
   (B)   Failure to comply with this section shall subject the person to arrest
for a violation of §
133.50(A)(1) of this code for obstructing, resisting or hindering an officer in
the discharge of their duties only if the person refuses or otherwise fails to
comply with the officer's request for identification after the person has been
personally advised by an officer of their obligations to identify themselves
under this section and personally advised that failure to comply subjects them
to arrest.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit any lawful conduct
of a peace officer in questioning a suspect or witness or be construed to
effect any other lawful arrest or detention powers of an officer.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to obviate or effect the
enforcement of any other legal requirement of a person to provide
identification to an officer under other local ordinances or laws of this
state.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Jackson County
Sheriff’s Office.
(Ord. 159, passed 11-9-2021; Am. Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.52 [RESERVED].
§ 133.53 [RESERVED].
§ 133.54 [RESERVED].
§ 133.55 INTERFERING WITH GOVERNMENT FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not offer as legitimate, to any public official or law
enforcement officer, a document of any kind which the person knows to be fake,
counterfeit, forged or altered in any way in order to defraud, mislead, deceive
or otherwise interfere with a government function.
   (B)   A person shall not hinder, obstruct or impede a lawful administrative
inspection of any regulated business, industry, occupation or activity that is
permitted by state statute or local ordinance.
   (C)   A person shall not engage in any profession, trade, occupation or
other activity for which a license is required by any federal, state or local
law without first obtaining, and thereafter maintaining such a license.
   (D)   A person shall not obstruct, impede, hinder, or interfere with a
firefighter, member of the fire department or emergency medical service (EMS)
personnel who are in the performance of their lawful duties in the township.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
JUVENILES
§ 133.60 AIDING DELINQUENTS OR HARBORING RUNAWAYS.
   A person shall not knowingly and willfully aid or abet a child under the age
of 18 years to violate an order of a juvenile court or knowingly and willfully
conceal or harbor juvenile runaways who have taken flight from the custody of
the court, their parents or legal guardian.
(M.C.L.A. § 722.151)
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.61 [RESERVED].
§ 133.62 [RESERVED].
§ 133.63 [RESERVED].
§ 133.64 [RESERVED].
§ 133.65 INTERFERING WITH SCHOOLS AND EVENTS.
   (A)   A person shall not willfully or maliciously act in any manner which
disturbs, interrupts or interferes with the peace, quietude, instruction,
learning or good order of any public, private or parochial school.
   (B)   A student or former student who has been suspended, expelled or
otherwise banned from a public, private or parochial school shall not enter
upon the grounds of the school, into school buildings or upon a vehicle used
for school transportation without permission from an administrator, or his or
her designee, of the school district with authority over the matter.
   (C)   A person shall not invade the playing area of any athletic contest or
exhibition while such contest or exhibition is in progress; provided, that this
section shall not apply to the participants or officials of such contest or
exhibition. This section shall apply to any school athletic contest or
exhibition as well as any organized recreational athletic contest or exhibition
being held at a school facility or other facility open to the public.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§§ 133.66 - 133.79 [RESERVED].
§ 133.80 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent, guardian, or other person having charge, guardianship, custody,
or control of any minor under the age of 18 years shall encourage, knowingly
permit, or by insufficient supervision and control allow the minor to violate
any misdemeanor provision of this code or a state statute substantially
corresponding to any section of the code.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
PENALTIES AND SUPPORTING PROVISIONS
§ 133.95 AUTOMATIC ADOPTION OF AMENDMENTS.
   In adopting any provision of state statute, the township also automatically
adopts any future amendments to the statute which are signed into law.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.96 CITING OFFENSES.
   Offenses cited under provisions of state law adopted by the township shall
be cited by placing "SU" before the appropriate statute (i.e., "SU750.141a").
Adopted provisions which are state civil infractions under state statute shall
be municipal civil infractions under this chapter.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.97 EXEMPTIONS FOR PEACE OFFICERS.
   No provision of this chapter shall apply to a peace officer in the
performance of their duties.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.98 SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Any knife, weapon or device, other than a firearm, used, carried or
possessed in violation of this chapter shall be seized, forfeited to the
township, and disposed of by the law enforcement agency seizing the item.
   (B)   If a firearm is seized for being in violation of any section
substantially corresponding to a state law on firearms, it must be forfeited to
the state in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise noted in the section, any person violating any
provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90
days in jail and/or a fine of $500. Those offenses substantially corresponding
to state statute, that are punishable by up to 93 days in jail and/or a fine of
$500 are punishable in accordance with Public Act 246 of 1945, Section 3, being
M.C.L.A. § 41.183(5). As part of any sentence for a violation of this chapter,
a court may order restitution to any victim in accordance with state law along
with costs of prosecution to the township.
   (B)   If any penalty in this chapter is inconsistent with state law, the
maximum possible penalty under state law shall be established and enforced.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-13-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ZONING CODE
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
153.   FLOOD PLAINS
      
154.   STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE EXCERPTS
      
155.   NUISANCE ELIMINATION
      
156.   CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
      
157.   STRUCTURES UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION
CHAPTER 150: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Enacting clause
   
150.002   Title
   
150.003   Purposes
   
150.004   Scope
   
150.005   Application of regulations
   
150.006   Definitions
   
150.007   Conflict with other laws
   
150.008   Effective date
Establishments of Zoning Districts
   
150.020   Districts established
   
150.021   Official Zoning Map
   
150.022   Interpretation of district boundaries
Zoning District Regulations
   
150.035   Generally
Open Districts
   
150.050   Generally
   
150.051   Agricultural District (AG-1)
Residential Districts
   
150.065   Generally
   
150.066   Rural Non-Farm Residential District (RNF-1)
   
150.067   Suburban Residential Districts (RS-1) and (RS-2)
   
150.068   Urban Residential District (RU-1)
   
150.069   Urban Residential District (RU-2)
   
150.070   Multiple-Family Residential District (RM-1)
   
150.071   Multiple-Family Residential District (RM-2)
   
150.072   Mobile Home Residential District (MH-1)
Office District
   
150.085   Generally
Commercial Districts
   
150.100   Generally
   
150.101   Local Commercial District (C-1)
   
150.102   General Commercial District (C-2)
   
150.103   Highway Service Commercial District (C-3)
Industrial Districts
   
150.115   Generally
   
150.116   Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
150.117   General Industrial District (I-2)
Planned Development Districts
   
150.130   Generally
   
150.131   Planned Residential District (PR-1)
   
150.132   Planned Office District (PO-1)
   
150.133   Planned Commercial District (PC-1)
   
150.134   Planned Industrial District (PI-2)
District Use, Area, Yard, Height, and Bulk Regulations
   
150.145   Permitted and conditional uses
   
150.146   District area, yard, height, and bulk regulations
   
150.147   Compliance with regulations
   
150.148   Yard measurements
   
150.149   Lot width
   
150.150   Height exemptions
   
150.151   Accessory structures
   
150.152   Distance between grouped buildings
   
150.153   Pets
Supplemental Regulations
   
150.165   Purpose of supplemental regulations
   
150.166   Storage of materials
   
150.167   Mobile home and travel trailers
   
150.168   Visibility at intersections
   
150.169   Access to public streets
   
150.170   Flood plains
   
150.171   Home occupation
   
150.172   Fences
   
150.173   Temporary use
   
150.174   Curb cuts and driveways
   
150.175   Swimming pools
   
150.176   Poles
   
150.177   Open space preservation developments
   
150.178   Landscaping requirements
   
150.179   New or conversions condominium projects
   
150.180   Additional development requirements for certain permitted uses
Sign Regulations
   
150.190   Purpose
   
150.191   Definitions
   
150.192   General sign regulations
   
150.193   Permitted signs in all districts
   
150.194   Prohibited signs
   
150.195   Permitted signs in the agricultural district
   
150.196   Permitted signs in residential districts
   
150.197   Permitted signs in commercial, office, and industrial districts
   
150.198   Outdoor advertising signs (off-site signs)
   
150.199   Temporary signs
   
150.200   Electronic message signs
   
150.201   Exempted signs
   
150.202   Nonconforming signs
   
150.203   Permits and fees
   
150.204   Removal of signs
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
150.215   Generally
   
150.216   Plans
   
150.217   Location of off-street parking areas
   
150.218   Parking in residential districts
   
150.219   Off-street parking area design
   
150.220   Collective parking
   
150.221   Determining requirements
   
150.222   Schedule of off-street parking spaces
   
150.223   Exception
   
150.224   Off-street parking in residential areas
Off-Street Loading and Unloading Requirements
   
150.235   Generally
   
150.236   Plans
   
150.237   Off-street loading area design
   
150.238   Off-street loading area space requirements
Conditional Uses
   
150.250   Generally
   
150.251   Authority to grant permits
   
150.252   Conditional use permit application procedure and approval process
   
150.253   Required standards and findings for making determinations
   
150.254   Determination and imposition of conditions
   
150.255   Approval of the permit
   
150.256   Voiding of conditional use permit
   
150.257   Additional development requirements for certain uses
Site Plan Review and Approval
   
150.270   Generally
   
150.271   Uses requiring site plan review and approval
   
150.272   Procedures for submission and review of site plans
   
150.273   Criteria of site plan review
   
150.274   Administrative review
   
150.275   Utilities
   
150.276   Amendment of approved site plan
   
150.277   Exempt buildings, structures, and uses
   
150.278   Modification during construction
   
150.279   Phasing of development
   
150.280   Inspection
   
150.281   Fees
   
150.282   Violations
Nonconformities
   
150.295   Generally
   
150.296   Nonconforming uses of land
   
150.297   Nonconforming structures
   
150.298   Nonconforming uses of structures
   
150.299   Change of tenancy or ownership
   
150.300   Nonconforming lot of record
Performance Standards
   
150.315   Requirements
   
150.316   Plans
   
150.317   Enforcement
Procedures for Evaluating Development Proposals and Development Plan
Requirements
   
150.330   Generally
   
150.331   Procedure for submission and review of a development proposal
application
   
150.332   Information required for development plans
Administration
   
150.345   Purpose
   
150.346   Administration; generally
   
150.347   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
150.348   Public noticing requirements
   
150.349   Zoning compliance permits
   
150.350   Certificate of occupancy; final inspection
   
150.351   Fees, charges, and expenses
   
150.352   Violations; nuisance per se; abatement
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
150.365   Established
   
150.366   Duties of the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
150.367   Variance
   
150.368   Interpretation of zoning ordinance
   
150.369   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals
Amendment Procedures
   
150.380   Initiating amendments and fee
   
150.381   Amendment procedures; generally
   
150.382   Conditional rezonings
   
150.383   Conformance to court decree
   
150.384   Re-application procedures
Planning Commission
   
150.395   Scope, purpose, and intent
   
150.396   Establishment
   
150.397   Appointments and terms
   
150.398   Removal
   
150.399   Conflict of interest
   
150.400   Compensation
   
150.401   Officers and committees
   
150.402   Bylaws, meetings, and records
   
150.403   Annual reports
   
150.404   Authority to make master plan
   
150.405   Zoning powers
   
150.406   Capital improvements program
   
150.407   Subdivision and land division recommendations
 
   
150.999   Penalty
 
   
Appendix A: Lot Coverage
   
Appendix B: Development Plan Review Process
   
Appendix C: Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 ENACTING CLAUSE.
   (A)   An ordinance adopted under authority of, and in accordance with the
provisions of the Township Rural Zoning Act, as amended, Public Act 184 of
1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 - 125.301, to establish comprehensive zoning
regulations for Summit Township Jackson County, Michigan, and to provide for
the administration, enforcement, and amendment thereof, and the repeal of all
ordinances in conflict herewith.
   (B)   The continued administration of this chapter, amendments to this
chapter, and all other matters concerning operation of this chapter shall be
done pursuant to the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110
of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq..
(Ord. -, Article I, § 1.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.002 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Zoning Ordinance
of Summit Township.”
   (B)   The Zoning Map referred to herein is entitled “Zoning Map, Summit
Township.”
(Ord. -, Article I, § 1.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.003 PURPOSES.
   This chapter has been established for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting and protecting public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (B)   Protecting the character and stability of the agricultural,
recreational, residential, commercial, and industrial areas, and promoting the
orderly and beneficial development of the areas;
   (C)   Preventing the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
population by regulating the intensity of use of land and the area of open
spaces surrounding buildings and structures necessary to provide adequate
light, air, and privacy to protect the public health;
   (D)   Lessening and avoiding congestion on public highways and streets;
   (E)   Providing for the needs of agriculture, recreation, residence,
commerce, and industry in future growth to conform with the most advantageous
uses of land, resources, and properties, with reasonable consideration of other
things, the general and appropriate trend and character of land, building, and
population development as studied and recommended by the Planning Commission
and the Township Board;
   (F)   Encouraging the most appropriate use of lands in accordance with their
character and adaptability, and prohibiting uses which are incompatible with
the character of development permitted within specified zoning districts;
   (G)   Conserving the taxable value of land and structures;
   (H)   Conserving the expenditure of funds for public improvements and
services;
   (I)   Protecting against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and odors, heat,
dust, smoke, glare, noise, vibration, radioactivity, and other nuisances and
hazards in the interest of the people; and
   (J)   Provide for the completion, restoration, reconstruction, extension, or
substitution of nonconforming uses.
(Ord. -, Article I, § 1.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   Every building and structure erected, every use of any lot, building,
or structure established, every structural alteration or relocation of an
existing building or structure occurring, and every enlargement of or addition
to an existing use, building, or structure occurring after the effective date
of this chapter shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter, which are
applicable in the zoning district in which the building, or structure, or lot
is located.
   (B)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
or structure on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, provided that
construction shall be completed within 365 days of the effective date and be
subject thereafter to the provisions of §§
150.295 et seq.
   (C)   The adoption of this chapter shall not limit the construction of any
building or structure for which a zoning permit has been obtained prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter even though the
building or structure does not conform to or with the provisions of this
chapter, provided that work shall commence and be carried on within 30 days of
obtaining the permit and be subject thereafter to the provisions of §§
150.295 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article II, § 2.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.005 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations established by this chapter within each zoning district
shall be the minimum regulations for promoting and protecting the public
health, safety, and general welfare and shall not preclude the establishment of
higher or more restrictive standards or requirements for the authorization of
any conditional use permit, where the higher or more restrictive standards or
requirements are found necessary by the Planning Commission to attain the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article II, § 2.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, the present tense includes the future; words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely permissive. The word PERSON includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well
as an individual. The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words INTENDED,
DESIGNED, or ARRANGED to be used or occupied. Any term not defined herein shall
have the meaning of common or standard use.
   ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian
entrance or exit to a property from an abutting property or a public roadway.
   ACCESS CONNECTION. Any driveway, street, road turnout, or other means of
providing for the movement of vehicles to or from the public road system or
between abutting sites.
   ACCESS MANAGEMENT. The process of providing and managing reasonable access
to land development while preserving the flow of traffic in terms of safety,
capacity, and speed on the abutting roadway system.
   ACCESS MANAGEMENT PLAN.
      (1)   A plan establishing the preferred location and design of access for
properties along a roadway or the roadways in a community.
      (2)   It may be a freestanding document, or a part of a community master
or comprehensive plan, or a part of a corridor management plan.
   ACCESS POINT. Points of access such as:
      (1)   The connection of a driveway at the right-of-way line to a road;
and/or
      (2)   A new road, driveway, shared access, or service drive.
   ACCESSORY USE, BUILDING, or STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A detached structure, building, or use on the same lot, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal structures,
building or use.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall be placed on a lot or
parcel of land unless there is an existing principal structure or building on
the lot or parcel.
      (3)   No accessory use shall be carried on or conducted on any lot or
parcel of land unless a principal use exists on the lot or parcel of land.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT DRIVE-IN MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An open space,
area or premises from which persons may view motion picture films, videos, or
performances which are characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or
relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. A structure,
building, or premise in which persons may view people and/or performances and/
or dancing characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or
structure wherein still or motion pictures, videotapes, or similar material is
presented or viewed which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   Any establishment, club, or business by whatever name designated,
which offers or advertises or is equipped or arranged so as to provide as part
of its services, massages, body rubs, alcohol rubs, physical stimulation,
baths, or other similar treatment by any person. See BATHING ESTABLISHMENT,
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT and MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT, AUXILIARY.
      (2)   The following uses shall not be included with the definition of an
ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE ESTABLISHMENT:
         (a)   Establishments which routinely provide the services by a
licensed physician, a licensed chiropractor, a licensed osteopath, a licensed
physical therapist, a licensed practical nurse, or any other similarly licensed
medical professional;
         (b)   Electrolysis treatment by a licensed operator of electrolysis
equipment;
         (c)   Continuing instruction in material or performing arts or in
organized athletic activities;
         (d)   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical clinics, or medical offices;
and
         (e)   Barbershops or beauty parlors and/or salons, which offer massage
to the scalp, the face, the neck or shoulders only.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT SUPPLY STORE. Premises used for the sale,
distribution, display, or storage of books, magazines, periodicals,
advertisements, devices, objects, toys, paraphernalia, or similar materials
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to “specific sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Defined as less than
completely and opaquely covered:
      (1)   Human genitals, pubic regions;
      (2)   Buttock;
      (3)   Female breasts below a point immediately above top of the areola;
and/or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Activities defined as:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, or female breasts.
   AESTHETIC. A standard of exterior architectural appeal and/or neighborhood
harmony.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND. Substantially undeveloped land devoted to the production
of plants and animals useful to humans, including, but not limited to, forage
and sod crops, grains, feed crops, field crops, dairy products, poultry and
poultry products, livestock, herbs, flowers, seeds, grasses, nursery stock,
fruits, vegetables, Christmas trees, and other similar uses and activities.
   AIRPORT.
      (1)   A tract of level land where aircraft can take off and land,
licensed by the Michigan Department of Transportation, Bureau of Aeronautics
under § 86 of the Aeronautics Code of the State of Michigan, as amended, Public
Act 327 of 1945, being M.C.L.A. § 259.86.
      (2)   Usually equipped with a hard surfaced landing strip and may include
appurtenances used or acquired for airport buildings or other airport
facilities, and all other appurtenant rights-of-way or other existing or future
interests.
   AIRPORT APPROACH PLAN and AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN. A plan, or an amendment to a
plan, filed with the township under § 151 of the Aeronautics Code of the State
of Michigan, as amended, Public Act 327 of 1945, being M.C.L.A. § 259.151.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree within the airport hazard area, which
exceeds the height limitations, established by this chapter, or any use of land
or appurtenances within the airport hazard area, which interferes with the safe
use of the airport by aircraft.
   AIRPORT MANAGER. That term as defined in § 10 of the Aeronautics Code of the
State of Michigan, as amended, Public Act 327 of 1945, being M.C.L.A. § 259.10.
   AIRPORT ZONING ACT. Refers to Public Act 23 of 1950 (Extra Session), being
M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq.
   AIRPORT ZONING PLANS. Graphical drawings, which depict height limitations
and land use guidelines within the airport hazard area.
   AIRPORT ZONING REGULATIONS. Airport zoning regulation under the Airport
Zoning Act, as amended, Public Act 23 of 1950 (Extra Session), being M.C.L.A.
§§ 259.431 et seq., for an airport hazard area that lies in whole or part in
the area affected by a zoning ordinance under this act.
   AIRSPACE. Space within the air above the land and water of the state, above
the minimum altitudes of flight prescribed by laws of the state and federal
aviation regulations.
   AGL. Denotes the Above Ground Level of a structure or tree based upon an
overall height of a structure or tree measured from ground level to the top
point of the structure or tree.
   ALLEY. Public or private way not more than 33 feet wide which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   ALTER. Any structural change in the supporting or load-bearing member of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or floor joists.
   AMBIENT NOISE. The background noise in an area or environment, being a
composite of sounds from varying sources at varying distances.
   ANEMOMETER. A device used to measure wind speed.
   ANTIQUE SHOP.
      (1)   Any premises used for the sale or trading of articles, which are
considered antiques.
      (2)   ANTIQUE SHOP does not include “secondhand store.”
   APARTMENT. A dwelling unit in an apartment house arranged, designed, or
occupied as a residence by a single family, individual, or group of
individuals.
   ARCADE.
      (1)   Any place, premises, establishment, or room within a structure
within which are located 10 or more amusement devices.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, AMUSEMENT DEVICES shall mean any
device, machine, or apparatus operated by a patron and which plays, exhibits,
emits, produces, or displays entertainment or amusement in the form of a game,
motion picture, music, performances, or similar entertainment.
      (3)   The term does not include vending machines used to dispense
foodstuffs, toys, or other products for use and consumption, kiddy rides, juke
boxes, bowling alleys, or pool tables.
   ARTISAN PRODUCTION SHOP. A building or portion thereof used for the creation
of original handmade works of art or craft items by more than three but less
than 6 artisans, as either a principal or accessory use.
   ARTIST STUDIO. A building or portion thereof used for the creation of
original handmade works or art
or craft items by no more than 3 artists or artisans, either as a principal or
accessory use.
   AUTO CONVENIENCE MARKET. A place where gasoline, motor oil, lubricants, or
other minor accessories are retailed directly to the public on the premises in
combination with the retailing of items typically found in a convenience market
or supermarket.
   AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE. An automated device that performs banking or
financial functions at a location remote from the controlling financial
institutions.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place that is used or designed to be used for
the retail supply of gasoline and other fuels used for the propulsion of motor
vehicles, kerosene, motor oil, lubricants or grease, including sale of
accessories and services, such as: polishing, washing, cleaning, greasing, and
minor repairs, but not including major repairs, or bumping, grinding, or
refinishing of motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling or disassembling of used motor vehicles
or trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled, partially
dismantled, obsolete, or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   BANQUET HALL; RECEPTION HALL; CONVENTION CENTER. A facility or group of
facilities where a formal assembly or members, representatives, or delegations
of a group, such as a political party, fraternal society, or service club, and
including but not limited to wedding receptions, proms, graduations, birthday,
and other specialized events where food and beverages, including alcohol, may
be served and where the facilities are not open to the general public or have
regular operating hours.
   BASEMENT.
      (1)   The portion of a building, which is partly or wholly below grade
but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor,
is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling.
      (2)   A BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story.
   BATHING ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, room, place, or establishment other
than regularly established and licensed hospital or dispensary wherein are
given baths, vapor baths, electric cabinet baths, electric light baths,
electric tub baths, sponge baths, shower baths, sun baths, tub baths, and mud
baths, mineral baths, Finish, Russian, Swedish, or Turkish baths, slat glows,
massage, fomentation, electric or magnetic treatments, alcohol rubs, and rubs
or massages with or without any other ingredients. See ADULT ENTERTAINMENT -
ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE ESTABLISHMENT, MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT and MASSAGE
ESTABLISHMENT, AUXILIARY.
   BILLBOARD. See OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
   BLOCK. Is comprised of a parcel of land bounded by streets or by a
combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
bulkhead lines or shorelines, or the corporate boundary lines of any village,
city, or township.
   BOARDING HOUSE; BED AND BREAKFAST.
      (1)   A dwelling in which more than 3 persons either individually or as
families are housed or lodged for hire with meals.
      (2)   A BED AND BREAKFAST establishment shall not contain more than 5
sleeping rooms for hire.
   BREW PUB.
      (1)   An establishment, which contains a full service standard restaurant
and alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   This establishment also contains a mini-brewery, as accessory uses
provided that sale of the mini-brewery products are less than 50% of total
sales.
      (3)   This mini-brewery shall be for the brewing of handcrafted, natural
beer intended for retail consumption on the premises and on any premises that
has a license as a standard full-service restaurant owned and operated in its
entirety by the same corporate ownership and management as the brewpub.
   BREWERY, MICRO.
      (1)   A facility for the production and packaging of malt beverages of
low alcoholic content for distribution, retail, or wholesale, on or off
premises, with a capacity of not more than 15,000 barrels per year.
      (2)   The development may include other uses such as a standard
restaurant, bar, or live entertainment as otherwise permitted in the zoning
district.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns, walls,
arches, or other devices and used for the housing, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, or chattels.
   BUILDING AREA. See FLOOR AREA.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest
point of the roof for flat roofs, to the average deck line of mansard roofs,
and to the average height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip, or gambrel
roofs.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The minimum distance which any building must be
located from a street right-of-way or high water line.
   BULK. Is the term used to indicate the size and setback of a building or
structure and the location of it with respect to another building or structure
or to a lot line and includes the following:
      (1)   The size and height of a building or structure;
      (2)   The location of the exterior wall of a building in relation to a
lot line, street, or other building;
      (3)   The floor area of a building in relation to the area of the lot on
which it is located;
      (4)   The open spaces allocated to and surrounding a building; and
      (5)   The amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
   BUSINESS CENTER. Two or more buildings containing stores or 2 or more
buildings containing a combination of stores and offices usually on separate
lots, and sharing a common drive or street and/or off-street parking
facilities, and/or identified by a name for the center.
   CABARET. An establishment where live entertainment is provided, presented,
permitted, or performed, including, but not limited to, dance, comedy,
theatrical, or musical performances, but not including performances which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, or related to, “specified
anatomical areas” (as heretofore defined) for observation by persons or patrons
therein.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN. Priority listing of new or reconditioned
facilities-buildings, roadways, bridges, treatments plants, water supply,
sewerage, or storm water pipes, solid waste disposal site, and the like, needed
by the community over a 6-year period with proposed methods of financing.
   CENTRAL SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal
department, or board duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal,
state, or municipal regulations to the public a sanitary sewerage disposal
system from a central location or plant, but not including septic tanks.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department,
or board duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state, or
municipal regulations to the public a central water system from a central
location or plant.
   COFFEE KIOSK. A retail food business in a freestanding building that sells
coffee, or other beverages, and ready made bakery goods from a drive-through
window to customers seated in their automobiles for consumption off the
premises and that provides no indoor or outdoor seating.
   COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITY or FACILITY. Any one of the following:
      (1)   PROVISIONING CENTER, as that term is defined in the Medical
Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, Public Act 281 of 2016 ("MMFLA");
      (2)   PROCESSOR, as that term is defined in the MMFLA;
      (3)   SECURE TRANSPORTER, as that term is defined in the MMFLA;
      (4)   GROWER, as that term is defined in the MMFLA;
      (5)   SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY, as that term is defined in the MMFLA.
   COMMONS. Those land areas or facilities to which persons have access and
right of use because of ownership or contract; usually refers to areas or
facilities in a housing project owned jointly under condominium law or
accessible to renters in the project.
   COMMUNITY FACILITIES. Buildings or grounds used for publicly provided
functions such as schools, libraries, government centers, and the like.
   CONDITIONAL USE.
      (1)   A use which is subject to conditional approval by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   A CONDITIONAL USE may be granted only when there is a specific
provision in this chapter.
      (3)   A CONDITIONAL USE is not considered to be a nonconforming use.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of property ownership in which living units or other
forms of units in a structure are owned individually but the associated land is
owned in common or jointly with owners of other structures on the site.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 - 559.272,
as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. Any development undertaken under the provisions of
the Michigan Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
- 559.272, as amended, or any other act of the legislature of the State of
Michigan providing for development of property under joint or concurrent
ownership.
   CONDOMINIUM DOCUMENTS. The master deed, recorded pursuant to the Condominium
Act, and any other instrument referred to in the master deed or bylaws, which
affects the rights and obligations of a co-owner in the condominium.
   CONDOMINIUM LOTS. The land in a condominium unit, together with the land in
the adjacent and appurtenant limited common element, if there is such a limited
common element.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The drawings and information prepared in
accordance with § 66 of the Condominium Act.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of a condominium project designed and intended
for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. That term as defined in § 2140 of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, as amended, Public Act 451 of 1994,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.
   CONSOLIDATING MASTER DEED. The final amended master for a contractible or
expandable condominium project or a condominium project containing convertible
land or convertible space, which final amended master deed fully describes the
condominium project as completed.
   CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn in accordance with this
chapter and the Condominium Act.
   CONVENIENCE STORE.
      (1)   Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of frequently or
recurrently needed goods for household consumption, such as prepackaged food
and beverages, and limited household supplies and hardware.
      (2)   CONVENIENCE STORES may include fuel pumps or the selling of fuel
for motor vehicles.
   CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing condominium units
some or all of which were occupied before the filing of a notice of taking
reservations under § 71 of the Condominium Act.
   COORDINATING ZONING COMMITTEE. The coordinating zoning committee for Jackson
County, as described under § 307 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as
amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3307.
   COPY SHOP. A retail establishment that provides duplicating services using
photocopying, blueprint, and offset printing equipment, and may include the
collating and binding of booklets and reports.
   COURT (OPEN SPACE).
      (1)   An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings
and which is bounded on 2 or more sides by the building or buildings.
      (2)   A COURT shall be unoccupied.
   CROSS STREET. The adjacent intersecting street or road.
   CURRENCY EXCHANGE.
      (1)   Any person who engages in the business of cashing checks for a fee.
      (2)   Check cashing businesses do not include a supervised financial
organization; a licensee under the Money Transmitter Act or persons who are
primarily engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property or
services at retail and do not derive more than 5% of their income from check
checking.
   CUTOFF. The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light source,
or luminaries are completely eliminated (cut off) at a specific angle above the
ground.
   CUTOFF ANGLE. The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction of light
rays at the light source and a line perpendicular to the ground from the light
source, above which no light is emitted.
   CUTOFF TYPE LUMINARIES. A unit of illumination with elements such as shield,
reflectors, or refractor panels that direct and cut off the light at a cutoff
angle less than 90 degrees.
   DATA CENTER. A location housing 1 or many large computer systems and related
equipment concerned with building, maintaining, or processing data and
providing other data processing services.
   DAY CAMP.
      (1)   Children’s camp, residential, day, troop, nature, or travel camp
conducted in a natural environment for more than 4 school-age children apart
from their parents, relatives, or legal guardians for 5 or more days in a 14-
day period.
      (2)   A children’s camp provides care and supervision for the same group
of children for usually not more than 12 weeks.
      (3)   Child Care Organizations, as amended, Public Act 116 of 1973, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 - 722.128, Rule 400.11106 effective 1-1-2001.
   dB(A). The sound pressure levels in decibels. Refers to the “a” weighted
scale defined by ANSI, a method for weighting the frequency spectrum to mimic
the human ear.
   DECELERATION LANE. A speed-change lane, including taper, for the purpose of
enabling a vehicle to leave the through traffic lane at a speed equal to or
slightly less than the speed of traffic in the trough lane and to decelerate to
a stop or to execute a slow speed.
   DECIBEL. The unit of measure used to express the magnitude of sound pressure
and sound intensity.
   DECOMMISSIONING. The process of terminating operation and completely
removing a wind facility and all related buildings, structures, foundations,
access roads, and equipment and restoration of the property to a condition that
is reasonably close to the original property prior to construction.
   DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The rights to develop land to the maximum intensity of
development authorized by law.
   DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS ORDINANCE. An ordinance, which may comprise part of a
zoning ordinance, adopted under § 308 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as
amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3308.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the township within which certain uniform regulations
and requirements apply under the provisions of this chapter.
   DOG KENNEL. See KENNEL.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is primarily dependent on providing a drive-way approach or parking
spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicles as
well as within the building or structure.
   DWELLING AREA. The dwelling area of a dwelling unit is composed of sleeping
rooms, kitchen, dining room, den, studio, bathrooms, and family and living
rooms or similar rooms.
   DWELLING (MOBILE HOMES). See MOBILE HOME or TRAILER COACH.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing 3 or more dwelling units
designed for residential use and conforming in all other respects to the
standards set forth in Section 9.1.50 (definition of BULK, this section), for
each of the dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building containing not more than 1
dwelling unit designed for 1 family residential use, which shall comply with
the following standards:
      (1)   Minimum living area of 750 feet for 1- or 2-bedroom dwelling; 150
square feet of additional living area for each additional bedroom; and minimum
floor to ceiling height of 7.5 feet;
      (2)   Minimum exterior widths of 20 feet along side elevations exclusive
of porches not a part of the main living room. Minimum roof pitch to be not
less than 4/12;
      (3)   The dwelling shall be attached to a permanent foundation
constructed on the site, which shall be coextensive with the perimeter of the
structure in compliance with the Township Building Code;
      (4)   No exposed wheels, towing mechanisms, under carriage, or chassis
shall be permitted;
      (5)   The dwelling shall be connected to a public sewer and water supply
or to private sewer and water supply facilities approved by the Jackson County
Health Department before issuance of a certificate of occupancy;
      (6)   The dwelling shall contain storage areas in the basement, attic,
closets, or in an area designed for the storage of personal property, exclusive
of an attached or detached garage designed for the storage of automobiles and
exclusive of the crawl space of a dwelling not possessing a basement. The
storage areas within the dwelling unit shall, in the aggregate, be equal to at
least 15% of the minimum square foot dwelling area requirements of this
chapter;
      (7)   The dwelling shall in all respects comply with the township
building code and all applicable federal
And state laws, regulations, standards, and codes, including, but not limited
to, electrical, plumbing, energy, fire and safety laws, regulations, standards,
and codes;
      (8)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, mobile homes shall in
all respects comply with the standards for mobile home construction and safety
as contained in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) regulations then in effect as adopted pursuant to the provisions of
Public Law 93-383, being the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1437 et
seq., as amended; and
      (9)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located in
a licensed mobile home park or mobile home subdivision except to the extent
required by state or federal laws and regulations.
   DWELLING, ROW. A row of 3 to 6 attached 1-family dwellings not more than 2-
1/2 stories in height nor more than 2 rooms deep, with separate housekeeping
and cooking facilities for each.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing not more than 2 separate
dwelling units designed for residential use and conforming in all other
respects to the standards set forth in Section 9.1.50 (definition of BULK, this
section), for each of the dwelling units.
   EASEMENT. Any private or dedicated public way other than a street, providing
a secondary means of access to a property having a right-of-way not less than
20 feet, may include a utility access.
   EGRESS. The exit of vehicular traffic from abutting properties to a street
or road.
   ENTRANCE RAMP. A roadway connecting a feeder road/street with a limited
access highway and used for access onto the limited access highway.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments, commissions, or boards, or by
other government agencies of underground, surface, or overhead gas, electric,
steam, or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
communication, supply or disposal system, dams, weirs, culverts, bridges,
canals, locks, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, towers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, or
signs and fire hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by the public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, or
other government agencies, or for the public health, safety, or general
welfare, but not including buildings other than those buildings which are
primarily enclosures or shelters, for the installed central services equipment,
but including buildings or structures owned or leased by Summit Township.
   EXCAVATION OF GRAVEL, SAND, TOPSOIL, OR EARTH. Premises from which any rock,
gravel, sand, topsoil, or earth in excess of 50 cubic yards in any calendar
year is excavated or removed for the purpose of disposition away from the
premises except excavation in connection with the construction of a building or
within public highway rights-of-way.
   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional land may
be added in accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FAMILY. An individual or a group of 2 or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, including foster children and servants, together with
not more than 3 additional persons not related by blood, marriage, or adoption,
living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
   FAMILY AND GROUP DAY-CARE HOMES. Those terms as defined in § 1 of Child Care
Organizations, as amended, Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 -
722.128, and only apply to the bona fide private residence of the operator of
the family or group day-care home.
      (1)   A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME licensed or registered under Child Care
Organizations, as amended, Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 -
722.128, shall be considered a residential use of property for the purpose of
zoning and a permitted use in all residential zones, including those zoned for
single-family dwellings, and shall not be subject to a special use or
conditional use permit or procedure different from those required for other
dwellings or similar density in the same home.
      (2)   A GROUP DAY-CARE HOME licensed or registered under Child Care
Organizations, as amended, Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 -
722.128, shall be issued a special use permit, conditional use permit, or
similar permit if the group day-care home meets the following standards:
         (a)   Is located not closer than 1,500 feet to any of the following:
            1.   Another licensed group-day care home;
            2.   Another adult foster care small group home or large group home
licensed under the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, as amended, Public
Act 218 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 et seq.;
            3.   A facility offering substance abuse treatment and
rehabilitation service to 7 or more people licensed under Article 6, Substance
Abuse, of the Public Health Code, as amended, Public Act 368 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.; and/or
            4.   A community correction center, resident home, halfway home, or
other similar facility which houses an inmate population under the jurisdiction
of the department of correction.
         (b)   Has appropriate fencing for the safety of the children in the
group day-care home as determined by the township;
         (c)   Maintains the property consistent with the visible
characteristics for the neighborhood;
         (d)   Does not exceed 16 hours of operation during a 24-hour period.
The township may limit but not prohibit the operation of a group day-care home
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
         (e)   Meets regulations, if any, governing signs used by a group day-
care home to identify itself; and
         (f)   Meets regulations, if any, requiring a group day-care home
operator to provide off street parking accommodation for his or her employees.
      (3)   A licensed or registered family or group day-care home that has
operated prior to the effective date of the amendatory act that added this
section is not required to comply with the requirements of this definition.
      (4)   This definition shall not prevent an inspection of a family or
group day-care home for the home’s compliance with the township’s ordinance and
enforcing the ordinance; if the ordinance is not more restrictive for the home
than Child Care Organizations, as amended, Public Act 116 of 1973, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 - 722.128, within 1,500 feet of the licensed or registered
group day-care home will not affect any subsequent special use permit to a
licensed or registered group day-care home that does not meet the standards
listed.
      (5)   The distances specified shall be measured along a road, street, or
place maintained by this state or a political subdivision of this state and
generally open to use by the public as a matter of right for the purpose of
vehicular traffic, not including an alley.
   FARM MARKET. Any on-farm location established in accordance with local
ordinance and operated in compliance with Public Act 92 of 2000, the Michigan
Food Law, where farmers may transport and sell fruits, vegetables or other
agricultural products to the public. On-farm markets may operate
intermittently, but for licensing purposes will be considered a permanent
operation.
   FARMERS MARKET. A public and recurring assembly of farmers or their
representative transporting and selling food and other agricultural products
they have produced directly to consumers in a location established in
accordance with local ordinance and operated in compliance with Public Act 92
of 2000, the Michigan Food Law. Farmers market vendors may operate
intermittently, but for licensing purposes will be considered a permanent
operation. In addition, the market may include a variety of other vendors as
determined by market management.
   FARMLAND PRESERVATION ACT. Part 361, Farmland and Open Space Preservation,
of the Natural Resources and Environmental Preservation Act, as amended, Public
Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., permits certain property
owners to contract with state government to retain land in agriculture or open
space in exchange for tax advantages and immunity to special assessments not of
benefit to the property under current use conditions.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal floor areas of the several
stories of a building, as measured to the exterior face of the exterior walls,
plus that area, similarly measured of all other stories that are accessible by
a fixed stairway, ramp, escalator, or elevator; including all enclosed porches
and balconies, and all stairways, breezeways, storage area, recreational rooms,
boiler rooms, and other areas within or contiguous to the structure; and the
measurement shall include the floor space of all accessory buildings measured
similarly.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO.
      (1)   The ratio of the floor area of a building to the area of the lot on
which it is located calculated by dividing the floor area by the lot area and
expressing it as a percentage.
      (2)   For example, a floor area ratio of 80% is specified and the lot
area is 10,000 square feet, the maximum permitted floor area on the lot is
8,000 square feet.
      (3)   The number of stories being optional, the building area may be
4,000 square feet for each of 2 stories, 2,000 square feet for each of 4
stories, or 1,000 square feet for each of 8 stories.
   FOOTCANDLE. A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of
which are 1 foot from a uniform point source of 1 candle.
   FREEWAY. A divided highway of not less than 2 lanes in each direction to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or the public have no right of
ingress or egress to, from, or across the highway, except at points determined
by or as otherwise provided by the authorities responsible therefor (Public Act
106 of 1972).
   FRONTAGE ROAD or FRONT SERVICE DRIVE. A local street/road or private road
typically located in front of principal buildings and parallel to an arterial
for service to abutting properties for the purpose of controlling access to the
arterial.
   GARAGE AND YARD SALES.
      (1)   An occasional sale of household goods and personal property.
      (2)   Signs advertising sales shall not be posted for more than 3
consecutive days either on the property where the sale is occurring or on any
other property.
      (3)   See §
110.40 for additional requirements.
   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. Any building available to the public operated from gain
and which is used for storage, rental, greasing, washing, servicing, repairing,
and or adjusting of automobiles or other motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or structure used principally for
storage of automobiles and for other incidental storage purpose only.
   GLARE. Light emitting from luminaries with an intensity great enough to
reduce a viewers’ ability to see and, in extreme cases, causing momentary
blindness.
   GOVERNING BODY. The official group vested with the power to adopt an
ordinance.
   GRADE. The degree of rise or inclination (slope, fall, and the like)
compared with level.
   GREENWAY. A contiguous or linear open space; including habitats, wildlife
corridors, and trails, that links parks, nature reserves, cultural features, or
historic sites with each other, for recreation and conservation purposes.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation that is carried on in the home by resident
members of the family or living unit, being clearly incidental and secondary to
the principal residential use. For the purpose of this chapter, there are 2
types of home occupations.
      (1)   Type 1 home occupation.
         (a)   A type 1 home occupation is a profession or occupation that is
clearly a customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling
unit, and which does not negatively impact the residential character of the
neighborhood in which the home occupation is located.
         (b)   Type 1 home occupations must meet the criteria established in §
150.171(B)(1) in order to ensure that no evidence is exhibited that a business
is being conducted from the premises.
      (2)   Type 2 home occupation.
         (a)   A type 2 occupation is a profession or occupation that is
clearly a customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling
unit and which does not negatively impact the residential character of the
neighborhood in which the home occupation is located, but which displays
evidence that a business is being conducted from the premises.
         (b)   Type 2 home occupations require a conditional use permit
including additional development requirements for certain uses located in §
150.257.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building or structure or part thereof, occupied as the more
or less temporary abiding place of individuals, in which the rooms are usually
occupied singly for hire and in which rooms no provisions for cooking are made,
and in which building there may be a general kitchen and/or public dining room
(s) for the accommodation of the occupants.
   HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from the ground level to the center of the
turbine hub.
   IMPROVEMENTS.
      (1)   Those features and actions associated with a project that are
considered necessary by the body or official granting zoning approval to
protect natural resources or the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of a local unit of government and future users or inhabitants of the proposed
project or project area, including roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks,
screening, and drainage.
      (2)   IMPROVEMENTS do not include the entire project that is the subject
of zoning approval.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A group of 2 or more buildings, usually on separate lots,
for industrial, research, or warehousing uses, with a common street or driveway
system, developed according to an overall plan for the park, and identified by
a name for the park.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. General reference is to the network of physical systems such
as streets, water supply, sewerage, and storm drains that are essential in
urban areas.
   INGRESS. Used to refer to traffic outlets from public roadways to private
property or entrances to buildings or other facilities.
   INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT. The height, bulk, area, density, setback, use, and
other similar characteristics of development.
   INTERSECTION. The location where 2 or more roadways cross at grade without a
bridge.
   INTERSECTION SIGHT DISTANCE.
      (1)   The sight distance provided at intersections to allow the drivers
of stopped vehicles a sufficient view of the intersection roadways to decide
when to enter the intersection roadway or to cross it.
      (2)   The time required is the sum of the perception reaction time plus
the time to accelerate and cross or enter the major roadway traffic stream.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. A highway officially designated as a part of the
national system of interstate and defense highways by the Department of
Transportation and approved by the appropriate authority of the federal
government (Highway Advertising Act, as amended, Public Act 106 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 et seq.).
   JUNKYARD. A place, structure, parcel, or use of land where junk, waste,
discard, salvage, or similar materials such as old iron or other metal, wood,
lumber, glass, paper, rags, cloth, leather, rubber, bagging, cordage, barrels,
containers, and the like, are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including auto wrecking yards, inoperative machines,
used lumber yards, house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment
and including establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of salvaged
machinery and for the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged materials, for
any 30 consecutive days.
   JUNK VEHICLES, REPAIR OF. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this code.
      (1)   COSTS. The expense of removing, storing, or selling a junked
vehicle.
      (2)   HOBBY. The repairing, reconditioning, or rebuilding of all
vehicles, which is done for personal enjoyment or entertainment only, with no
profits or compensation or reimbursements of any kind involved.
      (3)   JUNK VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for highway
travel under its own power which is not capable of the travel in its existing
mechanical condition, or any dismantled, partially dismantled, discarded,
wrecked, demolished, or partially demolished vehicle; or any vehicle designed
for highway travel not bearing a current license plate or license certificate.
      (4)   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power
designed to travel along the ground, in the air or through water by use of
wheels, treads, runners, slides, wings, or hulls and to transport persons or
property or pull nonself-propelled vehicles or machinery and includes, without
limitation, automobile, airplane, boat, truck, trailer, motorcycle, motor
scooter, moped tractor, buggy and wagon.
      (5)   FULLY ENCLOSED STRUCTURE. Any commercial or residential garage and
any other human-made or natural barrier, which effectively prevents viewing of
the area screened and its contents from adjacent walkways, roadways, or alleys.
   KENNEL.
      (1)   Any lot or premises on which 3 or more dogs 6 months of age or
older are kept either permanently or temporarily for boarding as a primary use
and not incidental to another primary use such as a veterinarian clinic or dog
groomer.
      (2)   Providing that no more than 2 dogs 6 months of age or older shall
be kept permanently or temporarily on any lot or premises located in a
residential district.
   LAND SPLITS/DIVISIONS.
      (1)   Actions that divide a parcel into additional smaller parcels.
      (2)   When acreage is involved, the reference is usually to part of the
larger parcel for a building site; in subdivisions it refers to the division of
a lot with parts attached to adjacent lots.
      (3)   See Land Division Act, as amended, Public Act 591 of 1996, being
M.C.L.A. § 560.101, and
Chapter 151 of this code.
   LAND USE GUIDANCE ZONE. An area or zone in which certain types of land uses
are recommended due to noise, vibrations, fumes, dust, fuel particles, and
other effects that may be caused by the operation of aircraft landing at, or
taking off from, or operating as an airport.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The county board of commissioners of a county, the board
of trustees of a township, the council of a city or village, or other similar
duly elected representative body of a county, township, city, or village.
   LIGHT FIXTURES (SPACING AND HEIGHT).
      (1)   Spacing of standards shall be equal to approximately 4 times the
height of the standard.
      (2)   The maximum height of standards shall not exceed the maximum
building height permitted, or 25 feet, whichever is less.
      (3)   The height and shielding of lighting standards shall provide proper
lighting without hazard to drivers or nuisance to residents.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. The shining of light produced by a luminary beyond the
boundaries of the property on which it is located
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET.
      (1)   Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used and accessible to
the vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
      (2)   Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-
street parking space in computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. A county, township, city, or village.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area; and to provide the yards and other
open spaces as herein required.
      (2)   The lot may consist of a single lot of record; a portion of a lot
of record; a combination of contiguous lots of record, or contiguous portions
of lots of record; or a parcel of land described by metes and bounds, a lot or
portion thereof and a parcel described by metes and bounds, or 2 or more
parcels described by metes and bounds which are combined into a single legal
description and taxable entity.
      (3)   Provided further, that where a lot is made up of more than 1 lot,
parcels, or combinations of lots and parcels no portion of the lot shall
thereafter be sold or conveyed or any interest created therein if the remaining
parcel is of insufficient size to meet the minimum zoning requirements for use,
coverage, and area.
   LOT AREA. The area within the lot lines, but excluding that portion in a
road or street right-of-way.
   LOT CORNER. A parcel of land at the junction of and fronting or abutting on
2 or more intersecting streets.
   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures. See
Appendix A of this chapter.
   LOT DEPTH. The depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between
the midpoints of straight lines in front and the rearmost points of the side
lot lines in the rear.
   LOT FRONTAGE.
      (1)   The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest the
street.
      (2)   For purposes of front yard setback requirements for corner and
through lots the front yards shall be determined by reference to the street
faced by the structure on the lot or that portion of the lot abutting the legal
address of the lot, and once the front yard is determined it shall remain the
same thereafter.
      (3)   For the purpose of determining minimum lot width, the frontage of
only 1 street shall be used.
      (4)   A lot abutting a lake, stream, river, or public body of water may
at the election of the owner be considered to front on the water, and the
election shall thereafter be binding on the owner and his or her heirs,
successors, and assigns for purposes of determining setback requirements and
lot frontage.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision and is shown on a map
thereof which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of
Jackson County, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the deed to which has
been recorded in the office.
   LOT, THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on 2
parallel or approximately parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH.
      (1)   The width of a lot shall be the horizontal distance between the
side lot lines measured at 90 degrees to the lot depth, provided that the line
used to measure lot width shall be located as close as possible to the rear
line of the required front yard, and provided further that no part of the
measuring line shall not include any portion thereof in a street right-of-way
or a street or drive easement.
      (2)   The frontage of a lot on a street right-of-way or a street or
easement shall not be less than 80% of the required lot width, except in the
case of lots on a turning circle of a cul-de-sac street.
      (3)   On a cul-de-sac, the front yard line shall be at the point where
80% of the required width is reached along a line measured parallel to the
tangent to the deepest protrusion of the arc describing the road/street right-
of-way through the front of the property.
      (4)   In no case shall the distance between the above described tangent
and front yard line be less than the required front yard setback for the zoning
district in question.
      (5)   The above described tangent may not be less than 30 feet in width
at the road/street right-of-way line.
   LUMINAIRE. A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts.
   MANUFACTURING. The process of making products by hand, by machinery, or by
other agency, often with the provision of labor and the use of machinery.
   MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. A service roadway parallel to a feeder road/street;
and which provides access to abutting properties and protection from through
traffic.
   MARIHUANA. That term as defined in § 7106 of the Michigan Public Health
Code, 1978 PA 368, M.C.L.A. § 333.7106.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, room, place, or establishment other
than a regularly licensed and established hospital or dispensary where non-
medical or non-surgical manipulative exercises or devices are practiced upon
the human body manually or otherwise by any person other than a licensed
physician, surgeon, dentist, occupational and physical therapist, chiropractor,
or osteopath with or without the use of therapeutic, electrical, mechanical, or
bathing devices and shall also include any bathing establishment. See ADULT
ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE ESTABLISHMENT, BATHING ESTABLISHMENT and
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT, AUXILIARY.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT, AUXILIARY. Any building or tenant space in which any
person, firm, association, or corporation, or any person employed by the
person, firm, association, or corporation, engages or is permitted to engage in
the practice of massage as an accessory use customary and clearly incidental to
a principal business and use, including but not limited to services offered by
a hotel, health club or spa, or beauty salon. See ADULT ENTERTAINMENT - ADULT
PHYSICAL CULTURE ESTABLISHMENT, BATHING ESTABLISHMENT, and MASSAGE
ESTABLISHMENT.
   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project to
which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the bylaws for the
project and the condominium subdivision plan for the project and all other
information required by M.C.L.A. § 559.108.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA. That term as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.26423.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA CAREGIVER GROW OPERATION. An establishment used by 1
registered primary caregiver for the purposes of the growing and dispensing of
medical marihuana outside the privacy of a personal dwelling for up to 5
qualifying patients (as well as the caregiver if he or she is also a qualifying
patient), but where there is no consumption of marihuana on the premises.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA HOME USE. A dwelling where a qualifying patient grows or
uses medical marihuana for personal consumption in the privacy of their own
dwelling, and/or where a registered primary caregiver, serving not more than 1
qualifying patient who resides with the primary caregiver, grows or distributes
medical marihuana for the qualifying patient in the privacy of the primary
caregiver’s own dwelling, and is allowed as a use by right wherever dwellings
are permitted.
   MEDIUM VOLTAGE CABLE. 34.5 kV lines which provide electricity to homes.
   MEZZANINE. An intermediate floor in any story occupying not to exceed 1/3 of
the floor area of the story.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER (MET TOWER). Includes the tower, base plate, anchors,
guy wires, equipment housing, and hardware, anemometers (wind speed
indicators), wind direction vanes, booms to hold equipment for anemometers and
vanes, data loggers, instrument wiring, and any telemetry devices that are used
to monitor or transmit wind speed and wind flow characteristics over a period
of time for either instantaneous wind information or to characterize the wind
resource at a given location.
   MICHIGAN MEDICAL MARIHUANA ACT (MMMA).  The MMMA (M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et
seq.) is an initiation of legislation to allow under state law the medical use
of marihuana; provide protections for the medical use of marihuana; and provide
for a system of registry identification cards for qualifying patients and
primary caregivers. The MMMA is supplemented by administrative rules
promulgated by the Michigan Department of Community Health (R 333.101 et seq.).
The MMMA defines the following specific categories of people;
      (1)   PRIMARY CAREGIVER. An individual, as defined by the MMMA, and is
authorized by and registered through the Michigan Department of Community
Health (MDCH) to grow and distribute medical marihuana to qualified patients.
The primary caregiver must have a valid registry card.
      (2)   QUALIFYING PATIENT. An individual, as defined by the MMMA, that has
been diagnosed by a licensed physician, as defined by the MMMA, as having a
medical condition alleviated by the use of medical marihuana, and who is
registered through the Michigan Department of Community Health (MDCH) to grow
and/or consume medical marihuana. The qualifying patient must have a valid
registry card.
   MIXED USE. A land use where more than 1 classification of land use
(residential, commercial, and recreational) permitted within a zoning district
is combined on a lot or within a structure.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER COACH.
      (1)   A detached portable single-family dwelling prefabricated on its own
chassis and intended for long-term occupancy.
      (2)   The unit contains sleeping accommodations, flush toilet, tub or
shower, eating and living quarters.
      (3)   It is designed to be transported on its own wheels or flatbed
arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete dwelling without
permanent foundation and connected to existing utilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.
      (1)   Referred to also as PARK in this chapter.
      (2)   Any parcel of land intended and designed to accommodate more than 1
mobile home for living use which is offered to the public for that purpose; and
any structure, facility, area, or equipment used or intended for use incidental
to the living use.
   MOBILE HOME SITE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
accommodation of a mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home site designed for the placement
of a mobile home, appurtenant structures, or additions, including expandable
rooms, enclosed patios, garages or structural additions.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A legally platted residential subdivision
accommodating mobile homes.
   MODIFICATION. Any change to a small wind energy system that materially
alters the size, type or location of a small wind energy system. Like-kind
replacements shall not be considered to be a modification.
   NACELLE. The encasement which houses all of the generating components, gear
box, drive train, and other equipment.
   NET METERING. The difference between the electricity supplied to a customer
over the electric distribution system and the electricity generated by the
customer’s wind energy system that is fed back into the electric distribution
system over a billing period and is a special metering and billing agreement
between the utility company and the customer.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING, STRUCTURE. A structure or building lawfully
constructed that does not conform to the requirements of the district in which
it is situated.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A structure or use that is not permitted in the zoning
district in which it is located, but which is permitted to continue with
restrictions because the structure or use predates the designation of the zone.
   NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION. The notice required by M.C.L.A. § 559.171, to be
filed with Summit Township and other agencies.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property, or
endangers personal health or safety.
      (2)   Zoning is generally intended to separate uses that constitute a
nuisance to adjoining properties, but zoning law cannot be invoked to abate all
nuisances.
   OCCUPIED BUILDING. A residence, school, hospital, church, public library,
business, or other building used for public gatherings.
   OFFICE PARK. Groups of 2 or more buildings, on individual or 1 undivided
parcel, with a common street or driveway system, developed according to an
overall plan for the park, and identified by a name for the park.
   OFFICES.
      (1)   Workplace for occupations of an executive, administrative,
professional, or similar nature.
      (2)   Those occupations include, but are not limited to, architects,
engineers, surveyors, lawyers, accountants, insurance providers, and real
estate brokers.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. A land surface or facility providing vehicular
parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering so as to
provide access for entrance and exit for the parking of more than 2
automobiles.
   OPEN SPACE.
      (1)   Land area that has not been developed.
      (2)   Usually refers to land in the countryside but may be used to
include parks, undeveloped areas in planned developments or other large
projects.
   OTHER ELIGIBLE LAND. Land that has a common property line with agricultural
land from which development rights have been purchased and is not divided from
that agricultural land by a state or federal limited access highway.
   PARCEL. A piece or tract of land in single ownership.
   PARKING SPACE.
      (1)   A unit of a parking area provided for the parking of 1 automobile.
      (2)   This space shall have an area of not less than 200 square feet, and
shall be exclusive of curves, driveways, aisles, or entrances giving access
thereto and shall be fully accessible for the storage or parking of permitted
vehicles.
   PARKWAY.
      (1)   The area between the street or road right-of-way (ROW) and the
pavement edge is called the parkway.
      (2)   Public sidewalks, where they exist, are located in this area.
   PDR RIGHTS. A program under § 507 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as
amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3507, for the purchase of
development rights by a township.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A regulation that admits or denies a particular use in
a zoning district on the basis of the proposed use’s capability to meet noise,
air pollution, vibration, heat, visual impact, or other standards, reference §
150.315 et seq.
   PERSON. A natural person, company, partnership, profit or non-profit
corporation, limited liability company, or any joint venture for a common
purpose.
   PHOTOVOLTAICS (PV). A technology that converts light directly into
electricity.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   A self-contained development, usually with a mixture of housing
types, in which subdivision and zoning regulations apply to the entire project
rather than to separate lots.
      (2)   A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT may also include mixed uses and can apply to
commercial, office, or industrial developments.
   POOL OR BILLIARD HALL. An establishment wherein the substantial or
significant portion of all usable area is devoted to the use of pool or
billiard tables.
   POPULATION. The population according to the most recent federal decennial
census or according to a special census conducted pursuant to § 7 of the Glenn
Steill State Revenue Sharing Act of 1971, as amended, Public Act 140 of 1971,
being M.C.L.A. § 141.907, whichever is the more recent.
   POWER SWITCHYARD. The structure needed to tie the solar energy facilities to
electric transmission lines.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER. A person qualified under M.C.L.A. § 333.26423(g) to
assist with a patient’s medical use of marihuana.
   PRIMARY HIGHWAY. A highway, other than an interstate highway or freeway,
officially designated as a part of the federal aid primary system as defined in
23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended by the Department of Transportation approved by the
appropriate authority of the Federal government (Highway Advertising Act, as
amended, Public Act 106 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 et seq.).
   PRIVATE STREET/ROAD. As defined by §§
90.01 et seq. and or the Jackson County Road Commission Standards for a Public
Street.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or board duly
authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state, or municipal
regulations, to the public: electricity, gas, steam, communications, telegraph,
transportation, water, or sanitary or storm sewage facilities.
      (2)   Providing further that telecommunication facilities shall not be
considered a public utility under this chapter.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, telecommunication facilities
shall not be considered a public utility, or essential service, and
telecommunication towers, antennas, or monopolies shall be subject to all of
the rules, regulations, and provisions of §
150.257.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT. A REGISTERED QUALIFYING PATIENT or a VISITING QUALIFYING
PATIENT as those terms are defined by M.C.L.A. § 333.26421, et seq.
   QUARRY.
      (1)   Any pit, excavation, or mining operation for the purpose of
searching for or removing for commercial use, any earth, sand, gravel, clay,
stone, slate, marble, or other nonmetallic mineral in excess of 50 cubic yards
in any calendar year, but shall not include an oil well or excavation
preparatory to the construction of a building or structure.
      (2)   See §
150.257.
   RELIGIOUS LAND USE AND INSTITUTIONALIZED PERSONS ACT OF 2000.
      (1)   General rule. No government shall impose or implement a land use
regulation in a manner that imposes a substantial burden on the religious
exercise of a person, including a religious assembly or institution, unless the
government demonstrates that imposition of the burden on that person, assembly,
or institution:
         (a)   Is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and/or
         (b)   Is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling
governmental interest.
      (2)   Scope of application. Applies in any case which:
         (a)   The substantial burden is imposed in a program or activity that
receives federal financial assistance, even if the burden results from a rule
of general applicability;
         (b)   The substantial burden affects, or removal of that substantial
burden would affect, commerce with foreign nations, among the several states,
or with Indian tribes, even if the burden results from a rule of general
applicability; and/or
         (c)   The substantial burden is imposed in the implementation of a
land use regulation or system of land use regulations, under which a government
makes, or has in place formal or informal procedures or practices that permit
the government to make, individualized assessments of the proposed uses for the
property involved.
   RESORT. A resort shall mean a place providing recreation and entertainment,
especially to vacationers and tourists, which may include lodging facilities.
   RESTAURANT, COMMERCIAL/RECREATION.
      (1)   Any establishment, which provides as a principal use the
combination of family-oriented recreation and on-premises dining, is clearly
accessory or incidental to the operation of the other.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, RECREATION may include, but is
not limited to: television and motion pictures; sound and sight systems;
mechanical and/or electronic operated games; animated mechanical devices and/or
rides; and live entertainment.
   RIDING ACADEMY. Any establishment where horses are kept for riding, driving,
or stabling for compensation or incidental to the operation of any club,
association, ranch, or similar establishment.
   RIGHT TO FARM ACT. A farm or farm operation shall not be found to be a
public or private nuisance if the farm or farm operation conforms to generally
accepted agricultural and management practices and if the farm or farm
operation existed before a change in the land use or occupancy of land within 1
mile of the boundaries of the farm land (Michigan Right to Farm Act, as
amended, Public Act 93 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 - 286.474).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A general term denoting land, property, or interest therein,
usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to transportation purposes.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary operation established in accordance with local
ordinance and operated in compliance with Public Act 92 of 2000, the Michigan
Food Law, where an individual farmer may transport and sell fruits, vegetables
or other agricultural products to the public.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling in which more than 3 persons either individually
or as families are housed or lodged for hire without meals.
   SCADA TOWER (SUPERVISORY CONTROL AND DATA ACQUISITION SYSTEM). See MET
TOWER.
   SCREEN.
      (1)   A structure providing enclosure, such as a fence, and a visual
barrier between the area enclosed and the adjacent property.
      (2)   A SCREEN may also be a non-structure consisting of shrubs, or other
growing materials.
   SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE, RETAIL SALES.
      (1)   Retail sales of previously used merchandise, such as clothing,
household furnishings or appliances, and sports/recreational equipment.
      (2)   This classification does not include secondhand motor vehicles,
parts, or accessories.
      (3)   See §§
110.01 et seq.
   SETBACK. The minimum distances that a building must be back from a lot line
or right-of-way.
   SHADOW FLICKER. An alternating change in light intensity which is caused by
the moving blades of a wind turbine casting a shadow(s) on the ground and
stationary objects such as windows of a dwelling.
   SHOPPING CENTER.
      (1)   A group of commercial establishments, primarily retail uses, that
are compatible with each other and are mutually supportive, in 1 or more
buildings, on a site that is planned, developed, and managed as 1 operating
unit, with common driveways, parking areas, identification signs, and other
common facilities and services.
      (2)   See sign definitions §
150.191.
   SITE BUILT. A structure constructed at the site but may include some pre-
assembled parts.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium development containing residential,
commercial, office, industrial, or other structures or improvements for uses
permitted in the zoning district in which located, in which each co-owner owns
exclusive rights to a volume of space within which a structure or structures
may be constructed, herein defined as a condominium unit, as described in the
master deed.
   SITE PLAN. The documents and drawings required by the zoning ordinance to
insure that a proposed land use or activity is in compliance with local
ordinances and state and federal statutes.
   SITE PLAN REVIEW.
      (1)   A review by the Zoning Board and the Township Board of certain
buildings and structures that can be expected to have a significant impact on
natural resources, traffic patterns, and on adjacent land usage.
      (2)   See §§
150.270 et seq.
   SMALL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY. Accessory to a principal residential or small
business use and converts sunlight into electricity by photovoltaics (PV) or
experimental solar technologies. The sale and distribution of excess available
energy shall be incidental and not the primary purpose of the facility. For
ground-mounted facilities, the total area covered by solar arrays shall not
exceed 10,000 square feet.
   SMALL STRUCTURE-MOUNTED WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine (horizontal or vertical axis) and associated
control or conversion electronics which has a rated capacity of not more than 5
kW and is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power.
   SMALL TOWER-MOUNTED ON-SITE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion
system consisting of a wind turbine (horizontal or vertical axis), a tower, and
associated control or conversion electronics which has a rated capacity of not
more than 100 kW and is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption of
utility power.
   SOUND PRESSURE. Average rate at which sound energy is transmitted through a
unit area in a specified direction. The pressure of the sound measured at a
receiver.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure mapped to a logarithmic scale and
reported in decibels (dB).
   SPAS/TANNING SALONS. Facility offering indoor tanning and/or physical
fitness.
   SPECIAL USE. Use of a parcel approved by the designated municipal body
(planning commission or legislative body) in a manner that conforms to specific
standards for that use in the zoning district in which the parcel is located.
   SPECIALLY DESIGNATED DISTRIBUTOR’S ESTABLISHMENT. A specially designated
distributor’s establishment is a retail establishment, consisting of less than
15,000 gross square feet of usable retail space, or any retail establishment
where more than 10% of the usable retail space is utilized for the distribution
of alcoholic liquor, licensed by the State Liquor Control Commission to
distribute alcoholic liquor, other than wine under 20% alcohol by volume, and
beer, in the original package for consumption off the premises.
   SPECIALLY DESIGNATED MERCHANT’S ESTABLISHMENT. A specially designated
merchant’s establishment is a retail establishment consisting of less than
15,000 gross square feet of usable retail space, or any retail establishment
where more than 10% of the usable retail space is utilized for the distribution
of alcoholic liquor, licensed by the State Liquor Control Commission to sell
beer and/or wine for consumption off the premises.
   STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A structure constructed for residential
purposes that is licensed by the state under the Adult Foster Care Facility
Licensing Act, as amended, Public Act 218 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 et
seq., or Child Care Organizations, as amended, Public Act 116 of 1973, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 - 722.128, and provides residential services for 6 or fewer
persons under 24-hour supervision or care.
   STORY. The portion of a building including between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it
then the space between any floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, ½. A story under the gable, hip, or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least 2 opposite exterior walls are not more than 2 feet above the
floor of the story and the floor area shall not exceed 2/3 of the area of the
floor below.
   STREET/ROAD. A public thoroughfare, which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property having a right-of-way not less than 66 feet in
width and meeting the standards set forth by the Jackson County Road
Commission.
   STREET LINE.
      (1)   The dividing line between the street right-of-way and the lot.
      (2)   When the right-of-way is not definable, a line shall be defined as
33 feet on either side of the center of the street.
   STRIP CENTER.
      (1)   An attached row of stores or service outlets managed as a coherent
retail entity, with on-site parking usually located in front of the stores.
      (2)   Open canopies may connect the storefronts, but a STRIP CENTER does
not have enclosed walkways linking the stores.
      (3)   A STRIP CENTER may be configured in a straight line, or have an “L”
or “U” shape.
   STRUCTURE. Anything artificially constructed, erected, or placed with a
fixed location on the surface of the ground or affixed to something having a
fixed location on the surface of the ground, or constructed or placed below the
surface of the ground, except fences, drives, paving, parking lots, and/or
paved ramps.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND TOWERS.
      (1)   A telecommunication facility shall mean and include all structures
and accessory facilities relating to the use of radio frequency spectrum for
the purpose of transmitting or receiving radio signals.
      (2)   This may include, but shall not be limited to, communication
services, (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile
radio (ESMR), satellite dish facilities, telephone devices and exchanges,
microwave relay facilities, telephone transmission equipment buildings, private
and commercial radio service facilities, paging and similar services, which are
licensed and marked to the general public, except preemptions as stated in the
Federal Telecommunication Act of 1996, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq.
      (3)   Not included in this definition are citizen band radio facilities,
short wave receiving facilities, federally licensed amateur (ham) radio
facilities, and government facilities that are subject to state or federal law
or regulations which preempt municipal regulatory authority.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any language contained in this chapter to the
contrary, and in particular the definition of essential services,
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES shall not be deemed essential services and shall
be subject to and governed by the provisions of §
150.257.
      (5)   No facility may hereafter be constructed or erected without
satisfying the requirements of §
150.257.
   TELEPHONE SERVICE PROVIDER. A telephone service provider shall include
wireless, non-wireless, digital, and analog services where a customer or
subscriber’s lines are joined or connected to switching equipment of connecting
customers or subscribers to each other.
   TELEWORK CENTER.
      (1)   Satellite work facility incorporating sufficient technology to
permit employees to reduce their commute trip or to work closer to home.
      (2)   The goal of the centers is to reduce the distance traveled in a
commute trip by at least half the distance.
   TEMPORARY FACILITIES. A building or structure not meeting the definition for
a permanent building or structure, at which merchandise is sold, including the
following:
      (1)   Retail stands;
      (2)   Tents;
      (3)   Canopies;
      (4)   Membrane structures.
   TOURIST HOMES. Considered or construed to be multiple dwelling, motel,
hotel, boarding or rooming house.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle designed as a travel unit for occupancy as a
temporary or seasonal living unit, capable of being towed by a passenger
automobile.
   UNDEVELOPED STATE.
      (1)   A natural state preserving natural resources, natural features, or
scenic or wooded conditions; agricultural use; open space; or similar use or
condition.
      (2)   Land in an undeveloped state does not include a golf course but may
include a recreation trail, picnic area; children’s play area, greenway, or
linear park.
      (3)   Land in an undeveloped state may be, but is not required to be,
dedicated to the use of the public.
   USGS. Denotes the United States Geological Survey, which is responsible for
mapping and remapping of the continental United States and its territories.
   UTILITY GRID/ LARGE SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY (SOLAR FARM). A utility-scale
facility that converts sunlight into electricity by photovoltaics (PV) or
experimental solar technologies. Any ground-mounted facility that covers more
than 10,000 square feet is included in this definition.
   UTILITY GRID/ LARGE WIND ENERGY FACILITY SYSTEM. A utility grid wind energy
system is designed and built to provide electricity to the electric utility
grid.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A VARIANCE is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where the
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
      (2)   As used in this chapter, a VARIANCE is authorized only for height,
area, and size of yards and open spaces and parking space; establishment or
expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance, nor
shall a variance be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the
zoning division or district or adjoining zoning division or districts.
   VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine overhauling or rebuilding, valve and piston
repair, transmission repair, axle and universal joint repair, body repair,
painting and refinishing.
   VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR. Engine tune-ups; electrical systems, suspension
systems, brakes, exhaust systems, cooling systems and heating and air
conditioning systems repair; rust proofing; tire replacement; wheel balancing
and alignment and diagnostic services.
   VENDING. The act of offering merchandise for sale from a vehicle or from a
fixed place in a tent, canopy or similar shelter, not including merchants
offering merchandise for sale upon commercial premises permanently occupied by
them. It is also the act of offering merchandise for immediate sale; sale by
sample, description or otherwise for delivery or sale at a future time; or by
going door to door, house to house, person to person, or car to car. It does
not include the act of offering merchandise for wholesale to retailers or for
resale to manufacturers for use in their process. Nor does it include regular
route delivery persons delivering products.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY. A power generating facility consisting of 1 or more
wind turbines, under common ownership or operation control, and includes
substations, MET towers, cables/wires, and other buildings accessory to the
facility, whose main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site customers.
   WIND SITE ASSESSMENT. An assessment to determine the wind speeds at a
specific site and the feasibility of using that site for the construction of a
wind facility.
   WIND TURBINE GENERATOR. A wind energy conversion system which converts wind
energy into electricity. All components for a system shall be designed and
built by licensed and regulated engineering and manufacturing firms and
facilities to insure that the safety and structural integrity of the towers and
generators meet the standards of the International Electrical Commission
including a tower, pylon, or other structure, including all accessory
facilities, upon which any, all, or some combination of the following are
mounted:
      (1)   A wind vane, blade, or series of wind vanes or blades, or other
devices mounted on a rotor for the purpose of converting wind into electrical
or mechanical energy.
      (2)   A shaft, gear, belt, or coupling device used to connect the rotor
to a generator, alternator, or other electrical or energy-producing device.
      (3)   A generator, alternator, or other device used to convert the energy
created by the rotation of the rotor into electrical or mechanical energy.
   WIND TURBINE GENERATOR TOTAL HEIGHT.
      (1)   HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE ROTORS. The distance between the
ground and the highest point of the wind turbine generator, plus the length by
which the rotor wind vanes or blades mounted on a horizontal axis wind turbine
rotor exceeds the height of a wind turbine generator.
      (2)   VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. The distance between the ground and the
highest point of the wind turbine generator including the top of the blade in
its vertical position.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space extending the full width of the lot
and situated between the street line and the front line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space extending the full width of the lot
and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the
building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main
building, situated between the side line of the building and the adjacent side
line of the lot and extending from the rear line of the front yard to the front
line of the rear yard, and if no front yard is required, the front boundary of
the side yard shall be the front line of the lot and if no rear yard is
required, the rear boundary of the side yard shall be the rear line of the lot.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS (ZBA).
      (1)   The body required to consider appeals from administrative zoning
decisions and other zoning actions.
      (2)   The ZBA is authorized to make adjustments in how zoning standards
are applied.
   ZONING CLASSIFICATION. The name given to types of zones such as single-
family residential, rural residential, agricultural, regional shopping,
neighborhood shopping, office, industrial, and the like.
   ZONING JURISDICTION.
      (1)   The area encompassed by the legal boundaries of a city or village
or to the area encompassed by the legal boundaries of a county or township
outside the limits of incorporated cities and villages.
      (2)   The zoning jurisdiction of a county does not include the areas
subject to township zoning by a township that has adopted a zoning ordinance
under this act.
   ZONING LOT. Provided that the owner(s) of any number of contiguous lots or
contiguous portions of lots may have as many of said contiguous lots or
contiguous portions of lots considered as a single lot for the purpose of this
code as her or she so elects. In such case, the outside perimeter of said group
of lots or portions of lots shall constitute the front, rear, and side lot
lines thereof. This definition shall apply only to the siting of a utility
grid, large solar energy facility (solar farm).
(Ord. -, Article IX, § 9, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord.
passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-2014 ; Am. Ord. passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord.
122, passed 5-9-2017; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 150.007 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   (1)   Conflicting laws of a more restrictive nature are not affected
or repealed by this chapter.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered as minimum.
      (3)   Conflicting laws of a less restrictive nature, or those conflicting
in other ways than degrees of restrictiveness, are hereby repealed.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate or annul any easement,
covenant, or other private agreement provided that where any provision of this
chapter is more restrictive or imposes a higher standard or requirement than
the easement, covenant, or other private agreement, the provision of this
chapter shall govern.
(Ord. -, Article X, § 10.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was adopted by the Board of Summit Township, Jackson County,
Michigan, at a meeting held on ____________________________________, and notice
ordered published in _________________________, a newspaper having general
circulation in Summit Township.
(Ord. -, Article X, § 10.5, passed 9-12-2006)
ESTABLISHMENTS OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 150.020 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The township is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
      (1)   AG-I Agricultural District;
      (2)   RNF-1 Rural Non-Farm Residential District;
      (3)   RS-1 Suburban Residential District l;
      (4)   RS-2 Suburban Residential District II;
      (5)   RU-1 Urban Residential District l;
      (6)   RU-2 Urban Residential District II;
      (7)   RM-1 Multiple-Family Residential District I;
      (8)   RM-2 Multiple-Family Residential District II;
      (9)   MH-1 Mobile Home Residential District;
      (10)   O-1 Office District;
      (11)   C-1 Local Commercial District;
      (12)   C-2 General Commercial District;
      (13)   C-3 Highway Service Commercial District;
      (14)   I-1 Light Industrial District;
      (15)   I-2 Heavy Industrial District;
      (16)   Planned Development Districts;
      (17)   PR-1 Planned Residential District;
      (18)   PO-1 Planned Office District;
      (19)   PC-1 Planned Commercial District; and
      (20)   PI-2 Planned Industrial District;
(Ord. -, Article III, § 3.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.021 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The zoning districts as provided in §
150.020 are bounded and defined on a map entitled, “Official Zoning Map, Summit
Township, Jackson County, Michigan,” and dated. The zoning map, with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted as part of this chapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Township Supervisor attested by the Clerk. The Official Zoning Map shall be
located in the office of the Clerk and available for examination.
(Ord. -, Article III, § 3.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.022 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Except where specifically designated on the Official Zoning Map, the
zoning district boundary lines are intended to follow lot lines, the center
lines of streets or alleys, the center lines of creeks, streams, or rivers, the
center lines of streets or alleys projected, center lines of railroad rights-
of-way lines, section lines, one-quarter section lines, one-eighth section
lines, or a corporate limit line, all as they existed at the time of the
enactment of this chapter, as subsequently modified and designated as such
boundary line.
   (B)   Where a district boundary does not coincide with any of the above
lines, the district boundary lines shall be dimensioned on the Official Zoning
Map.
   (C)   When the location of a district boundary is uncertain, the Board of
Appeals shall interpret the exact location of the district boundary.
(Ord. -, Article III, § 3.3, passed 9-12-2006)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 150.035 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The intent, permitted uses, conditional uses, height, area, density,
and sign regulations of each district are set forth in §§
150.050 et seq.,
150.065 et seq.,
150.085 et seq.,
150.100 et seq.,
150.115 et seq.,
150.130 et seq., and
150.145 et seq.
   (B)   See §
150.146 for the table of Permitted and Conditional Uses and §
150.147 for the table of Area, Yard, Height, and Bulk Regulations.
(Ord. -, Art. IV, passed 9-12-2006)
OPEN DISTRICTS
§ 150.050 GENERALLY.
   Open Districts are established to protect land best suited for open use from
the encroachment of incompatible land uses, to preserve valuable agricultural
land for agricultural uses, and to retain land suited for open space and
recreation use for the future.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.051 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (AG-1).
   (A)   The intent of this District is to set aside land suitable for
agricultural development and agriculture-related uses.
   (B)   Agricultural uses must conform with the Michigan Right to Farm Act, as
amended, Public Act 93 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 - 286.474, including
the open space preservation provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as
amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.1.1, passed 9-12-2006)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 150.065 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Rural Non-Farm Residential District, Suburban Residential
Districts, Urban Residential Districts, Multiple-Family Residential Districts,
Planned Residential District, and Mobile Home Residential District are
designated principally for residential use and are limited to dwellings and
uses normally associated with residential neighborhoods in order to encourage a
suitable and healthy environment for family life.
   (B)   The residential districts are designed to regulate the location of
residential uses and dwellings according to a well-considered plan which
reflects the different types of residential uses and dwellings, the different
densities of population and the intensity of land use desired; potential
nuisances and hazards which may cause unhealthy conditions; and the
relationship of residential uses and dwellings to other areas devoted to
agricultural, commercial, or industrial use and to streets.
   (C)   The purpose of each residential district is further stated below.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.066 RURAL NON-FARM RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RNF-1).
   This District is established to provide suitable areas for single-family
dwellings at low densities to preserve a predominantly rural character in these
areas fit for concentrated residential use because of the ability of the soil
to absorb sewage wastes from individual septic tanks.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.067 SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (RS-1) AND (RS-2).
   These Districts are designed to provide residential areas principally for
moderate suburban densities where necessary urban services and facilities,
including central sewerage and water supply systems, can be feasibly provided.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.068 URBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RU-1).
   This District is designed to provide areas principally for high-density,
single-family residential dwellings where necessary urban services and
facilities are provided, including central sanitary sewerage and central water
systems.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.069 URBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RU-2).
   This District is designed to provide areas principally for high-density,
single-family residential dwellings where necessary urban services and
facilities are provided, including central sanitary sewerage and central water
supply systems.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.070 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RM-1).
   This District is designed to permit a high density of population and a high
intensity of land use in those areas which are served by a central water supply
system and a central sanitary sewerage system, and which abut or are adjacent
to the other uses or amenities, which support, complement, or serve such a
density and intensity.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.071 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RM-2).
   This District is designed to permit a moderate density of population and a
moderate intensity of land use in those areas which are served by a central
water supply system and a central sanitary sewerage system, and which abut or
are adjacent to the other uses or amenities, which support, complement, or
serve such a density and intensity.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.6, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.072 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (MH-1).
   (A)   This District is composed of those areas of the township whose
principal use is or ought to be mobile home dwellings.
   (B)   The regulations of this district are designed to permit a density of
population and an intensity of land use in those areas which are served by a
central water supply system and a central sanitary sewerage system, and which
abut or are adjacent to the other uses, buildings, structures, or amenities
which support, complement, or serve the density and intensity.
   (C)   Mobile home parks as defined in § 2 of the Michigan Mobile Home
Commission Act, as amended, Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 -
125.2350, shall meet the standards established and referenced in that Act and
the Manufacturing Housing Commission General Rules, R 125.1101 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.2.7, passed 9-12-2006)
OFFICE DISTRICTS
§ 150.085 GENERALLY.
   The Office District is designed principally for office use and those uses,
which are customarily associated with offices.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.3, passed 9-12-2006)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
§ 150.100 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Local Commercial District, General Commercial District, Highway
Service Commercial District, and Planned Commercial District are designed to
limit compatible commercial enterprises at appropriate locations to encourage
efficient traffic movement, parking and utility service; advance public safety;
and protect surrounding property.
   (B)   The commercial districts are designed to regulate the location of
these business uses according to a well-considered plan which determined the
types of the uses and the intensity of land, street and highway use in each
such district; potential nuisances and hazards which may cause unsafe
conditions; and the relationship of commercial uses to each other and to other
areas devoted to agricultural, residential, or industrial use and to streets
and highways.
   (C)   The purpose of each commercial district is further stated below.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.101 LOCAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1).
   (A)   This District is designed to encourage planned and integrated
groupings of stores that will retail convenience goods and provide personal
services to meet regular and recurring needs of the neighborhood resident
population.
   (B)   To these ends, certain uses, which would function more effectively in
other districts and would interfere with the operation of these business
activities and the purpose of this district, have been excluded.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.4.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.102 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-2).
   This District is intended to encourage planned and integrated groupings of
retail, service, and administrative establishments which will retail
convenience and comparison goods and provide personal and professional services
for the entire area and to accommodate commercial establishments which cannot
be practically provided in neighborhood commercial areas.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.4.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.103 HIGHWAY SERVICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-3).
   (A)   This District is intended to provide for various commercial
establishments offering accommodations, supplies, and services to local as well
as through automobile and truck traffic.
   (B)   These districts should be provided at locations along major
thoroughfares or adjacent to the interchange ramps of a limited access highway
facility and should encourage grouping of various facilities into centers and
discourage dispersion of these activities.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.4.3, passed 9-12-2006)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 150.115 GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is recognized by this chapter that the value to the public of
designating certain areas for certain types of industrial uses is represented
in the employment opportunities afforded to citizens and the resultant economic
benefits conferred upon the township.
   (B)   In order that this value may be maintained and this use encouraged,
this chapter has established 2 zoning districts designed to regulate the
location of industrial uses according to a well-considered plan which reflects
the types of the use and the intensity of land, street, and highway use in each
such district; potential nuisances and hazards which may cause unsafe and
unhealthy conditions; and the relationship of industrial uses to each other and
to other areas devoted to agricultural, residential, or commercial use and to
streets, highways, and other means of transportation.
   (C)   To these ends, certain uses which would function more effectively in
other districts and would interfere with the operation of these industrial
activities and the purpose of these districts have been excluded.
   (D)   The purpose of each industrial district is further stated below.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.116 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1).
   (A)   This District is designed to provide suitable space for light
industrial uses which operate in a safe, nonobjectionable and efficient manner,
and which are compatible in appearance with and require a minimum of buffering
measures from adjoining non-industrial zoning districts.
   (B)   These uses generate a minimum of noise, glare, odor, dust, vibration,
air and water pollutants, fire, explosive and radioactive hazards, and other
harmful or obnoxious matter.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.5.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.117 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2).
   This District is designed to provide suitable space for industrial
operations of all types that can comply with all provisions of this chapter and
can assure protection of the public interest and surrounding property and
persons.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.5.2, passed 9-12-2006)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
§ 150.130 GENERALLY.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   (a)   Planned Development Districts are intended to provide
flexible land use and design regulations for residential, office, commercial,
and industrial development proposals and to permit a variety of development
types, containing both individual building sites and common property which are
planned and developed as a unit.
         (b)   This District encourages innovation in development to enable
development demands to be met by a variety of types, designs, sitings, and
through the conservation and more efficient use of land in the developments.
      (2)   When flexible design techniques are deemed appropriate through the
re-zoning of land for a planned development district, the use and dimensional
specifications elsewhere in this chapter are hereby replaced by an approval
process in which an approved plan becomes a basis for continuing land use
controls.
   (B)   Objectives that all Planned Development Districts must achieve.
      (1)   Promote maximum choice in the types of environment, lot sizes, and
community facilities available to owners or tenants;
      (2)   Encourage more usable tracts of land for open spaces and
recreational purposes and for common use;
      (3)   Preserve trees, outstanding natural topography and geologic
features, and prevent soil erosion;
      (4)   Encourage creative use of land, which can be planned to relate to
surrounding physical development;
      (5)   Attain more efficient use of land as a result of small networks of
utilities and streets, and thereby lower costs;
      (6)   Achieve a development pattern in harmony with the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (7)   Provide an opportunity to locate necessary community facilities
within neighborhoods; and
      (8)   Create a more desirable environment plan than would be possible
through the application of strict zoning requirements applied in other sections
of this chapter.
   (C)   General requirements for all Planned Development Districts.
      (1)   Minimum area. The minimum area required to qualify for a Planned
Development District shall be not less than 10 contiguous acres of land.
      (2)   Ownership.
         (a)   The tract of land for a project must be either in one ownership
or the subject of an application filed jointly by the owners of all the
properties included (the holder of a written option to purchase land shall for
purposes of the application be deemed to be an owner of the land).
         (b)   In the case of multiple ownerships, the approved plan shall be
binding on all owners.
      (3)   Location of the Planned Development District. This District shall
be applicable to any area of the township where the applicant can demonstrate
that the characteristics of his or her holdings will meet the objectives of the
Planned Development District.
      (4)   Land use and density.
         (a)   Because land is used more efficiently in the PR-1 District,
improved environmental quality can often be produced with a greater number of
dwelling units per net acre than usually permitted in traditionally zoned
residential districts.
         (b)   The Township Planning Commission shall determine in each case
the appropriate land use pattern and dwelling unit density for individual
projects.
      (5)   Common property in the Planned Development District.
         (a)   Common property in the Planned Development District consists of
a parcel or parcels of land, together with the improvements thereon, the use
and enjoyment of which are shared by the owners and occupants of the planned
development.
         (b)   When common property exists, the ownership of the common
property may be either public or private.
         (c)   When common property exists in private ownership, satisfactory
arrangements must be made for the improvement, operation, and maintenance of
the common property and facilities, including private streets, drives, service
and parking areas, and areas for recreation and open space.
      (6)   Regulation after initial construction and occupancy.
         (a)   For the purposes of regulating land development and use of
property after initial construction and occupancy, any changes other than use
changes shall require approval by the Township Planning Commission.
         (b)   Use changes shall require Township Board approval following the
recommendation of the Township Planning Commission.
         (c)   It shall be noted, however, that properties lying in Planned
Development Districts are unique and shall be so considered by the Township
Planning Commission and Township Board when evaluating these requests, and
maintenance of the intent and function of the Planned Residential Unit shall be
of primary importance.
      (7)   Financial responsibility. No building permits shall be issued for
construction within a Planned Development District until public improvements
are installed or performance bond posted in accordance with the Township
Ordinance.
      (8)   Site condominium projects.
         (a)   All site condominium projects shall be subject to the
provisions, rules, regulations, and procedures set forth in this chapter for a
Planned Development District.
         (b)   The Planned Development District shall apply to any site
condominium project regardless of the zoning district in which the condominium
project is situated or located, provided, however, that site condominium
projects shall not be subject to the minimum acreage requirements of the
planned development district.
         (c)   This provision shall apply to all residential site projects
subject to and constructed under the Condominium Act, as amended, Public Act 59
of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 - 559.272).
   (D)   Planned Development District application procedure and zoning approval
process. Whenever a Planned Development District is proposed, before any
building permit for the erection of a permanent building on the site shall be
granted, the developer or his or her authorized agent shall apply for and
secure approval of the Planned Development District in accordance with the
following procedures.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The applicant shall file a Planned Development District
application form; submit required data, exhibits, and information; and deposit
the required fee as established by resolution of Summit Township Board, except
that no fee shall be required of any governmental body or agency.
         (b)   No part of the fee shall be returnable to the applicant.
      (2)   Staging.
         (a)   If the applicant wishes to stage the development and has so
indicated on the development plan, the development plan may be submitted with
only those stages he or she wishes to develop at this time.
         (b)   Any plan which requires more than 24 months to be completed
shall be required to be staged and staging plan shall be developed.
      (3)   Review of the development plan. The proposed Planned Unit
Development must be reviewed according to the procedures and requirements
outlined in §§
150.330 et seq., procedure for evaluating development proposals and development
plan requirements.
      (4)   Zoning for Planned Development District. The parcel must be rezoned
to the appropriate Planned Development District before the proposal can be
developed. All Planned Development Districts must be identified on the Official
Zoning Map as follows:
         (a)   Planned Residential District = PR-1;
         (b)   Planned Office District = PO-1;
         (c)   Planned Commercial District = PC-1; and
         (d)   Planned Industrial District = PI-2.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.6, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.131 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (PR-1).
   (A)   Generally. This Planned Residential District (PR-1) is intended to
permit small-to-large scale neighborhoods or portions thereof to be developed
within the township that permit a variety of residential types.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All uses within an area designated as PR-1 District
are determined by the provisions of this section and the approved plan for the
project concerned.
      (1)   (a)   Residences may be of a variety of types, including 1-family,
2-family, and multiple-family, but not including mobile homes.
         (b)   In developing a balanced community, the use of a variety of
housing types shall be deemed desirable in keeping with the objectives of this
District.
      (2)   Customary accessory or associated uses, such as private garages,
storage spaces, recreational and community activities, churches and schools
shall be permitted as appropriate to the Planned Residential District.
      (3)   Essential services and structures but not including
telecommunication facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, water treatment
facilities, maintenance depots, or warehouses.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.6.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.132 PLANNED OFFICE DISTRICT (PO-1).
   (A)   Generally. This Planned Office District (PO-1) is intended to permit a
variety of office types.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses within an area designated PO-1 District are determined by
the provisions of this section and the approved plan of the project concerned.
      (2)   Offices may be of a variety of types and designs.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.6.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.133 PLANNED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (PC-1).
   (A)   Generally. This Planned Commercial District (PC-1) is intended to
permit a regional commercial shopping center.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All uses within an area designated PC-1 District are
determined by the provisions of this section and the approved plan of the
project concerned, including any use permitted in the General Commercial
District.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.6.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.134 PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (PI-2).
   (A)   Generally. This Planned Industrial District (PI-2) is intended to
permit a variety of industrial types.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses within an area designated PI-2 District are determined by
the provisions of this section and the approved plan of the project concerned.
      (2)   Structures may be of a variety of types and designs.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.6.4, passed 9-12-2006)
DISTRICT USE, AREA, YARD, HEIGHT, AND BULK REGULATIONS
§ 150.145 PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses are permitted (P) or conditional (C) within the zoning
districts. Conditional uses require approval by the Township Board according to
the procedures in §§
150.250 et seq.
 Permitted
 and         AG- RNF- RS- RS- RU-1 RU-2 RM-1 RM-2 MH-1 O-1 C-1 C-2 C-3 I-1 I-2
 Conditional 1   1    1   2
 Uses
    Permitted and Conditional Uses                                     AG- RNF- RS- RS- RU- RU- RM- RM- MH- O- C- C- C- I- I-
                                                                       1   1    1   2   1   2   1   2   1   1  1  2  3  1  2
1   Accessory uses or structures                                       P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   -   P  P  P  P  -  -  1
2   Adult day care and child care centers                              -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  -  -  2
3   Adult drive-in motion picture theater                              -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  C  -  3
4   Adult motion picture theater                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  C  -  4
5   Adult physical culture establishments                              -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  -  -  5
6   Adult supply store                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  C  -  6
7   Airports                                                           C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  7
8   Animal hospitals                                                   C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  8
9   Animal parks, zoos, and aquariums (See §                          C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  9
    150.257 for additional requirements)
10  Antique shops                                                      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  10
11  Any use permitted in the light industrial district                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  P  11
12  Arcade                                                             -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  C  P  P  -  -  12
13  Artisan production shops                                           -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  13
14  Artists studio                                                     -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  14
    Assembly and manufacture, from prefabricated parts, of household
15  appliances, electronic products, machinery and hardware products,  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  15
    and similar products; or the processing or assembling of parts for
    production of finished equipment
16  Auto convenience market                                            -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  16
17  Automatic teller machine (including stand alone)                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  17
18  Automobile repair garages                                          -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  C  -  18
19  Automobile service stations                                        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  P  -  19
    Reserved – 20-22                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
23  Banks and credit unions                                            -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   C  -  -  -  -  -  23
24  Banquet hall, reception hall, and convention center                -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  C  -  24
25  Bathing establishments                                             -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  -  -  25
26  Bed and breakfast/boarding house                                   -   -    C   C   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  26
27  Brew pub                                                           -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  -  -  27
28  Bulk oil storage                                                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  C  28
29  Business schools; including dance schools, music schools, and art  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  29
    schools
30  Business services; including banks, loan offices, real estate      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  30
    offices, and insurance offices
    Reserved – 31-33                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
34  Cabaret                                                            -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  34
35  Car wash                                                           -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  -  -  35
36  Cemeteries                                                         C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  36
37  Churches and other buildings for religious worship                 C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   -   -  C  C  C  -  -  37
38  Clubs and lodges                                                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  38
39  Coffee kiosk                                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  39
40  Combined residential and office or business units (See §          -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   C  C  C  C  -  -  40
    150.257 for additional requirements)
    Conservation and/or recreation areas including forest preserves,
41  game refuges, nature reservations, hunt clubs, and similar areas   P   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  41
    of low intensity use
42  Contractors yard                                                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  42
43  Convenience store                                                  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  43
44  Copy shop                                                          -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   C  P  P  P  -  -  44
45  Country clubs                                                      -   C    C   C   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  45
46  Currency exchange                                                  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  46
    Reserved – 47-49                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
50  Data center                                                        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   C  -  -  -  -  -  50
51  Day camp                                                           C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  51
52  Dinner theater                                                     -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  52
53  Dog grooming                                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  53
54  Donut shops                                                        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  54
55  Drive-in business services                                         -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  P  -  -  55
56  Drive-in retail and service establishments, except drive-in        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P  P  -  56
    theaters
57  Drive-in theaters (See §                                          -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  C  -  57
    150.257 for additional requirements)
    Reserved – 58-60                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
61  Eating and drinking establishments                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P  P  -  61
62  Eating and drinking establishments, not including drive-ins        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  C  C  C  -  -  62
63  Eating establishments                                              -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  63
64  Essential service structures of a non-industrial character, but    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   C   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  64
    not including maintenance depots or warehouses
    Essential service structures of a non-industrial character, but
65  not including telecommunication facilities, maintenance depots, or -   C    C   C   C   C   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  65
    warehouses
    Essential services and structures, but not including
66  telecommunication facilities, wastewater treatment facilities,     P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P  -  -  66
    water treatment facilities, maintenance depots, or warehouses
67  Essential services and structures, but not including water         -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  67
    treatment facilities, or wastewater treatment facilities
    Essential services and structures such as telecommunication
    facilities (see §
68  150.257 for additional requirements), but not including wastewater -   -    -   -   -   -   C   C   -   C  C  C  C  -  -  68
    treatment facilities, water treatment facilities, maintenance
    depots, and warehouses
    Essential services such as telecommunication facilities (see §
69  150.257 for additional requirements), wastewater treatment         C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  C  69
    facilities and water treatment facilities, maintenance depots, and
    warehouses
    Reserved – 70-72                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
73  Farm machinery and equipment sales and repair                          -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  73
74  Feedlots                                                           C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  74
    Fine art instructions subject to home occupations type 2 (see §§
75  150.171 and                                                        -   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  75
    150.257)
76  Funeral homes/establishments                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   C   -   -   P  -  P  P  -  -  76
    Reserved – 77-79                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
    General and specialized farming and agricultural activities except
    feedlots, but including the raising or growing and storage or
80  preservation of crops, sod, livestock, poultry, rabbits, fur-      P   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  80
    bearing animals, and other farm animals, and plants, trees,
    shrubs, and nursery stock in compliance with the standards set by
    the Michigan Right to Farm Act
81  General service and repair establishments, including dyeing,       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  81
    cleaning, or laundry works and upholstery or appliance repair
    Generally including those light manufacturing uses similar to the
    permitted uses in this district which do not create any more
82  danger to health and safety in surrounding areas and which do not  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  C  C  82
    create any more offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, lint,
    odors, heat, or glare than that which is generally associated with
    light industries of the type specifically permitted
83  Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges                C   C    C   C   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  83
84  Golf driving ranges                                                C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  84
85  Government- or community-owned buildings                           -   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   -   -  C  C  C  -  -  85
86  Group or organized camps, camping grounds, and general or          C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  86
    specialized resorts
    Reserved – 87-89                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
90  Home occupations; type 1 (see §                                   P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  90
    150.171)
    Home occupations, type 2 (see §§
91  150.171 and                                                        C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  91
    150.257)
92  Hospitals, convalescent/nursing homes, sanitariums, and charitable C   -    -   -   -   -   C   C   -   C  -  -  -  -  -  92
    institutions for human care
93  Hotels and motels                                                  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  P  P  -  93
    Reserved – 94-96                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
97  Ice cream parlors and stores                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  97
98  Indoor and outdoor commercial amusements                           -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P  -  -  98
99  Indoor commercial amusement and recreation services, including     -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  99
    theaters, bowling alleys, and roller and ice-skating rinks.
100 Indoor retail sales establishments                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  100
101 Industrial office buildings                                        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  101
102 Industrial uses not in conflict with any enacted state or local    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  P  102
    laws, or any provisions of this chapter
    Reserved – 103-105                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
106 Junkyards (See §                                                  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  C  106
    150.257 for additional requirements)
    Reserved – 107-109                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
110 Kennels                                                            C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  110
    Reserved – 111-113                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
114 Laboratories, dental or medical                                    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P  -  -  -  -  -  114
115 Live theater                                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  115
116 Lumber yards                                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  116
    Reserved – 117-119                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
120 Massage establishment                                              -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  -  -  120
121 Massage establishment, auxiliary                                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  C  -  -  121
122 Medical and dental clinics                                         -   -    -   -   -   -   C   C   -   P  -  -  -  -  -  122
123 Micro brewery                                                      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  -  -  123
124 Mobile home parks                                                  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -  -  -  -  -  -  124
125 Mobile home subdivisions in accordance with the provisions of RS-  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   P   -  -  -  -  -  -  125
    2 (suburban residential district II)
126 Movie theater                                                                                              C  C  C        126
127 Multiple-family dwellings                                          -   -    -   -   -   -   P   P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  127
128 Medical marihuana caregiver grow operation (see §                 P   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P  P  P  P  P  P  128
    150.180 for additional requirements)
129 Medical marihuana home use (see §                                 P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P  -  -  129
    150.180 for additional requirements)
    Reserved – 130                                                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
131 Offices of an executive, administrative, professional, or similar  -   -    -   -   -   -   C   C   -   P  P  P  P  -  -  131
    nature
132 Off-site signs (see §§                                           -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  -  132
    150.190 et seq.)
133 On-site signs (see §§                                            P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P  P  P  133
    150.190 et seq.)
    Open space development of single-family dwellings as provided for
    in the open space preservation provisions of the Michigan Zoning
134 Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A.   P   P    P   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  134
    §§ 125.3101 et seq., and the provisions of §§ 150.270 et seq.,
    site plan review and approval, and § 177, open space preservation
    developments
    Reserved – 135-137                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
    Personal services, including barber shops and beauty salons;
138 medical and dental clinics; dry cleaners and self-service          -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  138
    laundromats; and sale and repair shops for watches, shoes, radios,
    televisions, tanning salons, health clubs, and spas
139 Physical fitness centers                                           -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  -  -  139
140 PC-1 – planned-commercial districts (see §§                    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  140
    150.130 et seq.)
141 PC-1 – planned Office Districts (see §§                        -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P  -  -  -  -  -  141
    150.130 et seq.)
142 PI-2 – planned industrial districts (see §§                    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  142
    150.130 et seq.)
143 PR-1 – planned residential districts (see §§                   -   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  143
    150.130 et seq.)
144 Printing establishments                                            -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  144
145 Public and private nurseries, primary or secondary nonprofit       C   -    -   -   -   -   C   C   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  145
    schools, and colleges and universities
146 Public and private nurseries; primary and secondary schools, and   C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C  -  -  -  -  -  146
    colleges
147 Public swimming pools, recreation centers, parks, playgrounds, and C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  147
    play fields
    Reserved – 148-150                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
151 Quarries (See §                                                   C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  151
    150.257 for additional requirements)
    Reserved – 152-154                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
155 Railroad terminals                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  P  155
156 Research and testing laboratories                                  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  156
157 Retail sale of foods, drugs, hardware, notions, books, and similar -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  157
    convenience goods
158 Riding academies and stables                                       C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  158
159 Rooming houses and boarding houses                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   P   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  159
    Reserved – 160-162                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
163 Sale of agricultural products raised or grown on the farm premises P   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  163
    including roadside stand for the sales
    Sales of mobile homes provided that the sales operation is clearly
164 subordinate and incidental to the use of the area for mobile home  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   C   -  -  -  -  -  -  164
    dwellings (see §
    150.257 for additional requirements)
165 Sales, rental, and service of motor vehicles, trailers, and boats  -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P  P  P  165
166 Sanitary landfills                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  C  166
167 Secondhand merchandise, retail sales                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  P  -  -  167
168 Single-family detached dwellings.                                  P   P    P   P   P   P   C   C   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  168
169 Skilled trade services including plumbing, electric, heating,      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  169
    printing, and painting establishments
170 Small animal clinics                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  -  -  170
171 Spas                                                               -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  P  C  -  -  171
    State licensed group homes or centers and other state licensed
172 homes or centers except those homes permitted as a use of right by C   C    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  172
    state statute
173 Storage sheds and storage facilities for rent                      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  P  -  -  173
174 Studios for professional work                                      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   P  -  -  -  -  -  174
    Small on-site tower mounted wind energy systems up to 80 feet in
175 total height with lot sizes of 1 acre or greater (see §           C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  C  C  175
    150.257(J) for additional requirements)
    Small on-site tower mounted wind energy systems over 80 feet in
176 total height with lot sizes 2 acres or greater (see §             C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  C  C  C  C  176
    150.257(J) for additional requirements)
    All small on-site tower and structure mounted wind energy systems
    with a lot size of 1 acre or greater and are either tower mounted
    systems with a total height up to 60 feet or structure mounted
177 systems that are attached to a structure’s roof, walls, or other -   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C   -  -  -  -  -  -  177
    elevated surface and has a total height that does not exceed 15
    feet as measured from the highest point on the roof, excluding
    chimneys, antennae, and other protuberances (see §
    150.257(J) for additional requirements)
178 Small solar energy facility (see §                                P   P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P  P  P  P  P  P  178
    150.180(D) for additional requirements)
    Reserved 179-181                                                   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
182 Telework center                                                    -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   C  -  P  P  -  -  182
183 Tourist home                                                       -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  P  P  P  -  -  183
184 Travel trailer parks                                               C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  184
185 Trucking terminals                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  185
186 2-family dwellings                                                 -   -    -   -   P   P   P   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  186
    Reserved - 187-189                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
    Uses not specifically authorized as permitted uses in this
    district, but which are similar in nature to specified permitted
190 or conditional uses, may be authorized as conditional uses in this C   C    C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C  C  C  C  C  C  190
    district so long as they are similar in nature as other uses in
    the district and consistent with the general intent of the
    district
    Utility grid, large wind energy facilities/systems with 10 acres
191 or larger (see §                                                  C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  C  C  191
    150.257(K) for additional requirements)
192 Utility grid, large solar energy facility (solar farm) (see §     C   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  C  C  192
    150.257(L) for additional requirements)
    Reserved - 193-195                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
196 Vehicle repair garages, but not including auto junk yards          -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  196
    Reserved - 197-199                                                 -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -
200 Wholesale merchandising or storage warehouses                      -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  -  P  P  200
 
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.1, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord.
passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 150.146 DISTRICT AREA, YARD, HEIGHT, AND BULK REGULATIONS.
                Lot            Minimum Yard    Max Bldg Height
                Requirements   Requirements    Requirements        Min
Zoning   Zoning Min  Min   Max                                     Transition
District Symbol Lot  Lot   Lot Front Side Rear Principal Accessory Strip
                Area Width Cov                                     Requirements
                    Lot Requirements     Minimum Yard     Max Bldg Height
                                         Requirements     Requirements        Min
Zoning       Zoning Min    Min                                                Transition
District     Symbol Lot    Lot   Max Lot Front Side  Rear Principal Accessory Strip
                    Area   Width Cov                                          Requirements

                                                                                           Single-
                    2                          30                                          family
                    acres  200           60    feet  50   2.5 story                        detached
Agricultural AG-1          feet  10%     feet  60    feet or 35     80 feet   n/a          dwelling
                                               feet*      feet                             units.
                    3                                                                      All other
                    acres                                                                  uses.
                                                                                           Single-
                                               20                                          family
Rural Non-          1 acre 150           35    feet  35   2.5 story                        detached
Farm         RNF-1         feet  20%     feet  35    feet or 35     16 feet   n/a          dwelling
Residential                                    feet*      feet                             units.
                    2                                                                      All other
                    acres                                                                  uses.
                                               10                                          Single-
                    20,000 100                 feet                                        family
Suburban            square feet                min        2.5 story                        detached
Residential  RS-1   feet         30%     35    25    20   or 35     16 feet   n/a          dwelling
1                                        feet  feet  feet feet                             units.
                           120                 total                                       All other
                    1 acre feet                35                                          uses.
                                               feet*
                                                                                           Single-
                                                                                           family
                                                                                           detached
                    10,000 80                                                              dwelling
                    square feet                                                            units with
                    feet                       10                                          central
                                               feet                                        sewage and
                                               min                                         water
Suburban                                 35    25    20   2.5 story                        systems.
Residential  RS-2                30%     feet  feet  feet or 35     16 feet   n/a          Single-
2                                              total      feet                             family
                    15,000                     35                                          detached
                    square 100                 feet*                                       dwelling
                    feet   feet                                                            units
                                                                                           without
                                                                                           central
                                                                                           sewage
                    1 acre 120                                                             All other
                           feet                                                            uses.
                                                                                           Single-
                    7,500                      10                                          family
Urban               square                     feet       2.5 story                        detached
Residential  RU-1   feet   60    30%     25          25   or 35     16 feet   n/a          dwelling
1                          feet          feet        feet feet                             units.
                    20,000                     25                                          All other
                    square                     feet                                        uses.
                    feet
                                                                                           Single-
                    7,500  60                                                              family
                    square feet                10                                          detached
                    feet                       feet                                        dwelling
Urban                                    25    min   25   2.5 story                        units.
Residential  RU-2   10,000 80    30%     feet  25    feet or 35     16 feet   n/a          Two-family
2                   square feet                feet       feet                             dwelling
                    feet                       total                                       units.
                    20,000 120                                                             All other
                    square feet                                                            uses.
                    feet
                    10,000 80
                    square feet                                                            Two-family
                    feet                                                                   dwelling
                                                                                           units.
                                                                                           15,000
                                                                                           square
                                                                                           feet for
                                               10                                          first 3
                                               feet                                        dwellings.
Multi-              15,000                     min        2.5 story                        Units plus
Family       RM-1   square 120   25%     25    25    25   or 35     16 feet   n/a          2,000
Residential         feet   feet          feet  feet  feet feet                             square
                                               total                                       feet for
                                               25                                          each
                                               feet*                                       additional
                                                                                           dwelling
                                                                                           unit.


                    20,000 120                                                             All other
                    square feet                                                            uses.
                    feet
                    10,000 80
                    square feet                                                            Two-family
                    feet                                                                   dwelling
                                                                                           units.
                                                                                           15,000
                                                                                           square
                                                                                           feet for
                                               10                                          first 3
                                               feet                                        dwellings.
Multi-              15,000                     min        2.5 story                        Units plus
Family       RM-2   square 120   25%     25    25    25   or 35     16 feet   n/a          4,000
Residential         feet   feet          feet  feet  feet feet                             square
                                               total                                       feet for
                                               25                                          each
                                               feet*                                       additional
                                                                                           dwelling
                                                                                           unit.


                    20,000 120                                                             All other
                    square feet                                                            uses.
                    feet
                                                                                           Mobile
Mobile Home         Min 10 Michigan Mobile Home Commission Act, as amended,                home site
Residential  MH-1   acres  Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301n/a          within a
                           - 125.2350, and §150.072 of this code                          mobile
                                                                                           home park
                                                                                           Uses with
                    10,000 80                  10                                          central
                    square feet                feet                                        sewage and
                    feet                 25    min   25   2.5 story                        water
Office       O-1                 30%     feet  25    feet or 35     25 feet   n/a          systems.
                    15,000                     feet       feet                             Uses
                    square 100                 total                                       without
                    feet   feet                                                            central
                                                                                           sewage.
                                                                                           Uses with
                    10,000 75                                                              central
                    square feet  Revised       20                                          sewage and
Local               feet         10-31-  35    feet  35                       15 feet wide water
Commercial   C-1                 1992    feet  35    feet 35 feet   n/a       and fence,   systems.
                    15,000       35%           feet*                          wall, or     Uses
                    square 100                                                hedge 4-     without
                    feet   feet                                               6 feet if    central
                                                                              abutting a   sewage.
                                                                              residential  Uses with
                    10,000 75                                                 district, 20 central
                    square feet  Revised       20                             feet wide,   sewage and
General      C-2    feet         10-31-  35    feet  20   35 feet   n/a       landscaped   water
Commercial                       1992    feet  35    feet                     strip if     systems.
                    15,000 100   35%           feet*                          Uses without
                    square feet                                               central
                    feet                                                      sewage.
Highway             15,000       Revised       20
Service      C-3    square 100   10-31-  35    feet  20   35 feet   n/a                     
Commercial          feet   feet  1992    feet  35    feet
                                 35%           feet*
                    20,000       Revised       20
Light        I-1    square 80    10-31-  35    feet  35   35 feet   n/a       25 feet wide  
Industrial          feet   feet  1992    feet  35    feet                     and fence >4
                                 35%           feet*                          feet but <6
                                                                              feet high if
                                                                              abutting a
                                                                              residential
                                                                              district 20
                                 Revised       20                             feet wide
Heavy        I-2    2      200   10-31-  35    feet  35   35 feet   n/a       land-scaped   
Industrial          acres  feet  1992    feet  35    feet                     strip if
                                 35%           feet*                          fronting a
                                                                              public
                                                                              street


NOTES TO TABLE:
* Corner lot.
*** In Central Business District, no lot requirements, yard requirements, or transition strips are
required; only side yard and rear yard when abutting residential districts.
 
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.2, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§ 150.147 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered to
exceed the height; to occupy a greater percentage of lot area; to have narrower
or smaller rear yards, side yards, or other open spaces than prescribed for the
district in which the building or structure is located.
   (B)   (1)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
for the district in which the yard or lot is located.
      (2)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (C)   No part of a yard or other open space required for or in connection
with, any structure for the purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be
included as part of a yard or open space similarly required for any other
structure.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.3, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.148 YARD MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   Lots which abut on more than 1 street shall provide the required front
yards along every street (except as noted in §
150.146).
   (B)   All front, side, and rear yards shall be the minimum perpendicular
distance measured from the principal structure, excluding all projections not
exceeding 3 feet in length from the structure wall.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.4, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.149 LOT WIDTH.
   (A)   The width of a lot shall be the horizontal distance between the side
lot lines measured at 90 degrees to the lot depth.
   (B)   The line used to measure lot width shall be located as close as
possible to the rear line of the required front yard.
   (C)   No part of the measuring line shall not include any portion thereof in
a street right-of-way or a street or drive easement.
   (D)   The frontage of a lot on a street right-of-way or a street or easement
shall not be less than 80% of the required lot width, except in the case of
lots on a turning circle of a cul-de-sac street.
   (E)   On a cul-de-sac, the front yard line shall be at the point where 80%
of the required width is reached along a line measured parallel to the tangent
to the deepest protrusion of the arc describing the road right-of-way through
the front of the property.
   (F)   In no case shall the distance between the above described tangent and
front yard line be less than the required front yard setback for the zoning
district in question.
   (G)   The above-described tangent may not be less than 30 feet in width at
the road right-of-way line.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.5, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.150 HEIGHT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Exceptions to the maximum height regulations for each
district specified in this chapter may be permitted subject to the following
provisions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Height limitations. The limitations affecting the height of
structures shall not apply to the following appurtenant appendages and
structures provided they comply with all other provisions of this or any other
applicable ordinances; parapet walls, chimneys, smokestacks, church spires,
flagpoles, radio and television towers, penthouses for mechanical equipment,
and water tanks.
      (2)   Increased height. Building height in excess of the height above
average ground level allowed in any district may be permitted provided all
minimum front, side, and rear yard depths are increased 1 foot for each
additional 1 foot of height and provided that adequate fire protection can be
demonstrated. Accessory structures located in any single- and 2-family
residential districts may not be located in front of the primary structure.
      (3)   Airport zoning plan. The airport zoning plan (see §
150.006) may place further limitations on the height of structures on land
included in its study.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.6, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
§ 150.151 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   No detached accessory building or structure shall be located
closer than 10 feet to any other building or structure unless the accessory
building or structure shall have rated firewalls as provided by the Michigan
Construction Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.
      (2)   Detached structures with rated firewalls may be located within 3
feet of any other building or structure.
   (B)   All detached accessory structures in any single- and 2-family
residential district shall be subject to the same dimensional requirements
affecting the principal structure but may not be located in front of the
primary structure. However, the accessory structure may be placed not less than
5 feet from any rear lot line or the rear yard portion of any side lot line;
and shall not exceed 16 feet in height and shall not be located in any portion
of the front yard setback.
   (C)   All accessory structures in non-residential districts shall be subject
to the same standards and requirements as are required for all principal
structures within the districts.
   (D)   (1)   Packing or storage crates, parts or all of a semi-trailer, and
similar converted structures shall not be used as accessory structures in any
zoning district, except agricultural.
      (2)   Railroad cars shall not be used as accessory structures in any
zoning district.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.7, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-2019)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.152 DISTANCE BETWEEN GROUPED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the required setback lines provided
elsewhere in this chapter, in group dwellings (including semi-detached and
multiple dwellings) the following minimum distances shall be required between
each dwelling.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Where buildings are front-to-front or front to rear, 3 times the
height of the taller building, but not less than 70 feet.
      (2)   Where buildings are side to side, 1 times the height of the taller
building but not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Where buildings are front to side, rear to side, or rear-to-rear, 2
times the height of the taller building but not less than 45 feet.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.8, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.153 PETS.
   (A)   In all residential zoning districts, dog houses, pens, kennels, and
runways shall be placed not less than 5 feet from any rear or side lot line.
   (B)   (1)   The keeping of wild or undomesticated animals is prohibited in
all residential zoning districts, the animals to include but not to be limited
to: opossum, raccoon, bears, deer, moose, elk, snakes, wild cats such as
mountain lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, ocelots, wolves, elephants, and
other such wild game.
      (2)   The keeping of farm animals is also prohibited in all residential
districts, except that horses may be kept in rural non-farm residential
districts on parcels of 10 or more acres.
      (3)   Refer to
Chapter 92 for additional restrictions.
   (C)   Chickens.
      (1)   Chickens may be kept on a lot or premises zoned residential and
greater than 1 acre in size except where prohibited by private restrictions on
the use of the property. Private restrictions shall remain enforceable and take
precedence. Private restrictions include, but are not limited to deed
restrictions, neighborhood associations by-laws, master deed, and covenant
deeds.
      (2)   Any person keeping chickens shall be required to file a Zoning and
Building Application and be subject to any applicable fees.
      (3)   A person who keeps or houses chickens on his or her property shall
comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Keep no more than 6 chickens.
         (b)   The principal use of the person's property is for a single-
family dwelling.
         (c)   No person shall keep any roosters.
         (d)   The chickens shall be provided a covered enclosure at all times.
Fenced enclosures are subject to all provisions of §
150.172 of this chapter and shall require a permit.
         (e)   A person shall not keep chickens in any location on property
other than the backyard and subject to the setback provisions of §
150.146. For purposes of this section, "backyard" means that portion of a lot
enclosed by the property's rear lot line and side lot lines to the points where
the side lot lines intersect with an imaginary line established by the rear of
the single-family structure and extending to the side lot line.
         (f)   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located closer
than 100 feet to any residential structure on an adjacent property.
         (g)   The covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be kept in good
repair.
         (h)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens
that are likely to attract rats, mice, or other rodents shall be protected so
as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from gaining access.
         (i)   The keeping of chickens shall not cause a hazard or nuisance to
neighboring properties.
(Ord. -, Article IV, § 4.7.9, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 3-28-2017)
Penalty, see §
150.999
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.165 PURPOSE OF SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   It is the purpose of §§
150.165 et seq.,
150.190 et seq.,
150.215 et seq.,
150.235 et seq.,
150.250 et seq.,
150.270 et seq.,
150.295 et seq.,
150.315 et seq., and
150.330 et seq. to provide regulations and requirements that supplement the
provisions contained under the respective district regulations in §§
150.035,
150.050 et seq.,
150.065 et seq.,
150.085,
150.100 et seq.,
150.115 et seq.,
150.130 et seq., and
150.145 et seq., and may or may not apply in all zoning districts.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.166 STORAGE OF MATERIALS.
   (A)   Generally. The location or storage of abandoned, discarded, unused,
unusable, or inoperative vehicles, appliances, furniture, equipment, or
material shall be regulated as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   On any lot in any agricultural district, residential district, or
commercial district, the owner or tenant, but not for hire or for business,
shall locate and store the materials within a completely enclosed building.
      (2)   On any lot in any industrial district, the owner or tenant, whether
or not for hire or for business, shall locate and store the materials within a
completely enclosed building or within an area surrounded by a solid, unpierced
fence or wall at least 7 feet in height and not less in height than the
materials located or stored therein, and not closer to the lot lines than the
minimum yard requirements for buildings permitted in the districts.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall permit the storage or parking of any
vehicle or non-permanent structure within the required front yard of any lot
within a residential district, except that the parking of a passenger vehicle
on a driveway located on private property shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.9, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.167 MOBILE HOME AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   (A)   A mobile home shall not be used or occupied other than as a single-
family dwelling.
   (B)   (1)   A travel trailer or motor home shall not be used or occupied as
a dwelling except in a duly licensed travel trailer or motor home park.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a permit for the
use and occupancy of a travel trailer or motor home as a temporary dwelling for
a period not to exceed 2 weeks, provided that the travel trailer or motor home
is situated on a parcel of land which has access to water and sanitary
facilities.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.10, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.168 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On any corner lot in any zoning district requiring front and side yards, no
fence, wall, hedge, screen, sign, structure, vegetation, or planting shall be
allowed to impede vision between a height of 2 feet and 8 feet above the
centerline grades within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street
right-of-way lines and a straight line joining the 2 street lines at points
which are 30 feet distant from the point of intersection, measured along the
street right-of-way line.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.11, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.169 ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   In any residential district, (except Rural Non-Farm (RNF-1), District
1), commercial district, and industrial district, every use, building, or
structure established after effective date of this chapter shall be on lot or
parcel which adjoins a public street.
   (B)   In any agricultural (AG-1) and Rural Non-Farm (RNF-1) district, every
use, building, or structure established after the effective date of this
chapter shall be on lot or parcel, which adjoins a public or private easement
of access to a public street.
   (C)   In any district where a private road/street, right-of-way, or easement
serves as access to a public street/road and serves more than 1 and less than 5
one- and/or 2-family dwelling units whether or not separately held, the street/
road shall meet the requirements of §§
90.01 et seq. as to composition, width, and other applicable requirements.
   (D)   In any district where a private road/street, right-of-way, or easement
serves as access to a public street/road and serves more than 1 commercial or
industrial use, business, activity or more than 4 one- and/or 2-family
dwellings whether or not separately held, the street/road, easement, or right-
of-way shall meet the Jackson County Road Commission standard for a public
street/road as to composition, width, and other applicable requirements.
   (E)   Sections
90.01 et seq. and or the Jackson County Road Commission Standards for a Public
Street shall not apply to accessory structures in an Agricultural (AG-1)
District.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.12, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.170 FLOOD PLAINS.
   (A)   Structures built on land subject to periodic flooding shall be subject
to applicable state and federal regulations and laws governing construction in
flood plains and
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit by the township, the owner
or his or her agent of the flood plain property shall submit to the Township
Building Coordinator evidence of receipt of any necessary approval or permit
issued by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   (C)   The building of the structures shall be subject to the provisions of
the State Construction Code as adopted and enforced by the township in addition
to any state and federal rules, regulations, or statutes.
   (D)   The rules and regulations established by the State Construction Code
shall be deemed to be minimum standards subject to more stringent standards
that may be established by the state or federal government.
   (E)   The location and boundaries of property subject to periodic flooding
shall be determined by reference to the U.S. Soil Conservation Service, the
U.S. Army Corp of Engineers, or other authority having jurisdiction to
establish the location and boundaries of land subject to periodic flooding.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.13, passed 9-12-2006 ; Am. Ord. passed 1-12-2010)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.171 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Generally. A home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
   (B)   Type 1 home occupation. A type 1 home occupation, as defined by §
150.006, must meet the following criteria in order to ensure that there will be
no evidence that a business is being conducted from the premises.
      (1)   Location and employees. The home occupation shall be conducted
solely within the dwelling unit by the resident of that unit.
      (2)   Equipment or process. No equipment or process shall be used in the
home occupation which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor, or
electrical interference detectable to the normal human senses beyond the
exterior walls of the dwelling unit in which the home occupation is conducted.
      (3)   Noise. The home occupation shall not generate noise that is audible
beyond the exterior walls of the dwelling.
      (4)   Exterior alterations.
         (a)   There shall be no exterior alteration in the residential
character of the premises in connection with the home occupation and no more
than 25% of the living area will be devoted to the home occupation.
         (b)   No signs shall be displayed identifying the home occupation.
      (5)   Display of merchandise. No merchandise or articles for sale shall
be displayed for advertising purposes so as to be viewable from outside the
dwelling and no sign or device relative to the sale of the merchandise shall be
displayed on the premises.
      (6)   Storage.
         (a)   All articles or materials used in connection with the home
occupation shall be stored in the main and permitted accessory buildings.
         (b)   No outside storage is permitted.
         (c)   The storage of materials and merchandise shall not represent a
safety hazard to the dwelling, dwelling occupants, or adjoining properties and
occupants, nor shall the storage result in a change to the fire rating of the
dwelling and accessory building in which the storage may be conducted.
      (7)   Traffic and parking.
         (a)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood.
         (b)   The home occupation shall not require any on or off street
parking other than normally required for a residence.
         (c)   There shall be no more than 1 delivery per week to the residence
by suppliers, except that delivery of mail and small packages by the United
States Postal Service or by alternative private delivery services shall not be
included as supplier deliveries.
         (d)   In no instance shall a delivery of any kind be made via a
vehicle larger than a step-type van.
      (8)   Sale of products. There shall be no sale of products or services
except as are produced on the premises by the home occupation, except that
products not produced on the premises that are incidental to services being
performed as a part of the home occupation may be sold in limited quantities.
   (C)   Type 2 home occupation. A type 2 home occupation, as defined by §
150.006, requires a conditional use permit including additional development
requirements for certain uses listed in §
150.257.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.14, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.172 FENCES.
   (A)   Fence heights.
      (1)   Residential districts.
         (a)   Fences in all residential districts, whether or not the same
fully enclose a property, shall not exceed 6 feet in height as measured from
ground level in side yards and backyards.
         (b)   Fencing in front yards shall not exceed 4 feet in height, as
measured from ground level.
         (c)   Front yards, for the discussion of fencing, are defined as the
property located between the street/road right-of-way and the front facade of
the building.
         (d)   Yards bordering any street right-of-way shall be considered
front yards.
         (e)   In all cases, ground level does not include berms, but would
include any terracing needed to make a yard usable.
      (2)   Other districts.
         (a)   Fences in all other districts shall not exceed 6 feet in height,
except as otherwise required by this chapter or the Planning Commission in the
site plan review process.
         (b)   Fences in commercial, office, and industrial districts may be
required to exceed 6 feet in height where the same abut office or residential
districts.
   (B)   Fencing material requirements.
         (a)   In no case shall barbed wire be used in any residential, office,
or commercial district and razor wire will only be used in those districts to
secure essential services.
         (b)   Application can be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
deviating from these requirements in the Rural Non-Farm District.
         (c)   In all cases, the fronts of fences shall face street rights-of-
way and adjoining properties.
   (C)   Fence permit requirements.
      (1)   A fencing permit is required for the erection of all fences.
      (2)   A site plan with the location of the proposed fencing and its
position in regards to street/road rights-of-way and the main structure on the
site shall be submitted to the township using the building application.
      (3)   The fee for the permit shall be established by the Township Board.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.15, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.173 TEMPORARY USE.
   Circuses, carnivals, flea markets, organized special events or other
transient enterprises may be permitted in any district upon written
recommendation of the Zoning Administrator and approval of the Summit Township
Board subject to the following:
   (A)   The applicant for this use or event shall submit a preliminary site
plan, and in writing, describe the event or use, its duration, proposed traffic
flow, describe how refuse and sanitation will be handled, indicate parking
requirements, identify any nuisances or public safety issues this may create
and how it will be mitigated.
   (B)   If the use will require the assistance of the Summit Sheriff
Detachment and/or Fire Department, or any other township services, the
applicant must obtain a special event permit from the township for which there
will be an appropriate charge.
   (C)   In the interest of ensuring compliance with the Zoning Ordinance
provisions, protecting the natural resources and health, safety, and welfare of
the residents, paying for township facilities and assistance, and returning the
site to its original condition, the applicant may be required to deposit a
performance guarantee in an amount determined by the Township Board.
   (D)   Proposed signage shall conform to the provisions of the district in
which the use or event is located, as set forth in §
150.190 (Signs), except if the location of the use or event abuts a residential
district or if the use or event is proposing promotional advertising beyond the
location of the use or event, then the signage must comply with the individual
sign location on a case-by-case basis.
   (E)   Any owner, possessor or occupier or any person, firm or corporation
having charge of this use or event that violates any provision or shall fail to
comply with any requirement of the Township Board shall be responsible for a
penalty under §
150.999.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.16, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 3-28-2017)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.174 CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Curb cuts and driveways may be located only upon approval by the
Building Inspector and any other county and state authorities as required by
law.
   (B)   The approval shall not be given where the curb cuts and driveways
shall unnecessarily increase traffic hazards.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.17, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.175 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Generally. Swimming pools in all districts are subject to the
following conditions.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   Swimming pools shall conform to the side yard and rear yard
requirements of the district in which they are located, and shall not be
located within any portion of a prescribed front yard.
      (2)   Swimming pools shall be subject to the provisions of the State
Construction Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.18, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.176 POLES.
   (A)   Poles used for interior lighting, security, public address systems, or
other similar purposes on a parcel of land which is located in an office,
commercial or industrial district which pole or poles are not part of a public
utility as defined in §
150.006 shall be subject to the height requirements for a principal structure
in each district and a setback from all front, side and rear lot lines of 5
feet.
   (B)   Additionally, provision of §§
150.315 et seq. shall be observed.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may, as part of a site plan review, allow a
pole for the above mentioned purposes to be located closer to a front, side, or
rear lot line than otherwise provided in this chapter providing that no part of
any such pole shall extend beyond the property line of the parcel.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.19, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.177 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the generally applicable minimum lot frontage/lot
width and minimum lot area per dwelling unit requirements of this chapter, land
zoned for residential development may be developed, at the option of the
landowner, with the same number of dwelling units that could otherwise be
developed on the land under existing ordinances, laws, and the open space
preservation provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public
Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as it applies to single-
family residential development, on not more that 50% of the land, if all of the
following apply.
      (1)   The land is zoned at a density equivalent to 2 or fewer dwelling
units per acre; or, if the land is served by a public sewer system, 3 or fewer
dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Not less than 50% of the land area will remain perpetually in an
undeveloped state by means of a conservation easement, plat dedication,
restrictive covenant, or other legal means that runs with the land.
      (3)   The development does not depend upon the extension of a public
sewer or public water supply system, unless development of the land without the
exercise of the development option provided by this provision would also depend
upon such an extension.
      (4)   The development option provided pursuant to this section has not
previously been exercised with respect to the subject property.
      (5)   The development of land under this section is subject to all other
applicable ordinances, laws, and
rules, including, but not limited to the provisions of this chapter that are
not in conflict with and preempted by the open space preservation provisions of
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.:
         (a)   The Land Division Act (formerly the Subdivision Control Act), as
amended, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293;
         (b)   Any ordinance regulating the division of land, the platting of
land into subdivisions, or the creation of a site condominium;
         (c)   Rules relating to suitability of groundwater for on site water
supply for land not served by public water;
         (d)   Rules relating to suitability of soils for on-site water supply
for land not served by public water;
         (e)   Rules relating to suitability of soils for on-site sewage
disposal for land not served by public sewers; and
         (f)   A developer may develop the same number of units that would be
allowed under existing zoning.
   (B)   (1)   The developer must submit 2 preliminary development plans.
      (2)   The first plan should be a viable plan under the existing
ordinance, which would then establish the number of units that could be
developed in the open space preservation plan under the Site Plan and Planned
Residential 1 (PR-1) rules, subject to the provisions of §§
150.270 et seq.
   (C)   (1)   All residential projects shall be subject to the provisions,
rules, regulation, and procedures set forth in this chapter for Agricultural
(AG-1), Rural Non-Farm (RNF-1), and Suburban Residential 1 (RS-1).
      (2)   The Planned Residential Development District shall apply to any
residential projects of the zoning district in which the project is situated or
located.
      (3)   The development projects shall be subject to the requirements of §§
150.270 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.21, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.178 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The intent of this provision is to provide for the comfort, privacy,
and well-being of adjacent homeowners or business personnel.
   (B)   Landscaping must be provided to eliminate obtrusive light and sound
from carrying to the adjoining property as part of the site plan for the
proposed facilities that will adjoin existing facilities.
   (C)   The screening shall be of sufficient size and foliage character that
it will accomplish the intent of this provision within 1 year of completion.
   (D)   Unhealthy, dead, or otherwise objectionable trees and/or shrubs must
be replaced in a timely manner.
   (E)   Screening shrubbery should be of the variety and size compatible with
the surroundings and selected by a qualified landscaping professional.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.22, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.179 NEW OR CONVERSIONS CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS.
   Prior to approving a new or conversion condominium project, the Master Deed
for such project shall contain a Hold Harmless Provision to the fullest extent
permissible under state law, releasing the township from:
   (A)   Claims of defective on-site water and sanitary sewer service lines of
the condominium project; and
   (B)   Claims for personal injury or property damage suffered as a result of
either a water or sanitary sewer line failure resulting in flooding or a sewer
back-up within the condominium development, through no fault of the township’s
water distribution or sanitary sewer collections systems.
(Ord. -, passed 10-12-2004)
Cross-reference:
   For additional regulations on water and sewer, see Chapters
50 and
51
   Site condominium projects, see §
150.130(C)(8)
§ 150.180 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN PERMITTED USES.
   A certificate of occupancy will not be issued by the Zoning Administrator
for the uses specified in this section unless they comply with the development
requirements specified herein.
   (A)   Medical marihuana caregiver grow operation.
      (1)   An application for a medical marihuana facility certificate of
occupancy shall be made in writing to the Township Clerk, who is authorized to
create application forms and to receive and process applications and to
thereafter grant, deny, suspend, or revoke the certificate of occupancy as set
forth in this section. Applications shall be on forms supplied by and to be
filed with the Township Clerk. The application shall be signed and dated by the
applicant. This application and subsequent certificate of occupancy allows its
holder to engage in the use, cultivation, or distribution of medical marihuana
only to the extent it is lawful under state and federal law. The application
shall contain the following information, plus any other information deemed
necessary by the Township Clerk:
         (a)   The name and any alias used, address, and telephone number of
the applicant;
         (b)   The location of the medical marihuana facility and a brief
description of the amount of marihuana to be distributed, or number of plants
to be grown on the premises, if any;
         (c)   A copy of the medical marihuana registry card for each
qualifying patient and the primary caregiver;
         (d)   The applicant’s criminal record, if any;
         (e)   An authorization for the Sheriff Department, to carry out a
background investigation on the applicant;
         (f)   If the applicant is not the owner of the proposed location of
the medical marihuana facility, a notarized statement from the owner of the
property authorizing submission of the application;
         (g)   An acknowledgment by the applicant that he or she, as well as
his or her qualifying patients, may be subject to prosecution under federal and
state laws relating to the possession and distribution of controlled
substances, and that the township accepts no legal liability in connection with
the approval and operation of the medical marihuana caregiver grow facility;
and
         (h)   A statement that the information provided is true and accurate
and that, if a certificate of occupancy is granted, the applicant will abide by
all applicable ordinances and statutes.
      (2)   The names and other identifying information of any qualifying
patient or registered primary caregiver gathered for the purposes of this
section shall be exempt from disclosure pursuant to the MMMA.
      (3)   All certificates of occupancy are subject to the following
conditions, which shall be noted on the application form:
         (a)   The applicant shall permit inspection of the premises and/or
activity at reasonable times by any authorized representative of the township;
         (b)   The applicant shall not operate a medical marihuana facility at
any time after the certificate of occupancy is suspended or revoked; and
         (c)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless and until the
applicant, if deemed necessary by the Sheriff Department, submits to being
fingerprinted and photographed as part of the background investigation.
      (4)   Any person who has been under any sentence, including parole,
probation, or actual incarceration, for the commission of a felony within 5
years preceding the date of application shall be disqualified from receiving a
certificate of occupancy to operate a medical marihuana caregiver facility.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a certificate of occupancy to
the applicant if the applicant has met the requirements of this section and all
applicable state and local laws, and the applicant has paid the certificate of
occupancy fee.
      (6)   A certificate of occupancy issued pursuant to this section does not
eliminate the need for the applicant to obtain other licenses and permits (e.g.
building, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, water and sewer, and the like)
required for the operation of a medical marihuana facility. The pertinent
inspectors must provide a report confirming that all lights, plumbing,
equipment, and all other means proposed to be used to cultivate marihuana
plants are in accordance with applicable code(s).
      (7)   Medical marihuana caregiver grow operation shall not be permitted
as home occupations.
      (8)   No medical marihuana caregiver grow operation may operate in close
proximity to sites where children are regularly present or a residential zoned
district. Such operations must adhere to the following minimum distances:
         (a)   More than 1,000 feet from a daycare facility (see Public Act 110
of 2006);
         (b)   More than 1,000 feet from a church, synagogue, mosque, or other
religious institution;
         (c)   More than 1,000 feet from a public park or community center,
library, or township hall;
         (d)   More than 1,000 feet from a public or private pre-school,
elementary school, high school, community college, including all other schools
that have different name references but serve students of the same age;
         (e)   More than 1,000 feet from an adult entertainment use as defined
by this code;
         (f)   More than 1,000 feet of another medical marihuana grow facility
or a medical marihuana home use; and
         (g)   More than 500 feet of a residential zoning district or another
living unit in any district.
      (9)   The primary caregiver may cultivate up to 60 marihuana plants
provided that not more than 12 marihuana plants are cultivated per qualifying
patient, not including the caregiver. The primary caregiver may cultivate up to
12 additional marihuana plants if he or she is also a qualifying patient. The
plants maintained for each qualifying patient must be kept in an enclosed
locked facility, as defined by the MMMA.
      (10)   The primary caregiver may possess up to 12½ ounces of marihuana
provided that not more than 2½ ounces are possessed per qualifying patient, not
including the caregiver. The primary caregiver may possess up to 2½ ounces of
additional marihuana if he or she is also a qualifying patient. An incidental
amount of seeds, stalks, and roots may also be retained by the primary
caregiver.
      (11)   Consumption of medical marihuana shall not be permitted on the
site of a medical marihuana caregiver grow operation.
      (12)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted on the site of
the medical marihuana caregiver grow operation unless the person is a
registered qualifying patient.
      (13)   A caregiver grow operation shall not be permitted to have drive-
through facilities.
      (14)   The operator of a medical marihuana caregiver grow operation shall
keep a written record in English, on a township form, of all marihuana located
on the premises and of all marihuana or marihuana products distributed and such
other information designated on the form. Copies of registry cards for all
current qualifying patients and the caregiver must be maintained with this
record.
      (15)   There is no authorization for marihuana-related stores,
dispensaries, cooperatives, or other businesses that do not meet the
regulations set by this section for a medical marihuana caregiver grow facility
or medical marihuana home use (see Michigan Attorney General Opinion No. 7259
of 2011).
   (B)   Medical marihuana home use.
      (1)   No person may engage in the activities of a primary caregiver in a
residential district unless a qualifying patient also resides in the home. The
primary caregiver may only grow plants for use by the qualifying patient and
the primary caregiver if he or she is also a qualifying patient.
      (2)   A person engaging in the activities of a primary caregiver in a
residential district may only grow marihuana plants in his or her primary
residence.
      (3)   (a)   No medical marihuana caregiver home use operation may operate
in close proximity to sites where children are regularly present. The
operations must adhere to the following minimum distances:
         (b)   More than 1,000 feet from a public or private pre-school,
elementary school, high school, community college, including all other schools
that have different name references but serve students of the same age.
      (4)   No more than 24 marihuana plants may be grown in a medical
marihuana home use, this number being 12 plants for a registered qualifying
patient, not including the caregiver, plus 12 plants if the primary caregiver
is also a registered qualifying patient. The plants must be kept in an enclosed
locked facility, as defined by the MMMA, and accessible only to the primary
caregiver and the qualifying patient.
      (5)   A primary caregiver, on behalf of a qualifying patient with whom
the primary caregiver resides, may possess an amount of medical marihuana that
does not exceed 2½ ounces of usable marihuana (and an additional 2½ ounces if
the primary caregiver is also a qualifying patient), plus an incidental amount
of seeds, stalks, and roots.
      (6)   The use of the dwelling unit for medical marihuana home use must be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes and no
more than 20% of the gross floor area of the dwelling may be used in any way
for the medical marihuana home use.
      (7)   No change may occur to the outside appearance of the dwelling and
no signs may be posted on the dwelling or lot advertising the medical marihuana
home use.
      (8)   Equipment not normally used for purely domestic or household
purposes or any portion of the dwelling where energy use and heat generation
resulting from the growth of marihuana exceed levels reasonably attributable to
residential uses are permitted only if the Zoning Administrator, or his or her
designee, approves this use. The Zoning Administrator must approve of this use
if he or she is satisfied that the intensity of use will not be increased to a
level that will adversely impact any lot within 300 feet of the dwelling and
that any energy use and heat generation resulting from the growth of marihuana
exceeding levels reasonably attributable to residential uses will not create a
health and safety risk in the dwelling. In the course of making that
determination the Zoning Administrator may find it necessary to order
inspection by the appropriate township inspector(s) with applicable inspection
fees.
      (9)   No activity related to the medical marihuana home use occurring on
the premises may adversely impact the surrounding neighborhood or the right of
surrounding residents to quiet enjoyment of their property, including but not
limited to, the creation of noise, vibrations, odors, heat, glare, unnatural
light, or electrical interference.
      (10)   Storage and manufacture of medical marihuana shall only be
permitted inside of an enclosed, locked facility such as a closet, room or
other closed area equipped with locks or other security devices that only
permit access by the qualifying patient or registered primary caregiver.
      (11)   Qualifying patients, and their primary caregivers, may be subject
to prosecution under federal and state laws relating to the possession and
distribution of controlled substances, and the township accepts no legal
liability in connection with the approval and operation of the medical
marihuana home use; and
      (12)   There is no authorization for marihuana-related store,
dispensaries, cooperative, or other businesses that do not meet the regulations
set by this section for a medical marihuana home use or medical marihuana
caregiver grow facility (see Michigan Attorney General Opinion No. 7259 of
2011).
   (C)   Prohibition of commercial medical marihuana facilities.
      (1)   Uses prohibited. Commercial medical marihuana facilities defined in
this section are prohibited from operating within the township, and no property
within the township may be used for the operation of such facilities. No person
shall operate, cause to be operated, or permit to be operated a commercial
medical marihuana facility in the township.
      (2)   Qualifying patients and primary caregivers. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit, regulate or otherwise impair the use or
cultivation of medical marijuana by qualifying patients and primary caregivers
in strict compliance with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, codified at
M.C.L.A. § 333.26421 et seq., or any rules or regulations promulgated
thereunder. The operation of a dispensary, provisioning center, marihuana
growing facility or similar business operation that allows or facilitates
conduct not expressly permitted under the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act is
prohibited, including but not limited to facilities allowing patient-to-patient
transfers, multiple primary caregivers operating from a single facility, or a
primary caregiver serving more than 5 qualifying patients.
   (D)   Small solar energy facility. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
subsection, small roof-mounted or ground-mounted solar energy facilities shall
be considered a permitted use in all zoning districts as an accessory to a
principal use. A small solar energy facility (as defined in §
150.006) shall be required to have appropriate building permits.
      (1)   All small solar energy facilities are subject to the following
minimum requirements:
         (a)   A small solar energy facility shall provide power for the
principal use and/or accessory use of the property on which the small solar
energy facility is located and shall not be used for the generation of power
for the sale of energy to other users, although this provision shall not be
interpreted to prohibit the sale of excess power generated from time to time to
the local utility company.
         (b)   A small solar energy facility connected to the utility grid
shall provide written authorization from the local utility company to Summit
Township acknowledging and approving such connection.
         (c)   A roof-mounted facility may be mounted on a principal building
or accessory building. A roof-mounted facility, whether mounted on the
principal building or accessory building, may not exceed the maximum principal
building height or accessory building height specified for the building type in
the underlying zoning district. In no instance shall any part of the small
solar energy facility extend beyond the edge of the roof.
         (d)   A ground-mounted facility shall not exceed a height of 12 feet.
         (e)   The surface area of the solar panels of a ground-mounted
facility, regardless of the mounted angle, shall be calculated as part of the
overall lot coverage.
         (f)   A ground-mounted facility or roof-mounted facility attached to
an accessory building shall not be located within the required front yard
setback.
         (g)   The minimum ground-mounted small solar energy facility setback
distance from the property lines shall be equivalent to the principal building
setback of the underlying zoning district or the setback of the principal
structure, whichever is greater.
         (h)   All mechanical equipment associated with and necessary for the
operation of the small solar energy facility shall comply with the following:
            1.   Mechanical equipment shall be screened from any adjacent
property that is residentially zoned or used for residential purposes. The
screen shall consist of shrubbery, trees, or other non-invasive plant species
which provides a visual screen. At least 50% of plants must be evergreen. In
lieu of a planting screen, a decorative fence that meets the requirements of §
150.172 and is at least 50% opaque may be used.
            2.   Mechanical equipment shall not be located within the minimum
front yard setback of the underlying zoning district.
            3.   Mechanical equipment for ground-mounted facilities shall
comply with the setbacks specified for principal structures in the underlying
zoning district.
         (i)   Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar
radiation or glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties or roadways.
         (j)   All power transmission lines from a ground-mounted small solar
energy facility to any building or other structure shall be located
underground.
         (k)   A small solar energy facility shall not be used to display
advertising, including signage, streamers, pennants, spinners, reflectors,
ribbons, tinsel, balloons, flags, banners or similar materials. The
manufacturers and equipment information, warning, or indication of ownership
shall be allowed on any equipment of the solar energy facility provided they
comply with the prevailing sign regulations.
         (l)   1.   The design of the small solar energy facility shall conform
to applicable industry standards. A building/zoning permit shall be obtained
prior to construction. In the case of a roof-mounted facility, the existing
roof structure and the weight of the facility shall be taken into consideration
when applying for a small solar energy facility permit.
            2.   All wiring shall comply with the applicable version of
Michigan’s construction codes. The local utility provider shall be contacted to
determine grid interconnection and net metering policies. The applicant shall
submit certificates of design compliance obtained by the equipment manufacturer
from a certifying organization and any such design shall be certified by an
engineer registered in the State of Michigan.
         (m)   The small solar energy facility shall comply with all applicable
township ordinances and codes so as to ensure the structural integrity of such
facility.
         (n)   Before any construction can commence on any small solar energy
facility the property owner must acknowledge that he or she is the responsible
party for owning/leasing and maintaining the solar energy facility.
      (2)   If a ground-mounted small solar energy facility is removed, any
earth disturbance as a result of the removal of the ground-mounted facility
shall be graded and reseeded.
      (3)   If a ground-mounted small solar energy facility has been abandoned
(meaning not having been in operation for a period of 180 consecutive days), is
defective, or is deemed to be unsafe by the Building Official, the facility
shall be required to be repaired by the owner to meet federal, state and local
safety standards or be removed by the property owner within the time period
allowed by the Building Official. If the owner fails to remove or repair the
defective or abandoned small solar energy facility, the township may pursue a
legal action to have the facility removed at the owner’s expense.
      (4)   Solar access. The township makes no assurance of solar access other
than the provisions contained within this subsection. The applicant may provide
evidence of covenants, easements, or similar documentation for abutting
property owners providing access to solar energy for the operation of a solar
energy facility.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 122, passed 5-9-2017; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
Penalty, see §
150.999
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 150.190 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate on-site and outdoor
advertising to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare, to
protect property values, and to protect the character of the various
neighborhoods in the township.
   (B)   The principal features are the restriction of advertising to the use
of the premises on which the sign is located and restrictions by zoning
district of the total sign area and height.
   (C)   Any sign placed on land or on a building for the purpose of
identification or for advertising a use conducted on the premises shall be
deemed an accessory use.
   (D)   It is intended that the display of signs will be appropriate to the
land, building, or use to which they are an accessory and be adequate, but not
excessive, for the intended purpose of identification or advertisement.
   (E)   With respect to signs advertising business uses, it is specifically
intended, among other things, to avoid excessive competition and clutter among
sign displays.
   (F)   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards), which advertise products or
businesses not connected with the site or building on which they are located,
are deemed to constitute a principle use of a lot.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.1, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.191 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer advertises or identifies a business,
lesser, owner, or activity conducted upon or product available on the premises
where the sign is displayed.
   ANIMATED SIGN OR CHANGING MESSAGE SIGN. Any sign which includes action or
motion, the optical illusion of action or motion, or color changes of all or
any part of the sign facing, requires electrical energy or is set in motion by
movement of the atmosphere or a sign made up of a series of sections that turn
and stop to show 2 or more pictures or messages in the copy area. An ELECTRICAL
MESSAGE SIGN is 1 type of this sign.
   ANNOUNCEMENT BULLETIN. A CHANGING MESSAGE SIGN used by a church, civic
organization, public building, or school, which may include an ELECTRONIC
MESSAGE SIGN.
   BILLBOARD. See OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
   BUSINESS CENTER. A group of 2 or more separate commercial establishments
which:
      (1)   Although separated by walls, are under 1 common ownership or
management, share a common parking area, or otherwise present an appearance of
1 continuous commercial area; or
      (2)   Have a common arrangement for the maintenance of the grounds and
are connected by party walls, partitions, covered canopies or other structural
members to form 1 continuous structure.
   CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to or constructed within or on a
canopy or marquee.
   COMMUNITY WELCOME SIGN. An off-premises sign erected or authorized by the
township for the purpose of displaying the names, information and emblems of
service clubs, places of worship, civic organizations, and quasi-public uses.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign containing only directional information and the
identification of the activity about public places owned or operated by
federal, state, or local governments or their agencies, publicly or privately
owned natural phenomena, historic, cultural, scientific, educational, or
religious site, deemed to be in the interest of the traveling public.
   DISTRICT. Zoning district as established by this chapter.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN. A sign capable of displaying words, symbols,
figures or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote
or automatic means, including animated graphics and video.
      (1)   FADE. A mode of message transition on an electronic message sign
accomplished by varying the light intensity, where the first message gradually
and uniformly reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and the
subsequent message gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
      (2)   DISSOLVE. A mode of message transition on an electronic message
sign accomplished by varying the light intensity or pattern, where the first
message gradually and uniformly appears to dissipate and lose legibility
simultaneously with the gradual and uniform appearance and legibility of the
second message.
      (3)   ANIMATED AND FLASHING SIGNS. A sign that has moving, blinking,
chasing, scrolling, or other animation effects, with the exception of fading
and dissolving, either inside or outside a building and which are visible from
a public right-of-way.
      (4)   ELECTRONIC DISPLAY SCREEN. A sign or a portion of a sign, that
displays an electronic image or video, which may or may not include text.
Electronic displays screens include television, plasma, digital, flat, LED
screens, video boards, holographic displays, or other technologies of a similar
nature.
      (5)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign or portion of a sign that uses
changing lights to form a message or messages in text form wherein the sequence
of messages and the rate of change is electronically programmed and can be
modified by electronic processes.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported by a structure independent of any other
structure designed to identify to persons not on the premises, only the title
of the business or profession conducted on the premises, and the information
shall be supported by a structural frame independent of any other structure.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance to the top edge of the copy area or
structure, whichever is higher, as measured from the adjacent street grade.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
      (1)   A sign which carries only the name of the firm, the major
enterprise, or the principal product, or service offered for sale on the
premises or a combination of these things only to identify location of the
premises and not to advertise.
      (2)   The signs shall be located only on the premises on which the firm
or major enterprise in situated, or on which the principal product is offered
for sale.
   OFFICIAL SIGNS AND NOTICES. An official sign or notice, including public
utility signs and public service signs.
   OFF-SITE SIGN (OFF-PREMISES SIGN). A sign other than an on-site sign,
including COMMUNITY WELCOME SIGNS.
   ON-SITE SIGN (ON-PREMISES SIGN). A sign which advertises or identifies only
goods, services, facilities, events, or attractions on the premises where
located.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
      (1)   A sign, including billboards, on which the written or pictorial
information is intended to advertise a use, product, service, goods, event, or
facility located on other premises, and which is intended primarily for
advertising purposes.
      (2)   Those signs are subject to the Highway Advertising Act of 1972, as
amended, Public Act 106 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 et seq.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or a
building.
   SIGN. Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons not
on the premises on which the sign is located, provided, however, that the
following shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding 1 square foot in area bearing only property
numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
      (2)   Flags and insignias of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial connotations;
      (3)   Legal notices, identification, information, or directional signs
erected, or required by government bodies;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights; and/or
      (5)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking to private
property, but bearing no advertising matter. Also see OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN
and FREESTANDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN and sign provisions.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is intended to be displayed for a limited period
of time, as specified in §
150.199.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building with
the face in a plane parallel to the plane of the building wall.
   WINDOW SIGN.
      (1)   A sign installed on or in a window for the purposes of viewing from
outside the premises.
      (2)   This term does not include merchandise located in a window.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.2, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.192 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following regulations shall apply to all signs in
Summit Township.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Illuminated signs.
         (a)   Residential districts. Only indirectly illuminated signs shall
be allowed in any residential district, provided the sign is so shielded as to
prevent direct light rays from being visible from a public right-of-way or any
adjacent residential property.
         (b)   Commercial, wholesale-warehouse, office, research development,
and industrial districts. Indirectly or internally illuminated signs are
permitted provided the signs are so shielded as to prevent direct light rays
from being visible from a public right-of-way or any adjacent residential
property.
         (c)   Writing or printing.
            1.    No sign, including changing message signs, shall have
blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or other illuminating devices which
have a changing light intensity, brightness, or color, or which are so
constructed and operated as to create an appearance of writing or printing or a
traffic signal, except that movement showing date, time, message, and
temperature exclusively shall be permitted.
            2.   An electronic information display shall not flash or animate
static information.
            3.   The only movement permitted is the changing of information
against the solid background.
            4.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing use of lights or decorations related to religious and patriotic
festivities.
            5.   Beacon lights or search lights shall not be permitted as a
sign for advertising purposes except as provided in §
150.199.
         (d)   Signs and wiring. All illuminated signs shall comply with the
applicable National Electrical Code provisions concerning signs and wiring.
      (2)   Measurement of sign area. The area of a sign shall be computed as
including the entire area within a regular geometric form or combination of the
forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed as measured 3 inches in from the outside
border of the geometric form or combination of forms.
      (3)   Height of sign. No freestanding sign shall exceed a height of 35
feet.
      (4)   Setback requirements for signs.
         (a)    All signs shall be set back from the adjacent road by a
distance of not less than ½ of the setback required for a structure on the
parcel as provided for in the setback requirements of this chapter except that
in office, commercial, and industrial districts where parcels adjoin a road
right-of-way which is in excess of 80 feet the setback shall be not less than
1/4 of the required setback for a structure on the parcel.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may, as part of a site plan review,
allow a sign in the above-mentioned exceptions to be closer to the road rights-
of-way provided that no part of any sign extends beyond the subject parcel.
      (5)   Business flags. Business flags shall be permitted in commercial,
office, wholesale and warehousing, research and development, and industrial
zoning districts, subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   The flags shall be located on the same lot as the business
building or use.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, business
flags shall meet the yard requirements for signs and the height limits for
structures in the zoning district in which located.
         (c)   The area of each business flag shall not be included in the sign
area that is permitted on a lot.
         (d)   All business flags shall be set back from adjacent road/street
no less than ½ of the minimum setback required for a structure on the parcel as
provided for in this chapter.
      (6)   Official signs and notices. A sign or notice erected and maintained
by public officers or a public agency within their territorial or zoning
jurisdiction is permitted pursuant to and in accordance with direction or
authorization contained in federal, state, or local law for the purposes of
carrying out an official duty or responsibility. This includes a historical
marker authorized by state law and erected by a state or local government
agency or nonprofit historical society.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.3, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.193 PERMITTED SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. Subject to the other conditions of this chapter, the
following signs shall be permitted anywhere within the township.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Community welcome signs.
         (a)   Off-premises signs, as provided or authorized by the township,
which bear names, information, and emblems of service clubs, places of worship,
civic organizations, and quasi-public uses shall be permitted.
         (b)   Each sign shall be not more than 8 square feet in area, shall
not exceed a height of 8 feet, and shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from
the property line.
         (c)   All signs shall be consolidated within a single-frame, if more
than 1 sign is placed at 1 location.
      (2)   Directional signs.
         (a)   Signs which direct traffic movement onto or within a property,
and which do not exceed 8 square feet in area for each sign, shall be
permitted.
         (b)   Horizontal directional signs, on and flush with paved areas may
exceed 8 square feet.
         (c)   Directional signs shall be located on the property on which they
are directing traffic and shall be located behind the front right-of-way line.
      (3)   Announcement bulletins.
         (a)   One church, civic organization, public building, or school
announcement bulletin, which may include an electronic messaging board, shall
be permitted on any site that contains a church, civic organization, public
building, or school regardless of the district in which it is located, provided
that bulletin does not exceed 32 square feet in area where the speed limit is
45 mph or less, and 60 square feet in area where the speed limit is 46 mph or
more and a height of 8 feet, and is set back from an adjacent road a minimum of
½ of the setback required for a structure on the parcel as provided in this
chapter.
         (b)   When a church, civic organization, public building, or school
has an identification sign as permitted elsewhere in this chapter, the
combination of the signs shall not exceed an additional 8 square feet, allowing
a total of 40 square feet if the speed limit is 45 mph or less or a total of 68
square feet if the speed limit is 46 mph or more.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.4, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.194 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Miscellaneous signs and posters.
      (1)   Tacking, pasting, or otherwise affixing signs or posters that are
visible from a public way, and located on the walls of buildings, barns, sheds,
or on trees, poles, posts, or fences shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Warning signs, such as “no trespassing” and “no hunting” and other
postings required by law shall be exempt from this provision.
   (B)   Banners. Banners, pennants, searchlights, twirling signs, sandwich
board signs, sidewalk or curb signs, balloons, or other gas-filled figures
shall be prohibited, except as provided in §
150.199.
   (C)   Swinging signs. Signs that swing or otherwise noticeably move as a
result of wind pressure because of the manner of suspension or attachment shall
be prohibited.
   (D)   Moving signs. Except as otherwise provided in this section, any sign
or any portion thereof that moves or assumes any motion constituting a non-
stationary or fixed condition shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Parking of advertising vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall park any vehicle or trailer on a public right-of-
way, public property, or on private property so as to be visible from a public
right-of-way, which has attached thereto or located thereon any sign or
advertising device for the purpose of directing people to a business or
activity.
      (2)   Currently licensed vehicles and trailers that have painted upon
them in a permanent manner the name of the product, which they deliver and/or
the name and address of the owner shall be excluded from this provision.
   (F)   Abandoned signs. Signs that advertise an activity, business, product,
or service no longer conducted or available on the premises on which the sign
is located, shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Flags. Flags other than those of any nation, state or political
subdivision, or business as otherwise provided in this chapter shall be
prohibited except as permitted under §
150.199.
   (H)   Portable signs. Portable signs, except any temporary sign permitted in
§
150.199, shall be prohibited.
   (I)   Unclassified signs. The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)   Signs that imitate an official traffic sign or signal which
contains the words stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, or similar words
except as otherwise provided in this section;
      (2)   Signs that are of a size, location, content, coloring, or manner of
illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic-control
device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal or which
obstruct the view in any direction at a street or road intersection;
      (3)   Signs that contain statements, words, or pictures of an obscene,
pornographic, or immoral character;
      (4)   Signs that are painted directly on to a wall or any other part of a
building;
      (5)   Signs that are painted on or attached to any fence or any wall that
is not a structural part of a building except to identify a residence;
      (6)   Signs that emit audible sound, odor, or visible matter; and
      (7)   Roof signs that extend above the peak of the roof.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.5, passed 9-12-2006 ; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.195 PERMITTED SIGNS IN THE AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. The regulations in this section are limited signs in the
AG-1 District.
   (B)   Farm product signs.
      (1)   One on-site sign advertising the type of farm products grown on a
farm premises.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   (C)   Identification signs.
      (1)   One identification sign shall be permitted for each public street
frontage having a curb cut for a vehicle entrance, for a school, church
building, or other authorized use or lawful nonconforming use, except a home
occupation.
      (2)   As permitted in § 150.193(B)(3), an 8 square foot identification
sign is allowed as part of an announcement bulletin.
      (3)   Each sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   (D)   Type 2 home occupation identification signs.
      (1)   One identification sign shall be permitted for a type 2 home
occupation.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed 3 square feet in area and shall be
attached flat against the front wall of the building.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.6, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.196 PERMITTED SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. The regulations in this section are limited signs in the
RNF-1, RS-1, RS-2, RU-1, RU- 2, RM-1, RM-2, MH-1, and PR-1 Districts.
   (B)   Identification signs for various developments.
      (1)   One identification sign shall be permitted for each public street
frontage of a subdivision, a multiple-family building development, or a
manufactured housing community.
      (2)   Each sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (3)   One additional sign advertising “For Rent” or “Vacancy” may be
placed on each public street frontage of a rental residential development
provided that the sign shall not exceed 3 square feet in area and is
incorporated into the identification sign.
      (4)   Each sign shall be set back not less than 5 feet from the right-of-
way line of any public street, and shall not exceed 4 feet in height.
   (C)   General identification signs.
      (1)   One identification sign shall be permitted for each public street
frontage having a driveway for a school, church, public building, or other
authorized use or lawful nonconforming use, except type 2 home occupations.
      (2)   Where an announcement bulletin as permitted in §
150.193 is combined, the identification sign shall not exceed 8 feet in height.
   (D)   Type 2 home occupation identification signs.
      (1)   One identification sign shall be permitted for a type 2 home
occupation.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed 3 square feet in area and shall be
attached flat against the front wall of the building.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.7, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.197 PERMITTED SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL, OFFICE, AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The regulations in this section are limited to signs in the O-1, C-
1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2, PO-1, PC-1, and PI-2 Districts.
      (2)   On-site canopy or marquee signs, wall signs, and freestanding signs
are permitted in all commercial, office, and industrial districts subject to
the following conditions.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   Signs permitted for single buildings on developed lots or group of
lots developed as 1 lot, not in a business center subject to division (B)(2)
below:
         (a)   Area. Each developed lot shall be permitted at least 1
freestanding exterior sign and 1 exterior wall sign.
            1.   The area of freestanding exterior signs may be up to 80 square
feet, except where the speed limit is 50 mph or greater, in which case the size
of the sign may be up to 120 square feet on each street frontage.
            2.   The area of exterior wall signs permitted for each lot shall
be determined as 2 square feet of sign area for each 1 linear foot of building
length which faces 1 public street.
         (b)   Number.
            1.   Each developed lot shall be permitted 1 exterior freestanding
on-site sign.
            2.   For every developed lot that has frontage on 2 collector or
arterial streets, 2 exterior on-site signs shall be permitted.
            3.   Only 1 freestanding identification sign shall be permitted on
any street frontage.
            4.   All businesses without ground floor frontage shall be
permitted 1 combined exterior wall sign per road frontage, in addition to the
number of signs allocated to the developed lot.
            5.   The total area of all exterior signs shall not exceed the
total sign area permitted in division (B)(1)(a) above.
      (2)   Signs permitted for a shopping center, office park, industrial
park, or other integrated group of stores, commercial buildings, office
buildings, or industrial buildings, not subject to division (B)(1) above:
         (a)   Freestanding signs.
            1.    Each business center shall be permitted 1 freestanding
identification sign for each frontage on a public street.
            2.   Each sign shall state only the name of the business center and
the major tenants located therein.
            3.   The maximum permitted sign area shall be determined as 1
square foot for each 1 linear foot of building, which faces 1 public street.
            4.   The maximum area for each freestanding sign shall be 200
square feet.
            5.   Tenants of a business center shall not permit individual
freestanding identification signs.
         (b)   Wall signs.
            1.   Each business in a business center with ground floor frontage
shall be permitted 1 exterior wall sign.
            2.    The sign area for such an exterior wall sign shall be
computed as 2 square feet for each 1 linear foot of building frontage occupied
by the business. This area can be divided into another sign on another wall
adjacent to a street.
            3.   All businesses without ground floor frontage shall be
permitted 1 combined exterior wall sign not more than 24 square feet in area.
         (c)   Office, commercial, and industrial park signs.
            1.   A freestanding sign, identifying the primary tenants in an
office park or an industrial park, may be installed at the entrance(s) to a
park.
            2.   Each parcel in a park will be allowed 1 available space on a
park sign.
            3.   Each space shall be no larger than 8 inches x 48 inches.
            4.   Park signs shall be no higher than 6 feet above the height of
the public road at the point of the centerline most closely adjacent to the
sign.
            5.   No park sign shall be greater than 8 feet long.
            6.   All park signs shall be located no closer to an adjacent road
than ½ of the minimum setback required for a structure on the parcel as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   A time and temperature sign shall be permitted in addition to the
above permitted signs, provided that ownership identification or advertising
copy does not exceed 10% of the total sign area and further provided that the
total area of the sign does not exceed 30 square feet.
      (4)   Canopy and marquee signs.
         (a)   No canopy or marquee sign shall extend into a public right-of-
way except by variance granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (b)   In granting the variance, the Board of Appeals shall assure that
the requirements of §
150.367 are complied with; that the minimum clearance of the sign is 8 feet
measured from the sidewalk surface to the bottom edge of the sign; that the
sign does not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular view; and that the sign does not
create a hazard for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (5)   Permitted automobile service station signs.
         (a)   In addition to the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2), an
automobile service station may have 1 additional sign for each public street
frontage having a driveway, for the purpose of advertising gasoline prices and
other services provided on the premises.
         (b)   The sign shall be mounted on a freestanding structure or on the
structure of another permitted sign, provided that clear views of street
traffic by motorists or pedestrians are not obstructed.
         (c)   The sign shall not exceed 8 square feet in area.
      (6)   Prohibited automobile service station signs.
         (a)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of §§
150.165 et seq.,
150.190 et seq.,
150.215 et seq.,
150.235 et seq.,
150.250 et seq.,
150.270 et seq.,
150.295 et seq.,
150.315 et seq., and
150.330 et seq., no signs shall be located on fuel pump islands, except those
constituting an integral part of the pump or those required by state law or
regulation.
         (b)   No signs shall be attached to light standards.
         (c)   No signs shall be attached to fuel pump canopies except those
identifying self-service and full-service pumps or similar messages.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.8, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.198 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS (OFF-SITE SIGNS).
   (A)   Generally. Outdoor advertising signs shall be permitted only in
accordance with the following regulations.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be permitted only in agricultural
districts (AG-1) on state or federal highways, and the C-3, I-1, I-2, PC-1, and
PI-2 districts, subject to the Highway Advertising Act of 1972, as amended,
Public Act 106 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 et seq.
      (2)   Requirements for multiple signs.
         (a)   Where 2 or more outdoor advertising signs are located along the
frontage of a street or highway, they shall be not less than 1,000 feet apart.
         (b)   A double-face (back to back) of a V-type structure shall be
considered a single sign, provided the interior angle of the signs does not
exceed 20 degrees.
      (3)   Requirements for single signs.
         (a)   The total surface area, facing in the same direction, of any
outdoor advertising sign, shall not exceed 300 square feet.
         (b)   Signs may be single- or double-faced and shall contain no more
than 2 faces, or panels.
      (4)   Height requirements for signs.
         (a)   Outdoor advertising signs shall not exceed 20 feet in height
from ground level.
         (b)   The permitted height may be increased to 40 feet by the Zoning
Administrator if it can be shown that excessive grades, buildings, bridges, and
similar conditions obstruct views of the sign.
      (5)   Outdoor advertising signs shall not be erected on the roof of any
building nor have 1 sign above another.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.9, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -) )
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.199 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Single-family and two-family real estate development signs.
      (1)   In single-family and 2-family (RNF-1, RS-1, RS-2, RU-1, RU-2, and
MH-1) districts, 1 sign for each public street frontage advertising a recorded
subdivision or development shall be permitted.
      (2)   Each sign shall not exceed 64 square feet in area.
      (3)   Each sign shall be removed within 2 years after it is erected or
when 75% of all lots or units within the subdivision or development are sold,
whichever first occurs.
   (B)   Multiple-family real estate development signs.
      (1)   In multiple-family (RM-1 and RM-2) districts, 1 sign, not to exceed
64 square feet in area, shall be permitted on each public street frontage of a
new multiple-family development for the purpose of advertising new dwelling
units for rent or sale.
      (2)   Each sign shall be removed within 60 days of the initial rental or
sale of 70% of the dwelling units within the development.
   (C)   Building contractor signs.
      (1)   One identification sign shall be permitted for all building
contractors, 1 for all professional design firms and 1 for all lending
institutions on sites under construction, each sign not to exceed 6 square feet
in area, with not more than a total of 3 such signs permitted on 1 site.
      (2)   If all building contractors, professional design firms, and lending
institutions join together in 1 identification sign, the sign shall not exceed
32 square feet in area, and not more than 1 sign shall be permitted on a site.
      (3)   Signs shall have a maximum height of 10 feet and shall be confined
to the site of the construction, construction shed, or construction trailer and
shall be removed within 14 days after the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (D)   Special event signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs announcing any special sales, annual, charitable,
educational or religious event or function, located entirely within the
premises on which the event or function is to occur, shall be permitted on an
annual basis.
      (2)   A single special event a year is allowed by permit.
      (3)   A special event may last up to 30 days.
      (4)   A permit must be in effect for at least 30 days prior to thespecial
event.
      (5)   The date of the special event must be identified at the time of the
application.
      (6)   Maximum sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet.
      (7)   If building-mounted, signs shall be flat wall signs and shall not
project above the roofline.
      (8)   If ground-mounted, signs shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (9)   Signs shall be set back in accordance with §
150.192.
   (E)   Banners, pennants, searchlights, and balloons.
      (1)   Banners, pennants, search lights, balloons, or other gas-filled
figures are to be considered temporary signs and are therefore allowable during
special events as defined in division (D) above.
      (2)   The signs shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular view and shall
not interfere in any way with safe traffic flow.
   (F)   Real estate open house direction signs.
      (1)   Temporary real estate direction signs, not exceeding 3 square feet
in area and 4 in number, showing a directional arrow and placed back of the
property line, shall be permitted on approach routes to an open house, only for
the day of the open house.
      (2)   Signs shall not exceed 3 feet in height.
   (G)   Real estate signs.
      (1)   In residential districts, 1 temporary real estate “For Sale,” “For
Rent,” or “For Lease” sign, located on the property and not exceeding 6 square
feet in area shall be permitted.
      (2)   In all other zoning districts, 1 sign of this type shall be
permitted, provided it does not exceed 32 square feet in area and is set back
in accordance with §
150.192.
      (3)   If the lot has multiple frontages, 1 additional sign not exceeding
6 square feet in area in residential districts or 32 square feet in area in all
other districts shall be permitted.
      (4)   Under no circumstances shall more than 2 such signs be permitted on
a lot.
      (5)   The signs shall be removed within 7 days following the sale, rent,
or lease.
      (6)   In no case shall a sign advertising the sale, rent, or lease of a
building that is not located on the property on which the sign is located, be
permitted.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.10, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.200 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS.
   (A)   Allowed as a permitted or conditional use.
      (1)   Electronic message signs shall be allowed in O-1, PO-1, C-1, C-2,
C-3, PC-1, I-1, I-2, and PI-1 Districts as permitted signs. The signs may be
attached, detached, or low profile signs. The square footage of these signs
shall be counted into the maximum sign area allowed for the district.
      (2)   Electronic message signs may be allowed as a conditional use in RM-
1, RM-2 and PR-1 Districts, when parcels so zoned are located on a road or
street where 1 or more adjacent properties are used and zoned for office,
commercial or industrial purposes. The square footage of these signs shall be
applied towards the maximum sign area allowed in the district.
      (3)   Electronic message signs may also be allowed as a conditional use
for all announcement bulletins, to include schools, churches, civic
organizations and public buildings in any district.
   (B)   All electronic signs that contain an electronic changeable copy module
shall be subject to the following limitations in all districts:
      (1)   Electronic signs may not contain animation or any flashing,
scrolling, or any type of video.
      (2)   Electronic signs shall contain static messages only, changed only
through dissolve or fade transitions, but which may otherwise not have
movement, or the appearance or optical illusion of movement or varying light
intensity, of any part of the sign structure, design or pictorial segment of
the sign. The change of messages using a dissolve or fade transition shall not
exceed 3 seconds of time between each message displayed on the sign.
      (3)   Electronic message signs for all announcement bulletins that are
detached shall not be located within 100 feet of any current or future
residential single and 2 family use as zoned or designated in the master plan
for the township, as measured from the base of the sign to the nearest point of
the residential property. The announcement bulletin must also have frontage on
a road or street as required for the district in which they are located.
      (4)   Messages displayed shall only direct attention to a business,
product, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered on the premises on
which the sign is located including contiguous or adjacent property under the
same ownership. Community emergency alerts such as inclement weather or Amber
alerts, time and temperature, and public service announcements are exempt from
this requirement.
      (5)   Electronic signs shall not cause glare or rapid blinking, not be
intensely lighted that may create a nuisance or hazard to vehicular traffic,
pedestrians, adjacent properties or is otherwise detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare. These signs shall have a minimum of 8 second
intervals between screen changes.
      (6)   Electronic signs shall have automatic dimmer software or solar
sensors to control brightness for nighttime viewing.
      (7)   Electronic message signs operating between sunset and sunrise shall
be set at not more than 40% of the maximum capable light output.
      (8)   Applications for sign permits containing an electronic display
shall include the manufacture’s specifications including the maximum capable
light output.
      (9)   No more than 1 electronic sign is permitted per premises,
regardless of the number of signs permitted or the number of uses. If a
business use has frontage on 2 or more roads/streets 1 additional electronic
message sign may be allowed as a conditional use.
   (C)   (1)   All electronic signs that contain an electronic changeable copy
module shall be subject to the following limitations in all office, commercial
and industrial districts:
      (2)   In the office, commercial and industrial districts the electronic
message sign may be an attached sign, a low profile sign, or a detached sign
not to exceed 20 feet in height.
   (D)   All electronic signs that contain an electronic changeable copy module
shall be subject to the following limitations in the RM-1, RM-2 and PR-
1 districts, and for announcement bulletins placed in any residential district:
      (1)   Electronic message signs shall be placed perpendicular to the
street onto which it is constructed.
      (2)   Electronic message signs located within the RM-1, RM-2 and PR-
1 districts may have a detached low profile sign, or an attached sign.
(Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.201 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. The following types of signs are exempted from all
provisions of this chapter, except for construction and safety regulations and
the following standards.
   (B)   Noncommercial and public interest sign.
      (1)   Signs of a noncommercial nature and in the public interest, erected
by, or on the order of a public officer, in the performance of a public duty,
such as directional signs, regulatory signs, warning signs, official signs and
notices, and informational signs; and
      (2)   Names of buildings, date of erection, monument citations,
commemorative tablets, and the like, when carved into stone, concrete, or
similar material or made of other permanent type construction and made an
integral part of the structure.
   (C)   Political signs.
      (1)   Political signs are exempt for a period of not more than 60 days
before and 7 days after a general election or primary. However, the signs of a
primary winner may remain throughout the general election.
      (2)   The signs are not permitted in pubic rights-of-way nor may they
interfere with the vision of motorists.
      (3)   A total of 3 signs per property are allowed. The total square
footage of all political signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in the RNF-1,
RS-1, RS-2, RU-1, RU-2, MH-1, RM-1, RM-2, and PR-1 Districts and 32 square feet
in the AG-1, RM-1, RM-2, O-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2, PO-1, PC-1, and PI-
2 Districts.
      (4)   The top of the sign shall not exceed 8 feet above ground level in
all districts.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.11, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.202 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Nonconforming signs shall not:
   (A)   Be re-established after the activity, business, or usage to which it
relates has been discontinued for 90 days or longer;
   (B)   Be structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign or so as
to change the shape, size, type, or design of the sign; and/or
   (C)   Be re-established after damage or destruction, if the estimated
expense or reconstruction exceeds 50% of the replacement cost as determined by
the Building Inspector.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.12, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.203 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   A permit shall be required to erect or replace a sign, or to
change the copy of a sign, that is regulated by §§
150.193 and
150.195 through
150.199(E).
      (2)   The application shall be made by the owner of the property, or
authorized agent thereof, to the Township Zoning Administrator by submitting
the required forms, fees, exhibits, and information.
      (3)   Fees for sign permits shall be established by resolution of the
Township Board.
   (B)   An application for a sign permit shall contain the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and address in full, and a complete
description of the relationship to the property owner;
      (2)   If the applicant is not the property owner, the signature of the
property owner concurring in submittal of the application;
      (3)   The address of the property;
      (4)   An accurate scale drawing of the property showing location of all
buildings and structures and their uses, and location of the proposed sign; and
      (5)   A complete description and scale drawing of the sign, including all
dimensions and the area in square feet.
   (C)   All signs shall be inspected by the Township Zoning Administrator for
conformance to this chapter prior to placement on the site.
   (D)   (1)   A sign permit shall become null and void if the work for which
the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of 6 months after
the date of the permit.
      (2)   The sign permit may be extended for a period of 30 days upon
request by the applicant and approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Painting, repainting, cleaning, and other normal maintenance and
repair of a sign or a sign structure, unless a structural or size change is
made, shall not require a sign permit.
   (F)   Signs for which a permit is required shall be inspected periodically
by the Zoning Administrator for the compliance with this chapter and other
codes, requirements, and laws of the township, including, but not limited to,
the National Electrical Code, State Construction Code, and State Mechanical
Code.
   (G)   (1)   The applicant is also responsible for getting any other federal,
state, or locally required permission before erecting a sign.
      (2)   Other permissions may include, but are not limited to proposed
signs that are visible to a state highway, which require permits via the
Highway Advertising Act of 1972, as amended, Public Act 106 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.13, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)   
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.204 REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall order the removal of any sign
erected or maintained in violation of this chapter except for legal
nonconforming signs.
      (2)   Thirty-days notice in writing shall be given to the owner of the
sign or of the building, structure, or premises on which the sign is located to
remove the sign or to comply with this chapter.
      (3)   The township may, after 30-days notice, remove the sign.
      (4)   The township shall also remove the sign immediately and without
notice if it reasonably appears that the condition of the sign is such as to
present an immediate threat to the safety of the public.
      (5)   Any cost of removal incurred by the township shall be assessed to
the owner of the property on which the sign is located and may be collected in
the manner of ordinary debt or in the manner of taxes and the charge will be a
lien on the property.
   (B)   (1)   A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the premises
upon which the sign is located within 30 days after the business, which it
advertises, is no longer conducted on the premises.
      (2)   If the owner or lessee fails to remove the sign, the township shall
remove it in accordance with the provisions stated in division (A) above.
      (3)   These removal provisions shall not apply where a subsequent owner
or lessee conducts the same type of business and agrees to maintain the signs
to advertise the type of business being conducted on the premises and provided
the signs comply with the other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.2.14, passed 9-12-2006: Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 150.999
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.215 GENERALLY.
   (A)   In all districts, there shall be provided at the time any building,
structure, or use is established, enlarged, or increased in capacity, off-
street parking spaces for motor vehicles with the requirements herein
specified.
   (B)   The off-street parking spaces shall be maintained and shall not be
encroached upon by structures or other uses so long as the principal building,
structure, or use remains, unless an equivalent number of the spaces are
provided elsewhere in conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.216 PLANS.
   Plans and specifications showing required off-street parking spaces,
including the means of access and interior circulation, shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator for review at the time of application for a zoning
compliance permit for the erection or enlargement of a building.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.217 LOCATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Required off-street parking facilities shall be located on the same
lot as the principal building or on a lot within 300 feet thereof, except that
this distance shall not exceed 150 feet for single-family and 2-family
dwellings.
   (B)   This distance specified shall be measured from the nearest point of
the parking facility to the nearest point of the lot occupied by the building
or use that the facility is required to serve.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.2, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.218 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   Parking of motor vehicles in residential districts shall be
limited to passenger vehicles, and not more than 1 commercial vehicle of the
light delivery type, not to exceed 1 ton gross vehicle weight (GVW) shall be
permitted per dwelling unit.
      (2)   The parking of any other type of commercial or industrial vehicle,
except for those parked on school or church property, is prohibited in a
residential zone.
   (B)   The parking of a passenger vehicle or vehicles on a driveway located
on private property shall not be prohibited in any zoning district. All other
vehicles and equipment shall be parked on a lot in accordance with the
following provisions.
      (1)   These provision shall not apply to any vehicle or equipment stored
or parked in an enclosed building.
      (2)   Motor vehicles, motor homes, travel trailers, campers, and similar
equipment shall not be parked in the front yard setback of any residential
district. The units may be parked indefinitely in the backyard or side yard of
a parcel providing that the units are parked or stored in such a way as to
conform to the rear and side line setback requirements for a dwelling in that
zoning district.
      (3)   Boats, recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, trailers, and similar
such units or equipment shall not be parked in the front yard. The units may be
parked indefinitely in the backyard or side yard of a parcel, providing that
the units are parked or stored in such a way as to conform to the rear and side
line setback requirements for a dwelling in that zoning district.
      (4)   Temporary vehicles or structures such as motor homes, travel
trailers, or campers shall not be used as living quarters or dwellings in any
zoning district, except in accordance with the provisions of §
150.167.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.3, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.219 OFF-STREET PARKING AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   (1)   Each off-street parking space for automobiles shall be not less
than 200 square feet in area, exclusive of access drives or aisles.
      (2)   The standard dimensions of a parking space shall be 10 feet x 20
feet, but in any case parking spaces shall be of usable shape and condition.
      (3)   The applicant will also be required to provide the number of
accessible parking spaces, with the mandated dimensions for the parking spaces
and access aisles, mandated by Michigan’s Barrier Free Code, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1501 et seq.
   (B)   Parking aisles for automobiles shall be of sufficient width to allow a
minimum turning movement in and out of parking space. The minimum width of the
aisles shall be:
      (1)   For 90-degree or perpendicular parking, the aisle shall not be less
than 22 feet in width;
      (2)   For 60-degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than 18 feet;
      (3)   For 45-degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than 13 feet in
width; and
      (4)   For parallel parking, the aisle shall not be less than 10 feet in
width.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be provided a minimum access drive of 10 feet in
width for 1-way traffic and 20 feet in width for 2-way traffic.
      (2)   Where a turning radius is necessary, it will be of such an arc as
to reasonably allow an unobstructed flow of vehicles.
   (D)   All off-street parking spaces shall not be closer than 5 feet to any
property line, including the parkway.
   (E)   All off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to prevent
drainage to abutting properties.  to erosion.
   (F)   Any lighting fixtures used to illuminate any off-street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from any adjoining
residential lot or institutional premises.
   (G)   (1)   Any off-street parking area providing space for 5 or more
vehicles shall be effectively screened on any side, which adjoins or faces
property adjoining a residential lot or institution, by a wall, fence, or
compact planting not less than 4 feet in height.
      (2)   Plantings shall be maintained in good condition and not encroach on
adjoining property.
   (H)   All off-street parking areas that make it necessary for vehicles to
back out directly into a public road are prohibited, provided that this
prohibition shall not apply to off-street parking areas of 1- or 2-family
dwellings.
   (I)   (1)   Any off-street parking area providing space for 5 or more
vehicles shall be effectively screened from the street or an adjacent
residentially zoned property by a wall, fence, or compact planting not less
than 3 feet in height.
      (2)   Plantings shall be maintained in good condition and not encroach on
adjoining property.
   (J)   All parking lots, maneuvering lanes, driveways, or loading areas
required for uses other than single- or two-family residences shall be hard-
surfaced with asphalt, concrete. Porous asphalt or concrete may be used if
storm water run-off can be minimized or is recommended by the Jackson County
Drain Commissioner allowing the reduction in area of retention or detention
ponds. The Planning Commission shall have the discretion of waving certain hard
surface paving requirements allowing the use of millings or gravel provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The proposed driveways, loading, turn-around areas will receive
only limited use and are not used for employee parking, customer parking, or
primary access.
      (2)   Millings or gravel surfacing and potential problems arising from
dust or scattered gravel shall not impact neighboring properties.
      (3)   Hard surfacing will significantly increase storm water run-off and
create potential flooding and/or soil erosion.
   (K)   Wheel stops or curbing shall be provided to prevent any vehicle from
encroaching upon pedestrian walkways or damaging required landscaping.
   (L)   Truck and recreational vehicle parking. In addition to parking
required for passenger vehicles, set forth in §
150.222, off-street parking for buses, trucks, and recreational vehicles at
restaurants, service stations, and similar establishments, shall be of
sufficient size to adequately serve such space and shall not be less than 10
feet in width and 55 feet in length. Upon review of the site plan, the Planning
Commission shall determine if separate truck and recreational vehicle parking
is required for the proposed use.
   (M)   All parking spaces shall be delineated with visible striping/marking
of the parking spaces with paint or other acceptable materials. Temporary
parking for uses allowed in §
150.173 Temporary Uses may be waived by the Township Board if requested by an
applicant for such use. The requirements for striping may be waived by the
Planning Commission under provisions of §
150.219(H).
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.4, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 3-28-2017)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.220 COLLECTIVE PARKING.
   Requirements for the provision of parking facilities with respect to 2 or
more property uses of the same or different types may be satisfied if the
permanent allocation of the requisite number of spaces designated is not less
than the sum of individual requirements.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.221 DETERMINING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of determining off-street parking
requirements, the following units of measurement shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Floor area. In the case where floor area is the unit for
determining the required number of off-street parking spaces, the unit shall
mean the gross floor area, except that the floor area need not include any area
used for parking within the principal building and need not include any area
used for incidental service storage, installations of mechanical equipment,
penthouse housing ventilators and heating systems, and similar uses.
      (2)   Places of assembly.
         (a)   In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other places of
assembly in which those in attendance occupy benches, pews, or other similar
seating facilities, each 18 inches of the seating facilities shall be counted
as 1 seat.
         (b)   In cases where a place of assembly has both fixed seats and open
assembly area, requirements shall be computed separately for each type and
added together.
      (3)   Fractions. When units of measurement determining the number of
required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including ½ shall be disregarded and fractions over ½ shall
require 1 parking space.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.6, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.222 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The minimum required off-street parking spaces shall be set forth in
the following Schedule of Off-Street Parking Spaces.
   (B)   Where a use is not specifically mentioned, the parking requirements of
a similar or related use shall apply.
Use Parking Space Requirements
Use                                     Parking Space Requirements
                                        One space for each 200 square feet of
Automobile or Machinery Sales and       showroom floor area plus 2 spaces for
Service Garages                         each service bay plus 1 space for each
                                        2 employees on maximum shift.
Bank, Business, and Professional        One space for each 200 square feet of
Offices                                 gross floor area.
Barber Shops and Beauty Parlors         One space for each chair plus 1 space
                                        for each employee on maximum shift.
Bowling Alleys                          Seven spaces for each alley.
Churches, Auditoriums, Stadiums, Sports
Arenas, Theaters, Dance Halls, Assembly One space for each 4 seats.
Halls other than schools.
Dwelling Unit                           Two spaces for each family or dwelling
                                        unit.
                                        Four spaces for each parlor or 1 space
Funeral Homes and Mortuaries            for each 50 square feet of floor area
                                        plus 1 space for each fleet vehicle,
                                        whichever is greater.
Furniture, Appliance Stores, Household  One space for each 400 square feet of
Equipment floor and Furniture Repair    floor area
Shops area.
                                        One space for each bed excluding
Hospitals                               bassinets plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees on maximum shift.
Hotels, Motels, Lodging Houses,         One space for each living unit plus 1
Boarding Homes                          space for each 2 employees.
                                        One space for each 800 square feet of
Automobile, Service Stations            floor area plus 1 space for each 4
                                        employees on maximum shift.
Manufacturing, Fabricating, Processing  One space for each 2 employees on
and Bottling Plants, Research and       maximum shift.
Testing Laboratories.
                                        One space for each 200 square feet of
Medical and Dental Clinics              floor area plus 1 space for each
                                        employee on maximum shift
                                        One space for each 3 patrons of maximum
Restaurants, Beer Parlors, Taverns, and seating capacity plus one (1) space for
Night Clubs                             each two (2) employees on maximum
                                        shift.
Banquet, reception, and convention      One space for each 3 patrons of maximum
facilities where Food and beverages may seating capacity plus 1 space for each
be served                               2 employees on maximum shift.
Self-service Laundry or Dry Cleaning    One space for each 2 washing and/or dry
Stores                                  cleaning machines.
                                        One space for each employee normally
Elementary and Junior High Schools,     engaged in or about the building or
Private or Public                       grounds plus 1 space for each 30
                                        students enrolled.
Senior High School and Institutions of  One space for each employee in or about
Higher Learning, Private or Public      the building or grounds plus 1 space
                                        for each 4 students enrolled.
Super Market, Self-service Food and     One space for each 200 square feet of
Discount Stores                         floor area plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees on maximum shift.
                                        One space for each 400 square feet of
Wholesale Establishments and Warehouses floor area plus 1 space for each 2
                                        employees on maximum shift.
 
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.7, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.223 EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The parking requirements for all uses proposed on a lot shall be
cumulative, unless the Planning Commission shall find that the parking
requirements of a particular land use occur at different hours from those of
other contiguous land uses, such that particular land use parking areas can be
advantageously used during non conflicting hours by the other contiguous land
use, in which event the required parking spaces for the particular land use may
be reduced by the Planning Commission to a minimum of the greatest number of
spaces required for any of the contiguous land uses.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission may in its discretion depending on the
nature of the use being proposed and the layout of the site plan reduce by no
more than 25% the required parking spaces on an individual case basis.
      (2)   Any such reduction shall be made only if requested by the
applicant, and upon a showing by the applicant that the parking spaces set
forth in this chapter exceed the parking spaces necessary to the proposed use
or to be reasonably used by persons frequenting the proposed use.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.8, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.224 OFF-STREET PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   Off-street parking and parking lots for office, commercial, or industrial
purposes shall be located only in office, commercial, or industrial districts.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.3.9, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.235 GENERALLY.
   In connection with every building, structure, or use hereafter erected,
except single- and 2-family dwelling unit structures, which customarily receive
or distribute material or merchandise by vehicle, there shall be provided on
the same lot with the buildings, off-street loading and unloading space.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.4, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.236 PLANS.
   Plans and specifications showing required loading and unloading spaces
including the means of ingress and egress and interior circulation shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review at the time of application for
a zoning compliance permit.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.4.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.237 OFF-STREET LOADING AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   Each off-street loading and unloading space shall not be less than 10
feet in width and 55 feet in length with not less than 15 feet in height
clearance.
   (B)   Any loading and unloading space shall not be closer than 50 feet to
any other lot located in any residential district unless wholly within a
completely enclosed building or unless enclosed on sides by a wall, fence, or
compact planting not less than 6 feet in height.
   (C)   All off-street loading and unloading facilities that make it necessary
to back out directly into a public road/street shall be prohibited.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.4.2, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.238 OFF-STREET LOADING AREA SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the case of mixed uses on 1 lot or parcel, the total requirements
for off-street loading and unloading facilities shall be the sum of the various
uses computed separately.
   (B)   All retail sales facilities having over 5,000 square feet of gross
floor area shall be provided with at least 1 off-street loading and unloading
space, and for every additional 20,000 square feet of gross floor space, or
fraction thereof, 1 additional loading and unloading space.
   (C)   All industrial and wholesale commercial land uses shall provide 1
loading and unloading space for each 10,000 square feet of floor space, with a
minimum of not less than 2 loading and unloading spaces.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.4.3, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 150.250 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The formulation and enactment of this chapter is based upon the
division of the township into districts in each of which are permitted
specified uses, which are mutually compatible.
   (B)   In addition to the permitted compatible uses however, there are
certain other uses, which may be necessary or desirable to allow in certain
locations in certain districts, but because of their actual or potential impact
on neighboring uses or public facilities, need to be carefully regulated with
respect to their location for the protection of the township.
   (C)   The uses, on account of their peculiar occasional need or the nature
of the service offered, may have to be established in a district in which they
cannot be reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.251 AUTHORITY TO GRANT PERMITS.
   The Planning Commission, as hereinafter provided, shall have the authority
to recommend to the Summit Township Board to grant conditional use permits,
subject to the conditions of design, operation, and safeguards as the Summit
Township Board may determine for all conditional uses specified in the various
district provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.252 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Whenever any conditional use permit for a property is proposed, before
any building permit for the erection of a permanent building on the site shall
be granted, the developer or his or her authorized agent shall apply for and
secure approval of the conditional use permit in accordance with the following
procedures.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The applicant shall file an official conditional use permit
application form; submit required data, exhibits, and information; and deposit
the required fee as established by resolution of Summit Township Board, except
that no fee shall be required of any governmental body or agency.
         (b)   No part of the fee shall be returnable to the applicant.
      (2)   Staging.
         (a)   If the applicant wishes to stage the conditional use and has so
indicated on the development plan, the development plan may be submitted with
only those stages he or she wishes to develop at this time.
         (b)   Any plan which requires more than 24 months to be completed
shall be required to be staged and staging plan shall be developed.
      (3)   Review of the development plan. The proposed conditional use must
be reviewed according to the procedures and requirements outlined in §§
150.330 et seq.
      (4)   Public hearing requirements. Public hearings held in accordance
with §
150.348 shall take place before the Planning Commission and Township Board
consider approval of the conditional use permit.
   (B)   The Planning Commission must provide a written statement of findings
and conclusions relative to the conditional land use which specifies the basis
for the decision and any conditions imposed.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.253 REQUIRED STANDARDS AND FINDINGS FOR MAKING DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission shall review the particular
circumstances and facts of each proposed use in terms of the following
standards and required findings, shall find and record adequate data,
information, and evidence showing that such a use on the proposed site, lot, or
parcel meets the following requirements.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives, intent, and purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained, and managed so
as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with existing or intended
character of the general vicinity;
      (3)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services, such as: highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal, or that the persons or agencies responsible for
the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any
such service;
      (4)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses; and
      (5)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public costs
for public facilities and services.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.254 DETERMINATION AND IMPOSITION OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   If the facts in the case do not reasonably establish that the findings
and standards set forth in this chapter will apply to the proposed use, the
Planning Commission shall not recommend to the Summit Township Board that the
Summit Township Board should grant a conditional use permit.
   (B)   In recommending that a conditional use permit should be granted by the
Summit Township Board, the Planning Commission shall recommend the conditions
of use as it deems necessary to protect the best interest of the township and
the surrounding property, and to achieve the objectives of this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.255 APPROVAL OF THE PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon holding a public hearing and the finding that the requirements of
§§
150.252 through
150.256 have been satisfactorily met by the applicant, the Planning Commission
shall within 30 days recommend approval or disapproval to the Summit Township
Board.
   (B)   When the Summit Township Board gives final approval, a conditional use
permit shall be issued for use only at the requested location.
   (C)   In all cases where conditional use permits are granted in residential
districts, if the structure on the premises is also used for a dwelling unit
then it shall be a requirement of the conditional use permit that the owner of
the premises resides in the structure for which the conditional use permit is
granted.
   (D)   This requirement shall not apply to conditional use permits granted
for offices or clinics.
   (E)   The Township Board shall forward a copy of the permit to the
applicant, Clerk, Zoning Administrator, and Planning Commission.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning compliance permit
until he or she has received a copy of the conditional use permit approved by
the Summit Township Board.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.256 VOIDING OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Any conditional use permit granted under this chapter shall become
null and void and fees forfeited unless construction and/or use is commenced
within 210 days and completed within 575 days of the date of issuance.
   (B)   A violation of a requirement, condition, or safeguard shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and ground for the Planning Commission
to terminate and cancel the conditional use permit.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.6, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.257 ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN USES.
   A conditional use permit shall not be issued for the uses specified in this
section unless complying with the site development requirements as herein
specified. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions and
safeguards when deemed necessary by that body.
   (A)   Quarries. The removal of soil, sand, gravel, stone, and other earth
materials shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   There shall be not more than 1 entranceway from a public road/
street to the lot for each 500 feet of front lot line.
      (2)   The removal, processing, transportation, and activities relating to
storage such as stock piling shall not take place before sunrise or after
sunset.
      (3)   On the lot, no digging or excavating shall take place closer than
100 feet to any lot line.
      (4)   On the lot, all road/streets, driveways, parking lots, and loading
and unloading areas within 100 feet of any lot line shall be paved, oiled,
watered, or chemically treated so as to limit adjoining lots and public roads/
streets the nuisance caused by wind-borne dust.
      (5)   Any odors, smoke, fumes, or dust generated on the lot by any
digging, excavating, processing, stockpiling, or transportation operation and
borne or able to be borne by the wind shall be confined within the lines of the
lot as much as is possible so as not to cause a nuisance or hazard on any
adjoining lot or public road/street.
      (6)   The removal, processing, or storage shall not be conducted as to
cause the pollution by any material of any surface or subsurface, watercourse,
or body outside the lines of the lot on which the use shall be located.
      (7)   The removal, processing, or storage shall not be conducted as to
cause or threaten to cause the erosion by water of any land outside of the lot
or of any land on the lot so that earth materials are carried outside of the
lines of the lot, that the removal shall not be conducted as to alter the
drainage pattern of surface or subsurface waters on adjacent property, and that
in the event that the removal, processing, or storage shall cease to be
conducted it shall be the continuing responsibility of the owner or operator
thereof to assure that no erosion or alteration of drainage patterns, as
specified in this division (A)(7), shall take place after the date of the
cessation of operation.
      (8)   All fixed equipment and machinery shall be located at least 100
feet from any lot line and 500 feet from any residential zoning district, but
that in the event the zoning classification of any land within 500 feet of the
equipment or machinery shall be changed to residential subsequent to the
operation of the equipment or machinery, the operation of the equipment or
machinery may continue henceforth but in no case less than 100 feet from any
lot line.
      (9)   (a)   There shall be erected a fence not less than 6 feet in height
around the periphery of the development.
         (b)   Fences shall be adequate to prevent trespass, and shall be
placed no closer than 50 feet to the top edge of any slope.
      (10)   All areas within any single development shall be rehabilitated
progressively as they are worked out or abandoned to a condition of being
entirely lacking in hazards, inconspicuous, and blended with the general
surrounding ground form so as to appear reasonably natural.
      (11)   (a)   The operator shall file with the Planning Commission and the
Zoning Administrator a detailed plan for the restoration of the development
area which shall include the anticipated future use of the restored land, the
proposed final topography indicated by contour lines of not greater interval
than 5 feet, steps which shall be taken to conserve topsoil; proposed and final
landscaping; and the location of future road/streets, drives, drainage courses,
and/or other improvements contemplated.
         (b)   The plans shall be subject to review and modification from time
to time by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   The anticipated cost of carrying out the plans of restoration
shall be included with the plans.
      (12)   (a)   The operator shall file with the Summit Township Board a
performance bond, payable to the township and conditioned on the faithful
performance of all requirements contained in the approved restoration plan.
         (b)   The Summit Township Board shall fix the amount of the required
bond, which will reflect the anticipated cost of restoration.
         (c)   The bond shall be released upon written certification of the
Zoning Administrator that the restoration is complete and in compliance with
the restoration plan.
      (13)   The permit or each renewal thereof shall be for a period of not
more than 5 years and shall be renewable only upon reapplication, a re-
determination by the Planning Commission and a filing of a performance bond,
the re-determination to be made in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter for the issuance of a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Junkyards. In addition to, and as an integral part of development, the
following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   (a)   It is recognized by this chapter that the location of the
materials in an open area included in this chapter’s definition of “junkyard”
will cause the reduction of the value of adjoining property.
         (b)   To the end that the character of the district shall be
maintained and property values conserved, a solid, unpierced fence or wall at
least 7 feet in height, and not less than the height of the materials on the
lot on which a junkyard shall be operated, shall be located on the lot no
closer to the lot lines than the yard requirements for buildings permitted in
this district.
         (c)   All gates, doors, and access ways through the fence or wall
shall be of solid, unpierced material.
         (d)   In no event shall any materials included in this chapter’s
definition of “junkyard” be located on the lot on which a junkyard shall be
operated in the area between the lines of the lot and the solid, unpierced
fence or wall located on the lot.
      (2)   All traffic ingress and egress shall be on major streets, and there
shall be not more than 1 entranceway to the lot on which a junk yard shall be
operated from each public road/street on which the lot abuts.
      (3)   All roads/streets, driveways, parking lots, and loading and
unloading areas within any yard of a junkyard shall be paved, oiled, watered,
or chemically treated so as to limit adjoining lots and public roads/streets
the nuisance caused by wind-borne dust.
   (C)   Drive-in theaters. In addition to, and as an integral part of
development, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Drive-in theaters shall be enclosed for their full periphery with a
solid screen fence at least 7 feet in height. Fences shall be of sound
construction, painted, or otherwise finished neatly and inconspicuously.
      (2)   All fenced-in areas shall be set back at least 100 feet from any
front street or property line.
      (3)   (a)   All traffic ingress or egress shall be on major streets and
all local traffic movement shall be accommodated within the site so that
entering and exiting vehicles will make normal and uncomplicated movements into
or out of the public thoroughfare.
         (b)   All points of entrance to the exit of motor vehicles shall be
located no closer than 200 feet from the intersection of any 2 streets or
highways.
   (D)   Combined residential and office or business units. In addition to and
as an integral part of development, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   The principal use of the property must be office or commercial, and
the residential use only incidental to the office or commercial use.
      (2)   The residential use shall be subject to the following regulations,
excluding height and setback requirements:
         (a)   Minimum living area of 750 feet or 1- or 2-bedroom dwelling; 150
square feet of additional living area for each additional bedroom; and a
minimum floor-to-ceiling height of 7.5 feet;
         (b)   The living unit shall be connected to a public sewer and water
supply or to private sewer and water supply facilities approved by the Jackson
County Health Department before issuance of a certificate of occupancy;
         (c)   The storage areas within the dwelling unit, in the aggregate,
shall be equal to at least 15% of the minimum square foot dwelling area
requirements; and
         (d)   There shall be 2 parking spaces for each dwelling unit and
limited to passenger vehicles only.
      (3)   (a)   The residential use shall not be restricted to the owner of
the unit or the business located in the unit.
         (b)   The residential use may be a rental use or occupied solely by
non-family members of the owner of the building or the business.
      (4)   The residential unit must be designed and constructed as part of
the office or commercial use.
   (E)   Animal parks, zoos, and aquariums. An animal park, zoo, or aquarium is
defined as the temporary or permanent housing, or keeping for display of non-
domestic birds, fish, and/or animals. An animal park, zoo, or aquarium is an
operation that is open to the public, whether free or for admission, and may be
part of a larger park or common area used for other purposes. The nature of
animal parks, zoos and aquariums is such that each project must be reviewed
individually, and certain conditions imposed on the use so as not to endanger
the life of residents in the area, or adversely affect the value of properties
in the area. Prior to issuing a conditional use for an animal park, zoo, or
aquarium, the Planning Commission shall consider the following in making its
recommendation to the Township Board:
      (1)   Whether the public roads/streets are sufficient to handle the
increased traffic expected to be generated by such a project;
      (2)   Whether the project is located so closely to surrounding
residential property that the traffic and noise generated from the project will
adversely impact and affect the peace and quiet of surrounding residents;
      (3)   Whether there is adequate parking proposed by the applicant;
      (4)   Whether the proposed fencing of the project will be adequate to
prevent animals from within the project from escaping and being a danger to
surrounding residents;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has submitted a plan showing sufficient
personnel to maintain the quality of life of the animals within the project,
order among the visitors to the project, and crowd control within the project;
      (6)   Whether the proposed landscaping is adequate to create an
attractive appearance, and to shield the activities from surrounding
residential neighborhoods;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has received all applicable federal and state
licenses. An applicant who has been denied a federal or state license shall not
be approved by the Planning Commission. An applicant who violates a state or
federal license, guideline, or regulation shall be deemed to violate the
conditional use permit granted under this section, and if a permit has been
issued it shall be subject to revocation by the Township Board for the
violation;
      (8)   Whether the animal park, zoo, or aquarium will place an undue
burden on public services such as police, fire, water, sewer, or any other
public service provided by the municipality;
      (9)   Liability insurance of no less than $1,000,000 per person and
$2,000,000 per incident to protect the public and persons using the park zoo or
aquarium from monetary loss and compensate for damages to property or persons
caused by the park or zoo, or the other amount as may be required by the
Township Board if dangerous or exotic animals are kept on the premises;
      (10)   Whether the nature of the operation is sufficiently removed from
residences so as not to cause a nuisance by reason of odors, dust, trash, or
noise;
      (11)   In determining any application for a park, zoo, or aquarium, the
Planning Commission shall consider the appropriateness of the applicant posting
a bond to assure compliance with the conditional use permit with respect to
odors, dust, trash, or noise and restoration of the property if the enterprise
is closed. The necessity of the bond would protect the township by allowing the
township to use the proceeds from the bond to defray costs incurred in the
event that the township was required to remedy a nuisance on the property;
      (12)   In considering such a conditional use, the Planning Commission may
make recommendations concerning lighting, hours of operation, parking,
landscaping, buffer zones, and any other conditions reasonably calculated to
maintain the integrity of the value of surrounding properties and the peace and
tranquility of the residents in and about the proposed project;
      (13)   That a conditional use authorized under this section preempts any
contrary provisions in this chapter, and in particular the prohibition against
keeping exotic animals in residential areas. This section shall take precedence
over any other section of this chapter.
   (F)   Telecommunication facilities and towers. A telecommunication facility
shall mean and include all structures and accessory facilities relating to the
use of radio frequency spectrum for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
radio signals. This may include, but shall not be limited to, radio towers,
television towers, cellular towers, personal communication services (PCS),
specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR),
satellite dish facilities, telephone devices and exchanges, microwave relay
facilities, telephone transmission equipment buildings, private and commercial
radio service facilities, paging and similar services which are licensed and
marketed to the general public, except preemption’s as stated in the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, being U.S.C. §§ 151 et seq. Not included in
this definition are citizen band radio facilities, short wave receiving
facilities, federally licensed amateur (ham) radio facilities, and government
facilities that are subject to state or federal law or regulations which
preempt municipal regulatory authority.
      (1)   Applicant. The applicant for a permit to erect a commercial
telecommunications tower, satellite dish, cellular tower, microwave dish,
paging, or otherwise wireless type of communication towers or antennas shall be
the owner, tenant, lessee, or agent of 1 of the foregoing.
      (2)   Application. The application shall be submitted to the township 45
days prior to submission of the application to the Planning Commission for
approval and shall contain, in addition to any other information requested by
the Planning Commission, the following information:
         (a)   A statement by the applicant describing engineering criteria
which will permit co-location of additional antennas, if the tower is 60 feet
or more in height;
         (b)   A diagram of the proposed site;
         (c)   A detailed statement as to the intended buffering of the
property to minimize its visibility to surrounding uses. The buffering shall
include, but not be limited to, the planting of evergreen trees, a fence no
less than 6 feet tall, and the material out of which the fence shall be
erected. See additional requirements in division (F)(3)(e) of this section;
         (d)   The proposed height of the telecommunication facility;
         (e)   The location and size of all accessory buildings;
         (f)   The type of construction of telecommunication facility;
         (g)   Each application shall be accompanied by a report prepared by a
Michigan licensed professional engineer describing the telecommunication
facility height and design, including a cross-section of the structure; the
report shall demonstrate the tower’s compliance with applicable sub-structural
standards and describe the tower’s load design; and
         (h)   The applicant in the application must demonstrate that the
proposed site is the most appropriate site within the immediate area for the
location of the telecommunication facility. The demonstration shall be
evidenced by a study comparing other potential host sites. Reasons for
excluding a site for consideration include but are not limited to:
            1.   Unwillingness of the owner to entertain a telecommunication
facility proposal;
            2.   Topographical limitations of the site;
            3.   Adjacent impediments that would obstruct adequate
telecommunication transmission;
            4.   Physical site constraints that would preclude this
construction of a telecommunication facility;
            5.   Technical limitations of the telecommunication system;
            6.   A legal description of the property;
            7.   The application shall be accompanied by a statement from a
Michigan licensed professional engineer certifying that the tower is in
compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws, codes,
regulations, and ordinances;
            8.   The base of the telecommunication tower shall be determined by
the setback requirements of this chapter. In no case shall the base of the
tower intrude into the minimum setback requirements;
            9.   Minimum spacing between telecommunication facility locations
shall be 1 mile in order to prevent a concentration of towers in 1 area;
            10.   All applications for the construction of commercial
telecommunication antennas, satellite dishes, cellular towers, microwave
dishes, paging, and other wireless types of communication towers or antennas
shall be subject to the provisions of the site plan review process set forth in
this chapter. Each application shall undergo a full and thorough site plan
review together with meeting all of the requirements of this division (F).
      (3)   Minimum standards.
         (a)   Commercial telecommunication antennas, satellite dishes,
cellular towers, microwave dishes, paging and other wireless types of
communication towers or antennas shall be separated from residential dwellings
by a distance of no less than 200 feet or the height of the tower plus 10%,
whichever is greater. The setback distance shall be measured from the base of
the tower to the lot line.
         (b)   All communication towers shall be inspected annually by a
competent or licensed inspector to insure the structural integrity of the
tower, appurtenances added to the tower, equipment added to the tower, and
fixtures added to the tower. A report of the results of the inspection shall be
provided to the Township Building Inspector on or before August 1 of each year.
         (c)   All telecommunication facilities shall be sited to have the
least possible practical visual effect on the surrounding neighborhood.
         (d)   Telecommunication facilities shall not be artificially lighted
unless otherwise required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other
federal, state, or local authority.
         (e)   There shall be vegetative screening through the use of evergreen
shrubs or trees capable of forming a continuous hedge at least 5 feet in height
within 2 years of planting, and a row of trees at least 8 feet in height at the
time of placement with 10-foot centers and a minimum mature height of 35 feet.
         (f)   1.   Minimum property line setbacks shall be 30 feet plus the
height of the telecommunication facility plus 10% of the height of the tower,
or 100 feet, whichever is greater.
            2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing language, no tower shall be
located closer than 200 feet from the property line when the property is being
used for residential purpose.
            3.   Providing further, that where a proposed tower will be located
on a parcel of land surrounded on all 4 sides by commercially, agriculturally,
and/or industrial zoned property the Planning Commission may in its discretion
reduce the minimum sideline setback requirements of this chapter upon evidence
that a satisfactory fall zone for the tower will be less than the required
setback in this chapter, but in no event shall the setback be less than that
required for structures erected in the zoning district in which the tower is
located.
            4.   The setback distance shall be measured from the base of the
tower to the lot line.
         (g)   1.   The telecommunication facility shall conform to the ANSI
standards for radio frequency (RF) exposure.
            2.   The telecommunication shall be upgraded to meet any change in
the ANSI standards.
            3.   The owner or applicant shall provide proof of compliance with
the ANSI standards.
         (h)   1.   The total square footage of accessory buildings shall not
exceed 400 square feet per user of the tower.
            2.   Accessory structures shall blend in with the surrounding area
by considering color, texture and materials, topography, and scale of
buildings.
         (i)   1.   Fuel tanks shall be buried or screened with landscaping,
fencing, or berms.
            2.   Trash areas must be screened.
            3.   Alternative fuel supplies shall meet applicable state law.
         (j)   1.   The noise impacts of cooling and other types of equipment
shall be minimized through location and screening.
            2.   Noise may not exceed state or local noise standards, and shall
conform to recommended decibels standards adopted by the appropriate federal
agency.
         (k)   Metal towers shall be constructed of or treated with corrosive
resistant material.
         (l)   Antenna and metal towers shall be grounded for protection
against direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to the electrical wiring
and connections with all applicable local statutes, regulations, standards, and
codes.
         (m)   There shall not be displayed any advertising or identification
of any kind intended to be visible from the ground or other structure on any
tower, except the identification as may be required for emergency purposes.
         (n)   All parking and drive areas must be paved.
      (4)   Abandonment.
         (a)   In the event the use of any telecommunication facility has been
discontinued for a period of 180 days, the telecommunication facility shall be
deemed to be abandoned.
         (b)   Upon abandonment, the owner/operator of the telecommunication
facility shall have an additional 180 days within which to re-activate the
telecommunication facility or dismantle and remove the telecommunication
facility.
      (5)   Federal, state, and local rules, and the like.
         (a)   The owner or applicant of the commercial telecommunication
antennas, satellite dishes, cellular towers, microwave dishes, paging, and
other wireless types of communication towers or antennas shall be required to
adhere to all federal, state, and local rules, regulations, statutes, and
ordinances.
         (b)   A violation of any of the foregoing shall constitute reasonable
grounds for the municipality to revoke the telecommunication permit.
      (6)   Tower space and tower rights. The applicant shall provide to Summit
Township tower space and tower rights for public safety communications and
other municipal communications at no cost to the municipality if space is
requested prior to construction of the tower or space is available at the time
of the request by the township.
      (7)   Necessary conditions.
         (a)   Telecommunication facilities shall be subject to the provisions
of this division (F) regardless of whether the facilities are designated as a
conditional or a permitted use in any zoning district.
         (b)   The conditions are necessary to preserve the safety, health, and
welfare of the residents because of the nature of the activity.
      (8)   Bonds.
         (a)   The owner of a telecommunication facility or tower shall post a
bond with the township in an amount to cover the reasonably estimated costs and
expenses of dismantling and removing the telecommunication facility or tower in
the event that the same is abandoned, and the owner fails to dismantle and/or
remove the same within 180 days.
         (b)   The bond shall be with a reputable insurance or guarantee
company.
         (c)   The amount of the bond shall be established by the Township
Board, and may be adjusted from time to time on an annual basis to reflect
changing costs and expenses of dismantling and moving the telecommunication
tower.
      (9)   Transfer of ownership. These regulations and standards shall apply
to successor owner(s) of the telecommunication facilities if title or ownership
of the telecommunication facility is transferred to another person,
partnership, corporation, or any other entity.
      (10)   Any applicant who makes a false statement on an application shall
be guilty of a civil infraction, which is detailed in
Chapter 30.
      (11)   The application shall include the name back haul provider, if
applicable.
      (12)   (a)   The Planning Commission may require camouflage or innovative
design for a telecommunication facility providing that the same is not cost
prohibitive and/or does not create an undue hardship on the applicant.
         (b)   The design requirements may include, but not be limited to,
camouflaging the facility, requiring a specific paint color and/or paint
scheme, or requiring the facility be so designed as to blend into the existing
environs and background to the facility.
      (13)   The towers shall meet all regulations of the local airport zoning
ordinance (if applicable) and the Federal Communications Commission.
      (14)   Commercial wireless telecommunication towers. All commercial
wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or located within the
township shall also comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication
service tower shall not be approved unless the Township Board finds that the
telecommunication equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a 1-mile
search radius of the proposed tower due to 1 or more of the following reasons.
            1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed Michigan professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower
cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or
equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost.
            2.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed Michigan professional
engineer and the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
            3.   Existing or approved towers or buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed Michigan
professional engineer.
            4.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
         (b)   1.   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for a minimum
of 2 additional users if the tower is over 100 feet in height or for at least 1
additional user if the tower is over 60 feet in height.
            2.   Towers must be designed to allow future rearrangement of
antennas upon the tower to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
   (G)   Sales of mobile home. Sales of mobile homes provided that the sales
operation is clearly subordinate and incidental to the use of the area for
mobile home dwellings. The following conditions shall also apply.
      (1)   No more than 1 sales area for mobile homes shall be located in the
mobile home park or subdivision and the sales area shall be a Mobile Home
Residential (MH-1) zone, single separated designated section within.
      (2)   (a)   No more than 1 mobile home for sale purposes per 10 mobile
homes located in the mobile home park or subdivision for residential purposes
shall be permitted.
         (b)   The total number of mobile homes for sale shall not exceed 10.
      (3)   Sales shall be limited to mobile homes.
      (4)   The sales operation shall have frontage on a dedicated street or
road and have access to the street or road.
      (5)   The minimum yard requirements for the Mobile Home Residential (MH-
1) zone shall also apply to the portion of the mobile home park or subdivision
utilized for sales purposes.
      (6)   Parking space shall be provided in the designated sales area in
accordance with the requirements for the residential area of the Mobile Home
Residential (MH-1) zone.
   (H)   New and used vehicle dealers.
      (1)   The premises must contain a permanently enclosed building or
structure either owned, leased, or rented by a dealer, which is not a
residence, tent, temporary stand, or any temporary quarters;
      (2)   The building or structure is required to be continuously occupied
for the purpose of selling, buying, trading, leasing, or otherwise dealing in
motor vehicles;
      (3)   All books, records, and files necessary to conduct the business of
a class (a) or class (b) dealer must be maintained in the building or
structure;
      (4)   A building or structure housing an office of at least 150 square
feet in size, equipped with standard office furniture, working utilities, a
working restroom, and a working telephone listed in the name of the business on
the dealer’s license;
      (5)   Land space of no less than 1,300 square feet to accommodate the
display of a minimum of 10 vehicles of the kind and type that the dealer is
licensed to sell and an additional 650 square feet for customer parking. The
display and customer parking areas must be adequately surfaced and well lit
during business hours;
      (6)   An exterior sign displaying the name of the dealership that is
permanently affixed to the building or land with letters clearly visible from a
highway identifies the premises;
      (7)   Conspicuous posting of the dealer’s regular hours of operation. The
posted hours must be not less than 30 hours per week; and
      (8)   The premises must contain a registered repair facility on site for
the repair and servicing of motor vehicles of a type sold at the established
place of business, unless the dealer has entered into a written servicing
agreement with a registered repair facility at a location not to exceed 10-
miles distance from the established place of business. If repairs are conducted
pursuant to a servicing agreement, the servicing agreement must be
conspicuously posted in the office.
   (I)   Type 2 home occupations. Requests for type 2 home occupations, as
defined by §
150.006, shall be processed by the Planning Commission under the provisions of
this chapter.
      (1)   Location. The home occupation shall be carried on within the
dwelling or within a building accessory thereto.
      (2)   Employees and volunteers. No more than 1 person (employee or
volunteer) may be employed who is not a resident of the premises. Off-street
parking shall be provided for the employee or volunteer on the premises to
which the home occupation is conducted.
      (3)   Impact on commercial districts. In addition to meeting the
conditional use standards for approval, it shall be demonstrated that the home
business will not be detrimental to the commercial viability of the township’s
commercially zoned districts.
      (4)   Hours of operation. As set by the conditional use permit.
      (5)   Clients or customers. No more than 2 clients or customers shall be
received at any 1 time.
      (6)   Sign. One non-illuminated sign, not to exceed 3 square feet, may be
erected. The sign shall be attached to the residence or may be placed in a
window.
      (7)   Noise. The home occupation shall not generate noise, which is
audible beyond the property lines of the dwelling.
      (8)   Equipment or process. No equipment or process shall be used in the
home occupation which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor, or
electrical interference detectable to the normal human senses beyond the
property lines of the dwelling in which the home occupation is conducted.
      (9)   Exterior alterations. There shall be no exterior alteration in the
residential character of the premises in connection with the home occupation
and no more than 30% of the living area of the dwelling shall be devoted to the
home occupation.
      (10)   Display of merchandise. No merchandise or articles for sale shall
be displayed for advertising purposes so as to be viewable from outside the
dwelling and no sign or device relative to the sale of the merchandise shall be
displayed on the premises.
      (11)   Storage.
         (a)   All articles or materials used in connection with the home
occupation shall be stored in the main and permitted accessory buildings.
         (b)   No outside storage is permitted.
         (c)   The storage of materials and merchandise shall not represent a
safety hazard to the dwelling, dwelling occupants, or adjoining properties and
occupants, nor shall the storage result in a change to the fire rating of the
dwelling and accessory building in which the storage may be conducted.
      (12)   Traffic and parking.
         (a)   Customers shall not generate excessive traffic or monopolize on-
street parking.
         (b)   There shall be no more than 2 deliveries per week to the
residence by suppliers, except that delivery of mail and small packages by the
United States Postal Service or by alternative private delivery services shall
not be included as supplier deliveries.
      (13)   Sale of products. There shall be no sale of products or services
except as are produced on the premises by the home occupation, except that
products not produced on the premises that are incidental to services being
performed as a part of the home occupation may be sold in limited quantities.
      (14)   Exemptions from home occupations.
         (a)   Garage and yard sales.
            1.   Garage sales and the sale of produce grown on the premises are
not classified as home occupations.
            2.   These uses are exempt from the provisions of this section.
            3.   However, the uses are subject to other applicable sections of
this chapter.
            4.   Garage and yard sales are also regulated under §
110.40.
         (b)   Home occupations prohibited in all residential districts. The
following shall not be classified as a home occupation:
            1.   Outdoor automobile, truck, and heavy equipment repair;
            2.   Auto bodywork;
            3.   Auto body painting;
            4.   Parking and storage of heavy equipment.
   (J)   Small on-site wind energy systems. The following site development
standards shall apply to all small on-site wind energy systems in the township
and shall be subject to all applicable requirements of the Site Plan Article
and sections of this chapter including §
150.257(K).
      (1)   Blade/ground clearance. The lowest extension of any blade or other
exposed moving component shall be at least 15 feet above the ground (at the
highest point of the natural grade within 30 feet of the base of the tower)
and, in addition, at least 15 feet above any outdoor surfaces intended for
human use, such as decks, balconies or roof gardens, that are located below the
small tower or structure mounted wind energy system.
      (2)   Guy wires. If the small on-site wind tower mounted energy system is
supported by guy wires, the wires shall be covered with a high visibility
material or fenced so as to make them visible at a height of at least 6 feet
above the ground.
      (3)   Setbacks tower mounted wind energy system. Shall be set back from
an adjoining lot line or a public or private road right-of-way a distance equal
to the total height of the wind turbine generator plus 10%, however, no part of
the wind turbine generator, including guy wire anchors, may extend closer to
the property line or waterfront than the required setback for the district in
which the unit is located. A small wind energy system shall be located in the
rear yard and shall have a setback of 20 feet from all occupied buildings on
the applicant’s parcel. The Planning Commission may reduce the setback if the
neighboring property is under the same ownership or based on other factors such
as topography specific to the site.
      (4)   Setbacks structure mounted wind energy system. Shall be set back a
minimum of 15 feet from the property line, public or private right-of-way,
easement, or overhead utility lines if mounted directly on a roof or other
elevated surface of a structure. If affixed by any extension to the side, roof,
or other elevated surface then the setback from the property line, public or
private right-of-way or easement shall be a minimum of 15 feet. The setback
shall be measured from the furthest outward extension of all moving parts.
      (5)   Noise. Small on-site wind energy systems shall not cause a sound
pressure level in excess of 55 dB(A) as measured at the nearest property line.
This level may be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and
severe wind storms.
      (6)   Vibration. Small on-site wind energy systems shall not cause
vibrations through the ground which are perceptible beyond the property line of
the parcel on which it is located.
      (7)   Reception/signal interference. Small on-site wind energy systems
shall not cause interference with communication systems such as, but not
limited to, television, microwave, satellite emergency communications, wireless
phone, navigational or radio reception to neighboring areas.
      (8)   Shadow flicker. Small on-site wind energy systems shall not cause
shadow flicker upon any structure on a neighboring property. The wind turbine
generator owner may obtain written agreements which allow shadow flicker to
cross an occupied structure.
      (9)   Potential ice throw. Ice throw or ice shedding from the wind
turbine generator shall not cross the property lines of the site nor impinge on
any right-of-way or overhead utility line.
      (10)   Safety. Small on-site wind energy systems shall be equipped with
an automatic braking, governing or feathering system to prevent uncontrolled
rotation, over-speed, and excessive pressure on the tower or building
structure, rotor blades and other wind energy components unless the
manufacturer certifies that a braking system is not necessary.
      (11)   Signs. Small on-site wind energy systems shall not be used for
displaying any advertising (including flags, streamers, or decorative items),
except for the identification of the turbine manufacture, a clearly visible
warning sign regarding voltage shall be placed at the base of a tower or
structure mounted system, or any other required information (e.g. Underwriters
Libratory (UL) label, emergency contact phone number) this sign shall not
exceed 3 square feet.
      (12)   Visual appearance. Small on-site wind energy systems including
accessory structures shall be a non-reflective, non-obtrusive color (e.g.
white, gray, black). The appearance of the system and any ancillary facilities
shall be maintained throughout the life of the system.
      (13)   Lighting. Small on-site wind energy systems shall not be
artificially lighted, except to the extent required by law or other applicable
authority, or otherwise for the reasonable safety and security thereof.
      (14)   Utility connection. If the small on-site wind energy system is
connected to a public utility (Consumers Energy) for net-metering purposes, it
shall meet the requirements for interconnection and operation as set forth in
the public utility's then-current service regulations meeting federal, state,
and industry standards applicable to wind power generation facilities, and the
connection shall be inspected by the utility.
      (15)   Other regulations. On-site wind energy systems shall comply with
all applicable state construction and electrical codes, regulations contained
in the Jackson County Airport - Reynolds Field Airport Zoning Manual, Federal
Aviation Administration requirements, Michigan Aeronautics Commission
requirements, the Michigan Tall Structures Act (Public Act 259 of 1959, as
amended), and the Michigan Public Service Commission and Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission standards.
   (K)   Utility grid, large wind energy facilities/systems.
      (1)   Site development standards. Shall apply to all utility grid large
wind energy facilities/systems including any applicable provisions of small on-
site wind energy systems in the township and shall be subject to all applicable
requirements of the Site Plan Article and sections of this chapter including
the following:
      (2)   Wind energy facilities and anemometer towers. Anemometer towers and
wind energy facilities consisting of 1 or more wind turbines whose main purpose
is to supply electricity to off-site customers may be allowed as a special land
use and shall adhere to the following requirements in addition to the
requirements contained in this chapter:
         (a)   Principal or accessory use. A wind energy facility or anemometer
tower may be considered either a principal or an accessory use. A different
existing use or an existing structure on the same parcel shall not preclude the
installation of a wind energy facility or a part of the facility on the parcel.
Wind energy facilities that are constructed and installed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion
of a nonconforming use or structure.
         (b)   Avian analysis and wildlife impact. An applicant shall submit an
avian study to assess the potential impact of a proposed wind energy facility
upon bird and bat species. The avian study shall at a minimum report a
literature survey for threatened and endangered species, and any information on
critical flyways. The analysis shall also include the potential effects on
species listed under the federal Endangered Species Act and Michigan's
Endangered Species Protection Law. The applicant must identify any plans for
post-construction monitoring or studies. The analysis should also include an
explanation of potential impacts and propose a mitigation plan, if necessary.
         (c)   State or federal requirements. Any proposed wind turbine
generator anemometer tower shall meet or exceed any standards and regulations
of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Michigan Aeronautics Commission
(MAC), the Michigan Public Service Commission, National Electric Safety Code,
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and any other agency of the state or
federal government with the authority to regulate wind turbine generators or
other tall structures in effect at the time the special land use approval is
approved.
         (d)   Sufficient wind resources. The proposed site shall have
documented annual wind resources sufficient for the operation of the proposed
wind turbine generator; provided, however, this standard shall not apply to an
anemometer tower. No wind turbine generator shall be approved without
submission of a wind resource study documenting wind resources on the site. The
township may retain the services of an independent, recognized expert to review
the results of the wind resource study prior to acting on the application for
special approval. All costs for the study shall be at the applicant expense.
         (e)   Minimum site area. The minimum site area for a wind turbine
generator or an anemometer tower erected prior to a wind turbine generator
shall meet required setbacks and any other standards of this chapter.
         (f)   Setbacks. Each proposed wind turbine generator or anemometer
tower shall meet the following applicable setback requirements:
            1.   Setback from property line. Each wind turbine generator shall
be set back from any adjoining lot line a distance equal to the total height of
the wind turbine generator including the top of the blade in its vertical
position. The Planning Commission may reduce this setback to no less than 100
feet; provided the adjoining property is owned or leased by the applicant or an
easement is obtained. If the adjoining property that is owned or leased by the
applicant includes more than 1 parcel, the properties may be considered in
combination in determining setback relief. The amount of setback relief
approved by the Planning Commission will be based on data provided by the
applicant and prepared by a qualified professional. The data shall satisfy the
Planning Commission that any potential blade and ice throw will not cross the
property line and that sound levels will not exceed 55 decibels on the dB(A)
scale at the property line from the proposed setback. Data provided shall be
specific to the proposed tower in the proposed location taking into
consideration prevailing winds, topography, existing vegetation, and other
relevant factors.
            2.   Setback from road. In addition to the above, a wind turbine
generator shall, in all cases, be set back from a public or private road right-
of-way a minimum distance equal to the height of the wind turbine generator
total height plus 10% as defined in this chapter.
            3.   Setback from structures. Each wind turbine generator shall be
setback from the nearest inhabited structure a distance not less than 1 ½ times
the total height of the wind turbine generator.
            4.   Setback from communication and power lines. Each wind turbine
shall be set back from the nearest above-ground public electric power line or
telephone line a distance of no less than 400 feet or 1 ½ times the total tower
height, whichever is greater, determined from the existing power or
communications lines.
            5.   Building setbacks. Setbacks for buildings accessory to a wind
turbine generator shall conform to the setbacks of the district.
         (g)   Height. Regarding wind turbine height, the applicant shall
demonstrate compliance with the Michigan Tall Structures Act (Public Act 259 of
1959, as amended), FAA guidelines, and Michigan Aeronautics Commission
guidelines as part of the approval process.
         (h)   Tower separation. Wind turbine separation distance shall be
based on 1) industry standards, 2) manufacturer recommendation, and 3) the
characteristics such as prevailing wind and topography, of the particular site
location. At a minimum, there shall be a separation between the towers of not
less than 3 times the turbine rotor diameter. Documents shall be submitted by
the developer/manufacturer confirming specifications for tower separation.
         (i)   Minimum ground clearance. The lowest point of the arc created by
rotating wind vanes or blades on a wind turbine generator shall be no less than
20 feet.
         (j)   Maximum noise levels. The sound pressure level generated by the
wind energy system shall not exceed 55 dB(A) measured at neighboring property
lines. This level may be exceeded during short-term events such as utility
outages and severe wind storms.
         (k)   Maximum vibrations. Any proposed wind turbine generator shall
not produce vibrations through the ground humanly perceptible beyond the parcel
on which it is located.
         (l)   Potential ice throw. Ice throw or ice shedding for a wind
turbine generator shall not cross the property lines of the site nor impinge on
any right-of-way or overhead utility line.
         (m)   Signal interference. No wind turbine generator shall be
installed in any location where proximity to existing fixed broadcast,
retransmission, or reception antennas for radio, television, navigation,
emergency communication systems, wireless phone or other personal communication
systems would produce electromagnetic interference with signal transmission or
reception. No wind turbine generator shall be installed in any location along
the major axis of an existing microwave communications link where its operation
is likely to produce electromagnetic interference with the link's operation.
         (n)   Visual impact, lighting, power lines.
            1.   Wind turbines shall be mounted on tubular or lattice towers,
painted a non-reflective, non-obtrusive neutral color. The appearance of
turbines, towers, and buildings shall be maintained throughout the life of the
wind energy facility pursuant to industry standards (i.e. condition of exterior
paint, signs, landscaping). A certified registered Michigan licensed engineer
and authorized factory representative shall certify that the construction and
installation of the wind energy facility meets or exceeds the manufacturer's
construction and installation standards.
            2.   The design of the wind energy facility's buildings and related
structures shall, to the extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors,
textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend facility components with
the natural setting and the environment existing at the time of installation.
The landscaping requirements section of the Zoning Ordinance shall be complied
with and addressed in the site plan.
            3.   Wind turbine generators shall not be artificially lighted,
except to the extent required by the FAA or the MAC or other applicable
authority, or otherwise necessary for the reasonable safety and security
thereof. If lighting is required, the lighting alternatives and design chosen:
               a.   Shall be the intensity required under state or federal
regulations.
               b.   Shall not be strobe lighting or other intermittent white
lighting fixtures, unless expressly required by state or federal regulations.
The intermittent lighting shall be alternated with steady red lights at night
if acceptable to state or federal regulations.
               c.   May be a red top light that does not pulsate or blink.
               d.   All tower lighting required by state or federal regulations
shall be shielded to the extent possible to reduce glare and visibility from
the ground.
            4.   Wind turbines shall not be used to display any advertising
(including flags, streamers, or decorative items), except the reasonable
identification of the manufacturer or operator of the wind energy facility.
            5.   The electrical collection system shall be placed underground
within the interior of each parcel at a depth designed to accommodate the
existing agricultural land to the maximum extent practicable. The collection
system may be placed overhead adjacent to state and county roadways, near
substations or points of interconnection to the electric grid or in other areas
as necessary.
         (o)   Shadow flicker.
            1.   The wind turbine generator shall be designed in such a manner
as to minimize shadow flicker on a roadway. The wind turbine generator shall be
designed in such a manner as to prevent shadow flicker on any existing
structures located off the property on which the wind turbine generator is
located. If necessary to prevent shadow flicker from crossing occupied
structures, the wind turbine generator may be programmed to stop rotating
during times when the wind turbine generator shadow crosses these structures.
The wind turbine generator operator may obtain written agreements which allow
shadow flicker to cross an occupied structure.
            2.   The Planning Commission may require the applicant to conduct
an analysis of potential shadow flicker at occupied structures if it deems such
an analysis necessary. The analysis shall identify the locations of shadow
flicker that may be caused by the project and the expected durations of the
flicker at these locations from sunrise to sunset over the course of a year.
The analysis shall identify problem areas where shadow flicker may affect the
occupants of the structures and describe measures that shall be taken to
eliminate or mitigate the problems. All costs for the analysis shall be at the
applicant expense.
         (p)   Safety.
            1.   All collection system wiring shall comply with all applicable
safety and stray voltage standards.
            2.   Wind turbine towers shall not be climbable up to 15 feet above
ground surfaces.
            3.   All access doors to wind turbine towers and electrical
equipment shall be lockable and/or fenced as appropriate, to prevent entry by
non-authorized person(s).
            4.   Each wind turbine tower shall have 1 sign, not to exceed 3
square feet posted at the base of the tower and on the security fence if
applicable. The sign shall contain at least the following:
               a.   Warning high voltage;
               b.   Manufacturer's and owner/operators name; and
               c.   Emergency contact numbers (list more than 1 number).
            5.   All wind turbine generators shall be equipped with controls to
control the rotational speed of the blades within design limits for the
specific wind turbine generator and be equipped with an automatic braking,
governing or feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, over-speed,
and excessive pressure on the tower or building structure, rotor blades and
other wind energy components.
            6.   The structural integrity of the tower(s) shall conform to the
design standards of the International Electrical Commission, specifically "Wind
Turbine Safety and Design," "Wind Turbine Certification," and "Blade Structural
Testing," or similar successor standards.
         (q)   Hazard planning. An application for a wind turbine generator
shall be accompanied by a hazard prevention plan. The plan shall contain:
            1.   Certification that the electrical wiring between turbines and
between turbines and the utility right-of-way does not pose a fire hazard or
any life safety hazard.
            2.   Location of landscaping is to be designed to avoid spread of
fire from any source on the turbine; such preventative measures may address the
types and locations of vegetation below the turbine and on the site. The
landscaping shall be maintained to prevent the creation of life safety hazards
(fire, emergency access, electrical contact). In addition to the above all
landscaping shall comply with the provisions of the landscaping requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance.
            3.   A listing of any hazardous fluids that may be used on site
shall be provided, including Material Data Safety Sheets (MDSS). All spent
lubricants, cooling fluids, and any other hazardous materials shall be properly
and safely removed in a timely manner.
            4.   Certification that the turbine has been designed to contain
any hazardous fluids shall be provided.
            5.   A statement certifying that the turbine shall be routinely
inspected to ensure that no fluids are released from the turbine.
            6.   All towers shall be inspected annually by a certified
registered Michigan licensed engineer and authorized factory representative to
insure the structural integrity of the tower, appurtenances added to the tower,
equipment added to the tower, and fixtures added to the tower. A report shall
be provided to the township Building Inspector on or before August 1 of each
year.
         (r)   Approvals. All required approvals from other local, regional,
state or federal agencies must be obtained prior to approval of a site plan. In
the case where site plan approval is a requirement for other local, regional,
state, or federal agency approval, evidence of such shall be submitted with the
site plan.
         (s)   Decommissioning/removal of wind turbine generators.
            1.   The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan. The plan
shall include:
               a.   The anticipated life of the project.
               b.   The estimated decommissioning costs in current dollars. The
costs shall not include credit for salvageable value of any materials.
               c.   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration shall be as required by the Planning
Commission.
               d.   The anticipated manner in which the project will be
decommissioned and the site restored.
            2.   Any wind turbine generator or anemometer tower that is not
operational for a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned,
and the owner of the wind turbine generator or anemometer tower shall remove
the same within 180 days of abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned wind
turbine generator or anemometer tower within the 180 day period provided in
this division shall be grounds for the township to remove the wind turbine
generator or anemometer tower at the owner's expense.
            3.   In addition to removing the wind turbine generator, or
anemometer tower, the owner shall restore the site of the wind turbine
generator or anemometer tower to its original condition prior to location of
the wind turbine generator or anemometer tower, subject to reasonable wear and
tear. Any foundation associated with a wind generator or anemometer tower shall
be removed to a minimum depth of 5 feet below the final grade and site
vegetation shall be restored.
            4.   The Planning Commission shall require the owner of the wind
turbine generator to deposit a performance guarantee in an amount equal to the
estimated costs associated with the removal of the wind turbine generator or
anemometer tower and all associated equipment and accessory structures and
restoration of the site to a reusable condition which shall include the removal
of all underground structures to a depth of 5 feet below the natural ground
level at that location. The amount of the performance guarantee shall be
reviewed every 5 years. The performance guarantee shall be in the form of a
cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety
bond acceptable to the township.
         (t)   Equipment replacement. Major components of the wind turbine
generator may be replaced without a modification of the special use permit
provided all regulations contained herein are adhered to.
   (L)   Utility grid, large solar energy facility (solar farm). The purpose of
this subsection is to establish minimum requirements and regulations for the
siting, installation, operation, repair, decommissioning, and removal of
utility grid, large solar energy facilities (hereafter referred to as solar
farms), as defined in §
150.006, while promoting the safe, effective, and efficient use of such energy
facilities as a conditional use in specified zoning districts. The following
requirements shall apply to all solar farms:
      (1)   Location. All solar farms are limited to the Agricultural (AG-1),
Light Industrial (L-I), and General Industrial (I-2) districts.
      (2)   Regulations and design standards. All solar farms shall comply with
the following minimum regulations and design standards.
         (a)   Design standards.
            1.   Minimum lot size. No solar farm shall be erected on any zoning
lot less than 20 acres in size (as defined in §
150.006).
            2.   Maximum height. The maximum height for a solar panel shall be
14 feet. The maximum height of a power switchyard (as defined in §
150.006) shall not exceed the minimum height needed to tie into electric
transmission lines. The height of all other buildings and accessory structures
shall comply with the maximum building height requirements of the applicable
zoning district in which the solar farm is located, as listed in §
150.146. The height of required lightning rods attached to the power switchyard
or solar farm related equipment shall not be subject to the foregoing height
limitations. The height of lightning rods shall be limited to that height
necessary to protect the power switchyard and solar farm equipment from
lightning.
            3.   Setbacks. Solar farm facilities and related structures and
components shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from all lot lines. In
addition, solar farm solar arrays and other structures must be located at least
300 feet from the road right-of-way along US-127 and M-50; 150 feet from the
road right-of-way along all other roadways, public and private; and 150 feet
from any lot line adjacent to all existing Rural Non-Farm Residential (RNF-1),
Suburban Residential (RS-1 and RS-2), Urban Residential (RU-1 and RU-2),
Multiple-Family Residential (RM-1 and RM-2), and Mobile Home Residential (MH-1)
district land; and any lot line adjacent to an existing residence at the time
the solar farm is granted conditional use approval, unless the zoning lot is
comprised of a portion of the lot containing the residence. Additional setbacks
may be required to mitigate noise and glare impacts or to provide for
designated road or utility corridors, as identified through the review process.
            4.   Safety/access.
               a.   Security fencing shall be installed around the solar farm
as follows: fencing to be a minimum of 6 feet and a maximum of 8 feet in
height; fencing to be located inside the perimeter of screening, if any. Knox
boxes and keys shall be provided at locked entrances for emergency personnel
access.
               b.   Appropriate warning signage shall be placed at the entrance
and perimeter of the solar farm.
            5.   Noise. No component of any solar farm shall produce noise that
exceeds any of the following limitations. Adequate setbacks shall be provided
to comply with these limitations:
               a.   50 dBA, as measured at the property line of any adjacent
Rural Non-Farm Residential (RNF-1), Suburban Residential (RS-1 and RS-2), Urban
Residential (RU-1 and RU-2), Multiple-Family Residential (RM-1 and RM-2), and
Mobile Home Residential (MH-1) district zoned land in existence at the time the
solar farm is granted conditional use approval;
               b.   45 dBA, as measured at any neighboring residence in
existence at the time the solar farm is granted conditional use approval,
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
               c.   60 dBA, as measured at the lot lines of the project
boundary.
            6.   Visual appearance.
               a.   Solar farm buildings and accessory structures shall, to the
extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, and textures that will blend
the solar farm into the existing environment.
               b.   The perimeter of solar farm facilities shall also be
screened and buffered by installing evergreen vegetative plantings whenever
existing natural forest vegetation does not otherwise continuously obscure the
solar farm’s entire lot perimeter from adjacent parcels, subject to the
following requirements:
                  i.   Unless screened and buffered at all times by natural
forest vegetation having a substantially similar obscuring effect of an
evergreen vegetative buffer installed pursuant to this subsection, a continuous
evergreen vegetative buffer shall be installed and maintained at all times at
the perimeter of all solar farms.
                  ii.   The evergreen vegetative buffer shall be composed of
evergreen trees or shrubs that at planting shall be a minimum of 6 feet in
height. The evergreen trees or shrubs shall be spaced no more than 10 feet
apart on center (from the central trunk of 1 plant to the central trunk of the
next plant). Within 5 years of planting, required evergreen vegetative
screening shall be no less than 15 feet tall.
                  iii.   Failure to continuously maintain the required
evergreen vegetative buffer shall constitute a violation of this code and
sufficient grounds for revocation of any conditional use permit previously
granted.
                  iv.   An alternate screening method may be considered for
approval by the Planning Commission as long as it has a substantially similar
obscuring effect of an evergreen buffer.
                  v.   If the solar farm is not visible from any road and if
the solar farm is not visible from any existing residence, the screening
requirements may be modified at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
               c.   Lighting of the solar farm shall be limited to the minimum
necessary, supplied with down lighting, and in no case shall any illumination
from such lighting extend beyond the perimeter of the solar farm. A photometric
study may be used to make this determination.
               d.   No solar farm shall produce glare that would constitute a
nuisance to occupants of neighboring properties or to persons traveling
neighboring roads. Upon written notice from the Zoning Administrator or such
other person designated by the Township Board to the owners of the solar farm
that glare from the solar farm is causing a nuisance to occupants of
neighboring property or to persons traveling neighboring roads, the owner of
the solar farm shall have a reasonable time (not to exceed 180 consecutive
days) from the date of such notice to remediate such glare.
            7.   Medium voltage cable. All medium voltage cable (as defined in
§ 150.006) within the project boundary shall be installed underground unless
determined otherwise by the Planning Commission because of severe environmental
constraints (e.g. wetlands, cliffs, hard bedrock), and except for power
switchyards (as defined in §
150.006) or area within a substation. All electrical interconnections and
distribution components must comply with all applicable codes and public
utility requirements.
         (b)   Local, state and federal permits. A solar farm shall be required
to obtain all necessary permits from the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality (see §
150.257(L)(4)(b)) and any applicable municipal, county, state, or federal
permits.
         (c)   Agreements/easements. If the zoning lot (as defined in §
150.006) on which the project is proposed is to be leased, rather than owned,
by the owner of the solar farm, all property within the project boundary must
be included in a recorded easement(s), lease(s), or consent agreement(s)
specifying the applicable uses for the duration of the project. All necessary
leases, easements, or other agreements between the owner of the solar farm and
property owners must be in place prior to commencing construction, unless
specified otherwise by the conditional use permit.
      (3)   Permit applications.
         (a)   An application for a conditional use permit to establish a solar
farm must include a complete description of the project and documentation to
sufficiently demonstrate that the requirements set forth in §
150.257(L)(2)(a) will be met. Supporting documentation for addressing the
review criteria of §
150.257(L)(4) is also to be provided. The Planning Commission and Township
Board may require any information reasonably necessary to determine compliance
with this code. The application must also be accompanied by detailed site plans
drawn to scale and dimensioned and certified by a registered engineer licensed
in the State of Michigan, displaying the following information:
            1.   All lot lines and dimensions, including a legal description of
each lot or parcel comprising the solar farm;
            2.   Names of owners of each lot or parcel within Summit Township
that is proposed to be within the solar farm;
            3.   Vicinity map showing the location of all surrounding land
uses;
            4.   Location and height of all proposed solar array(s), buildings,
structures, electrical tie lines and transmission lines, security fencing, and
all above-ground structures and utilities associated with a solar farm;
            5.   Horizontal and vertical (elevation) to scale drawings with
dimensions that show the location of the proposed solar array(s), buildings,
structures, electrical tie lines and transmission lines, security fencing and
all above ground structures and utilities on the property;
            6.   Location of all existing and proposed overhead and underground
electrical transmission or distribution lines within the solar farm and within
1,000 feet of the outside perimeter of the solar farm;
            7.   Proposed setbacks from the solar array(s) to all existing and
proposed structures within the solar farm;
            8.   Land elevations for the solar array(s) location and the
relationship to the land elevations of all existing and proposed structures
within the solar farm;
            9.   Access driveways within and to the solar farm, together with a
detailed narrative regarding dimensions, composition, and maintenance of each
proposed driveway. All access drives shall be subject to Jackson County
Department of Transportation approval, and shall be planned so as to minimize
the use of lands for that purpose;
            10.   Planned security measures to prevent unauthorized trespass
and access and to warn of potential dangers during the construction, operation,
removal, maintenance or repair of the solar farm;
            11.   A written description of the maintenance program to be used
for the solar array(s) and other components of the solar farm, including
decommissioning and removal when determined by the township to be obsolete,
uneconomic, or abandoned. The description shall include maintenance schedules,
types of maintenance to be performed, and decommissioning and removal
procedures and schedules if the solar farm becomes obsolete, uneconomic or
abandoned;
            12.   A copy of the manufacturer’s safety measures;
            13.   Planned lighting protection measures; and
            14.   Additional detail(s) and information as required by the
conditional use permit requirements of the Zoning Code, or as required by the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   It is preferred that any related conditional use permit
applications for substations or new transmission lines be considered in
conjunction with the conditional use permit application for the solar farm;
however, if the details of those improvements are not available at the time of
application for the solar farm, they may be considered later, through
subsequent conditional use permit review. At a minimum, the intended route for
connecting to the power grid and the alternative locations of any substation
shall be disclosed with the application for the solar farm.
         (c)   Due to the complexity of solar farm projects, the township may
require a development agreement or other appropriate instrument to address
taxing, property assessment, decommissioning bond, and other related issues not
addressed by this subsection. A development agreement may be required as a
condition of the permit, and must be approved by the Township Board prior to
commencing construction.
      (4)   Provisions for conditional use permit review. In addition to the
standards set forth for conditional use approval in §
150.253, additional consideration shall be given to the following:
         (a)   Project rationale. Project rationale, including estimated
construction schedule, project life, phasing, and likely buyers or markets for
the generated energy.
         (b)   Siting considerations. Siting considerations, such as avoiding
areas/locations with a high potential for biological conflict such as areas of
environmental concern, parks, trails, special management areas or important
wildlife habitat or corridors; avoiding visual corridors that are prominent
scenic view sheds; avoiding areas of erodible slopes and soils, where concerns
for water quality, landslide, severe erosion, or high storm runoff potential
have been identified; and, avoiding known sensitive historical, cultural or
archeological resources.
         (c)   Wildlife habitat areas and migration patterns. Specifically
include information on any use of the site by endangered or threatened species
and whether the project is in a biologically significant area. If threatened or
endangered species exist in the area, consultation with the Michigan
Departments of Natural Resources and Environmental Quality will be necessary.
         (d)   Environmental analysis. The Planning Commission may require an
analysis of impacts to historic, cultural and archaeological resources; soil
erosion (water and wind); flora; and water quality and water supply in the area
when there is reason to believe that adverse impacts to such may occur.
         (e)   Hazardous waste. As applicable, the application must include
plans for the spill prevention, clean-up, and disposal of fuels, oils, and
hazardous wastes.
         (f)   Transportation plan for construction and operation phases. Proof
of an agreement with the Jackson County Department of Transportation and the
Michigan Department of Transportation (if applicable) regarding any
construction phase of the project is required.
         (g)   Public safety. Identify and address any known or suspected
potential hazards to adjacent properties, public roadways, communities,
aviation, and the like that may be created by the project.
         (h)   Decommissioning plan. Describe the decommissioning and final
land reclamation plan to be followed after the anticipated useful life, or
abandonment, or termination of the project, including evidence of proposed
commitments with affected parties (i.e., township, any lessor or property
owner, etc.) that ensure proper final reclamation of the solar farm. Among
other things, revegetation and road repair activities should be addressed in
the plan. Under this plan, all structures and facilities shall be removed,
including any structures below-grade, and removed offsite for disposal. No
concrete, piping and other materials may be left in place. The ground must be
restored to its original condition within 180 consecutive days.
      (5)   Application escrow account. An escrow account shall be deposited
with the township by the applicant when the applicant applies for a conditional
use permit for a solar farm. The monetary amount deposited by the applicant in
escrow with the township shall be the amount estimated by the township to cover
all reasonable costs and expenses associated with the conditional use permit
review and approval process, which costs shall include, but are not limited to,
reasonable fees of the Township Attorney, Township Planner and Township
Engineer, as well as costs for any reports or studies that are reasonably
related to the zoning review process for the application. Such escrow amount
shall be in addition to any filing or application fees established by
resolution. At any point during the review process, the township may require
that the applicant place additional funds into escrow with the township if the
existing escrow amount deposited by the applicant is deemed insufficient by the
township. If the escrow account needs replenishing and the applicant refuses to
do so promptly, the review process shall cease unless and until the applicant
makes the required additional escrow deposit.
      (6)   Decommissioning escrow account. If a conditional use permit is
approved pursuant to this subsection, the township shall require security in
the form of a cash deposit, or surety bond acceptable to the township, which
will be furnished to the township in order to ensure full compliance with this
subsection and all conditions of approval. When determining the amount of each
required security, the township may also require an annual escalator or
increase based on the Consumer Price Index (or the equivalent or its
successor). Such financial guarantee shall be deposited or filed with the
Township Clerk after a conditional use permit has been approved but before
construction commences on the solar farm. At a minimum, the financial security
shall be in an amount determined by the township to be reasonably sufficient to
restore the property to its previous condition prior to construction and
operation of the solar farm. Such financial security shall be kept in full
force and effect during the entire time that the solar farm exists or is in
place, and such financial security shall be irrevocable and non-cancelable.
      (7)   Code compliance. Construction of a solar farm shall comply with the
National Electric Safety Code and any applicable Michigan construction codes as
a condition of any conditional use permit under this subsection.
      (8)   Certified solar array components. Components of a solar farm shall
be approved by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE),
Solar Rating and Certification Corporation (SRCC), Electronic Testing
Laboratories (EIL), or other similar certification organization acceptable to
the township.
      (9)   Solar access. The township makes no assurance of solar access other
than the provisions contained within this subsection. The applicant may provide
evidence of covenants, easements, or similar documentation for abutting
property owners providing access to solar energy for the operation of a solar
farm.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.5.7, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord.
passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
150.999
SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 150.270 GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to require site plan approval for
certain buildings, structures, and uses that can be expected to have a
significant impact on natural resources, traffic patterns, and adjacent parcels
and land uses, and on the character of future development.
   (B)   It is further the purpose of this subchapter to achieve, through site
plan review, safe and convenient traffic movement, both within a site and in
relation to access streets; harmonious relationships of buildings, structures,
and uses, both within a site and with adjacent sites; and to conserve natural
features and resources.
   (C)   It is further the intent of this subchapter to delegate certain
aspects of site plan review authority to the Township Planning Commission,
within the standards and requirements set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.271 USES REQUIRING SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The following buildings, structures, and uses require site plan
approval:
      (1)   A multiple-family building;
      (2)   More than 1 multiple-family building on a lot or parcel of land, or
on a combination of lots under 1 ownership;
      (3)   A mobile home park, as provided for by the State of Michigan Mobile
Home Park Regulations;
      (4)   Any building or structure in a commercial, office, or industrial
district;
      (5)   Any addition to an existing building or structure in a commercial,
office, or industrial district, except as provided in §
150.279;
      (6)   More than 1 building or structure, except a sign, on a lot or
parcel, or combination of lots under 1 ownership, in any commercial, office, or
industrial district;
      (7)   A use permitted in any commercial and industrial district which
does not involve a building, such as, but not limited to, outdoor sales,
outdoor displays, or storage of wrecked vehicles;
      (8)   Any principal nonresidential building or structure permitted in
residential districts and any principal building or structure, except farm
buildings permitted in recreation-conservation and agriculture district;
      (9)   Public utility buildings and structures, including poles, towers,
and telephone repeater buildings;
      (10)   Any project undertaken under the authority of the Michigan
Condominium Act, as amended, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 -
559.272;
      (11)   Commercial telecommunication facilities and associated structures
(providing further, that site plan review of the projects may not be waived by
the Township Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator); and
      (12)   Open space developments in AG-1, RNF-1, and RS-1 under Public Act
177 of 2001.
   (B)   Major projects include:
      (1)   All developments greater than 25,000 square feet of structure or
larger than 2 acres of size; and
      (2)   Open space developments.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning compliance permit
for construction of, or an addition to, any of the above listed buildings or
developments, until a final site plan has been reviewed by the Township
Planning Commission and approved by the Township Board.
   (D)   No grading, removal of trees or other vegetation, land filling, or
construction of improvements shall commence for any development, which requires
site plan approval, until a final site plan is approved and is in effect.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.1, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.272 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever any site plan approval for a property is
requested, before any building permit for the erection of a permanent building
on the site shall be granted, the developer or his or her authorized agent
shall apply for and secure approval of the site plan in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Application; fee.
         (a)   The applicant shall file an official site plan approval
application form; submit required data, exhibits, and information; and deposit
the required fee as established by resolution of Summit Township Board, except
that no fee shall be required of any governmental body or agency.
         (b)   No part of the fee shall be returnable to the applicant.
      (2)   Staging.
         (a)   If the applicant wishes to stage the site plan and has so
indicated on the development plan, the development plan may be submitted with
only those stages he or she wishes to develop at this time.
         (b)   Any plan which requires more than 24 months to be completed
shall be required to be staged and staging plan shall be developed.
      (3)   Review of the development plan. The proposed site plan must be
reviewed according to the procedures and requirements outlined in §§
150.330 et seq., procedure for evaluating development proposals and development
plan requirements.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.273 CRITERIA OF SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Plans submitted for site plan review shall be approved upon a finding
that the following criteria are met.
      (1)   The proposed use will not be injurious to the general health,
safety, and welfare of the township and surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   The location of buildings, outside storage receptacles, parking
areas, screen walls and utility areas is such that the adverse effects of the
uses will be minimized for the occupants of that use and surrounding areas.
      (3)   The design of storm sewers, storm water facilities, roads/streets,
parking lots, driveways, water mains, sanitary sewers and other site
improvements meets the design and construction standards of the township and
other appropriate agencies.
      (4)   (a)   Proper access to all portions of the site and all sides of
any structure is provided.
         (b)   All structures or groups of structures shall be so arranged as
to permit emergency vehicle access by some practical means to all sides.
         (c)   Site features such as, but not limited to, trees and other plant
materials, fences, retaining walls, berms, outdoor furniture, outdoor
structures, and natural and artificial water bodies shall be arranged to permit
adequate emergency vehicle access.
      (5)   Site planning and design of specified improvements will accomplish,
to the extent reasonably feasible, the preservation and protection of existing
natural resources and features such as lakes, ponds, streams, wetlands, flood
plains, steep slopes, ground water, trees and wooded areas.
      (6)   Waste water treatment systems, including on-site septic systems
will be located to minimize any potential degradation of surface water or
ground water quality.
      (7)   Sites which include storage of hazardous materials waste, fuels,
salt, or chemicals will be designed to prevent spills and discharges of
polluting materials to the surface of the air or to the ground, ground water or
nearby water bodies, with a specific plan to achieve the objectives being
incorporated as part of the site plan.
      (8)   The location of buildings, parking, drives, landscaping, and other
improvements on the site is appropriate and consistent with good design
standards for the lot size, shape, and general location.
      (9)   Landscaping, including grass, trees, shrubs, and other vegetation
is provided to maintain and improve the aesthetic quality of the site and area.
      (10)   (a)   The means of ingress and egress to and from the site shall
be planned with the objective of achieving recognized planning, engineering and
safety standards, and shall not result in an unreasonable risk of danger to
persons and/or property on the site and/or off the site.
         (b)   In general, this standard shall be met based upon the design of
ingress and egress in terms of the number, location and design of access
points, and utilization of acceleration, deceleration and passing lanes and
approaches.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall review the ingress and egress
proposed for the purpose of promoting and protecting traffic safety, and shall
require improvements accordingly.
      (11)   The site plan complies with all township ordinances.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may include conditions along with a
recommendation for approval that will further compliance with the criteria
listed above.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.274 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Generally. In the following cases, the township has designated the
Zoning Administrator to approve, based on policy, a site plan without
submission to the Planning Commission, but subject to all of the above
criteria, requirements, and standards.
   (B)   Cases.
      (1)   Accessory uses incidental to a conforming existing use where the
use does not require any variance or further site modification;
      (2)   Provision for additional loading and unloading spaces and landscape
improvements as required by
ordinance; and
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, in his or her discretion, shall decide
whether a site plan review is necessary to carry out the spirit and intent of
this chapter, providing, however, that the plan must be approved as if it were
submitted for a building permit.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.275 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Utility plans for a particular site which involves township provided
sewer or water shall be submitted to the Township Department of Public Works
for review and approval.
   (B)   Proposed utilities shall conform to township approved standards.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.276 AMENDMENT OF APPROVED SITE PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   A site plan may be amended upon application and in accordance
with provisions and the procedures provided in §
150.273 for a final site plan.
      (2)   Site plans amended in order to be brought into compliance with the
requirements of governmental agencies of authority, other than Summit Township,
are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The Township Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to
determine if a proposed change is substantive and therefore requires an
amendment to the approved site plan.
   (B)   Minor changes of an approved final site plan may be incorporated
without amendment to the approved preliminary site plan at the discretion of
the Planning Commission.
   (C)   (1)   No deed recorded pursuant to an approved site plan may be
changed, altered, or amended, nor shall any document recorded pursuant to an
approved site plan deviate from the site plan submitted to the Planning
Commission by the alteration or changing of the area, size, dimensions, or lot
lines of any lot or unit.
      (2)   All the changes must be re-submitted to the Planning Commission
upon application and in accordance with the provisions and the procedures
provided in §
150.273 for site plan review, and subject to the costs provided in §
150.281.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning Administrator, at his or
her sound discretion, may approve an amendment to an approved site plan which
alters, or changes, the area, size, dimensions, or lot lines of a lot or unit
but only in the following circumstances:
         (a)   No lots or units in the development have been sold to a third
party by the developer;
         (b)   The proposed alterations or changes may only be approved if the
resulting lots or units comply in every respect with the requirements of all
statutes and ordinances which apply, including, but not limited to, ordinance
requirements which pertain to width, frontage, area, access, setback, and the
like; and
         (c)   In consideration whether to exercise the discretion granted the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to this sub-section to approve a proposed change
without Planning Commission approval, the Zoning Administrator shall
specifically determine that the granting of administrative approval is
consistent with the spirit and intent and will not be injurious to the general
health, safety and welfare of the township and surrounding neighborhood.
         (d)   To the extent that the Zoning Administrator exercises discretion
granted under §
150.276 the Zoning Administrator will file a report with the Township Board.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.6, passed 9-12-2006; Am. Ord. passed 3-28-2017)
§ 150.277 EXEMPT BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND USES.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, this subchapter shall not apply to the
replacement, repair of, the adding of an addition which does not exceed 10,000
square feet or 50% of original structure, whichever is less, or the alteration
of buildings, structures, or parking lots on commercial, industrial, or office
structures and uses where the proposed improvement meets all of the
requirements of this chapter, the Summit Township Building Code, the Summit
Township Electrical Code, and the Summit Township Plumbing Code, and where the
existing use is not materially changed in nature or character.
   (B)   (1)   In those cases, the Zoning Administrator may authorize a zoning
compliance permit for the construction of the improvement without a site plan
review.
      (2)   In the event that the proposed improvement requires additional
property, a conditional use, a variance, or substantially and materially
changes the existing use, then the Zoning Administrator shall refer the
proposed improvement to the Planning Commission for a site plan review subject
to all of the criteria set forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator at his or her discretion shall decide
whether a site plan review is necessary to carry out the spirit and intent of
this chapter, providing, however, that the plan must be approved as if it were
submitted for a building permit.
      (4)   There is no exemption, however, from the Site Plan Checklist, the
State and County Environmental Check List, or the Administrative Review set
forth in §
150.274.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.7, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.278 MODIFICATION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All improvements shall conform to the approved final site plan.
   (B)   If the applicant chooses to make any changes in the development in
relation to the approved final site plan, he or she shall do so at his or her
own risk, without any assurance that the Township Planning Commission will
approve the changes.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the Zoning
Administrator and the Planning Commission of any such changes.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission may require the
applicant to correct the changes so as to conform to the approved final site
plan.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.8, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.279 PHASING OF DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   An applicant may divide a proposed development into 2 or more phases
with the approval of the Planning Commission and the Township Board.
   (B)   The phasing shall be in conformance with §
150.273(A)(6).
   (C)   Future development beyond approved phases shall not appear on the
approved final site plan.
   (D)   A phase development shall not be developed in phases exceeding a total
of 5 years for all of the phases.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.9, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.280 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All sub-grade improvements such as utilities; sub-base and base
installations for drives and parking lots, and similar improvements shall be
inspected by the township and approved prior to covering.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the inspection of
all improvements for conformance to the approved final site plan.
   (C)   The applicant shall be responsible for requesting the necessary
inspections.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the Township Board, the Building
Administrator, and the Planning Commission, in writing, when a development for
which a final site plan was approved has passed inspection with respect to the
approved final site plan.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the Building Inspector, the
Township Board, and the Planning Commission, in writing, of any development for
which a final site plan was approved which does not pass inspection with
respect to the approved final site plan, and shall advise the Board and
Commission of steps taken to achieve compliance.
   (F)   In that case, the Zoning Administrator shall periodically notify the
Township Board and Planning Commission of progress towards compliance with the
approved final site plan, and when compliance is achieved.
   (G)   An occupancy permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator prior to
completion of the site improvement subject to the conditions and bond as may be
imposed by the Township Board.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.10, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.281 FEES.
   Fees for the review of site plans and inspections as required by this
subchapter shall be established, and may be amended, by resolution of the
Township Board.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.11, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.282 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The approved final site plan shall become part of the record of
approval and subsequent action relating to the site in question shall be
consistent with the approved final site plan unless the Planning Commission
approves changes as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Any violation of this subchapter, including any improvement not in
conformance with an approved final site plan, shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter as provided in §
150.352, and shall be subjected to the penalties therein.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.6.12, passed 9-12-2006)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 150.295 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Where within the districts established by this chapter, or by
amendments, there exists lots, structures, and uses of land and structures
which were lawful before this chapter was adopted or amended and which would be
prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter, or future
amendment; it is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are discontinued, damaged, or removed but not to encourage
their survival.
   (B)   These nonconformities are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with the lots, structures, and uses permitted by this chapter in certain
districts.
   (C)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the nonconformities
shall not be enlarged, expanded, or extended except as provided herein; nor be
used as ground for adding other lots, structures, or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.7, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.296 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   (A)   Generally. Where, on the date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, a lawful use of land exists that is no longer permissible under the
provisions of this chapter, the use may be continued, so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No nonconforming use of land shall be enlarged, expanded, or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter; and no accessory use or
structure shall be established therewith.
      (2)   No nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other portion of the land not occupied on the effective date or adoption of
amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period of
more than 180 consecutive days, the subsequent use of the land shall conform to
the regulations and provisions set by this chapter for the district in which
the land is located.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.7.1, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.297 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. Where, on the effective date of adoption or amendment of
this chapter, a lawful structure exists that could not be built under the
regulations of this chapter by reason of restrictions upon lot area, lot width,
lot coverage, height, open spaces, or other characteristics of the structure or
its location upon a lot, the structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful subject to the following provisions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No structure shall be enlarged, expanded, extended, or altered in a
way which increases its nonconformance.
      (2)   (a)   Should any structure be destroyed by any means to an extent
of more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   This division (B)(2) shall not apply to any structure used as a
dwelling unit in an office district (O-1), local commercial district (C-1),
general commercial district (C-2), or highway service commercial district (C-
3), and the structures may be reconstructed for use as dwelling units in these
zoning districts.
      (3)   Should any such structure be moved for any reason, of any distance,
it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is
located after it is moved.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.7.2, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.298 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. Where, on the date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, a lawful use of a structure exists that is no longer permissible under
the regulations of this chapter, the use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful subject to the following provisions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No nonconforming use of a structure shall be enlarged, expanded,
extended, or altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use
permitted in the district in which the structure is located.
      (2)   When a nonconforming use of a structure is discontinued or
abandoned for more than 180 consecutive days, the structure shall not
thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
      (3)   (a)   Any structure devoted in whole or in part to any
nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures,
wiring, or plumbing to an extent not to exceed 10% of the then current
replacement value of the structure, provided that the volume of the structure
or the number of families housed therein as it existed on the date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening of the part thereof declared to be unsafe by an official charged
with protecting the public safety upon order of the official.
      (4)   Should any structure containing a nonconforming use be moved, for
any reason, any distance, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
      (5)   (a)   Should any structure devoted in whole or in part to any
nonconforming use be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of
its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
and again be devoted to any use except in conformity with the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
         (b)   This division (B)(5) shall not apply to any structure used as a
dwelling unit in an office district (O-1), local commercial district (C-l),
general commercial district (C-2), or highway service commercial district (C-3)
and the structures may be reconstructed for use as dwelling units in these
zoning districts.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.7.3, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.299 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership, or management of an existing
nonconforming use, building, or structure; provided there is no change in the
nature or character of the nonconforming use, building, or structure.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.7.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.300 NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, not
withstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a single-
family dwelling may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, provided that yard dimensions
and other requirements, not involving area width, of the lot shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which the lot is located.
   (B)   Any variance of yard requirements from the above provisions shall be
obtained only through action of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.7.5, passed 9-12-2006)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 150.315 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No lot, building, or structure in any district shall be used in any
manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise
objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the surrounding
area or adjoining premises.
      (2)   Uses in all districts, where permitted, shall comply with the
following performance requirements, excepting those uses exempted by the
Michigan Right to Farm Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 et seq.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Noise.
         (a)   Noise which is objectionable due to volume, frequency, or beat
shall be muffled or otherwise controlled so that there is no production of
sound discernible at lot lines in excess of the average intensity of street and
traffic noise at the lot lines.
         (b)   Air raid sirens and related apparatus used solely for public
purposes are exempt from this requirement. (See §§
91.01 et seq.)
      (2)   Vibration. No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible
without instruments on any adjoining lot or property.
      (3)   Smoke. Smoke shall not be emitted with a density greater than No. 1
on the Ringleman Chart as issued by the U.S. Bureau of Mines except for blow-
off periods of 10 minutes duration of 1 per hour when a density of not more
than No. 2 is permitted.
      (4)   Odor. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
offensive or as to produce a public nuisance or hazard on any adjoining lot or
property.
      (5)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors, or
other substances shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals,
vegetation, or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling.
      (6)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property or from any public street, road, or highway.
      (7)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted
which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties, lakes,
ponds, rivers, or streams.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.8.1, passed 9-12-2006)
Penalty, see § 150.999
§ 150.316 PLANS.
   The application for a zoning compliance permit for a use subject to
performance requirements shall be accompanied by a description of the
machinery, process, and products; and specifications for the mechanisms and
techniques to be used in meeting the performance standards.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.8.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.317 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may refer the application to 1 or more expert
consultants qualified to advise as to whether a proposed use will conform to
the performance standards.
   (B)   The costs of the services shall be borne by the applicant, and a copy
of any report shall be furnished to the applicant and the Summit Township
Board.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.8.3, passed 9-12-2006)
PROCEDURES FOR EVALUATING DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS AND
DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.330 GENERALLY.
   See
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.20, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.331 PROCEDURE FOR SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF A DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL
APPLICATION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Projects requiring site plan review or a conditional use permit and
proposed planned development districts must undergo the following procedure.
      (2)   Development plans will be reviewed using the information provided
on them (as required by §
150.332) as well as the criteria established for the type of development plan
under consideration.
      (3)   (Please see §§
150.130 et seq. for planned development districts, §§
150.250 et seq. for conditional use permits, or §§
150.270 et seq. for site plan review).
   (B)   Pre-application meeting.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to formally applying, the applicant may request a
review of its preliminary development plan (developed to the requirements of §
150.332) at a meeting with the Township’s Public Works Director, Assessor,
Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector, Fire Chief, and any other inspectors
and officials as are desired by the township, to determine whether it meets all
of the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The applicant must submit a completed application form and
copies of the preliminary development plan at least 5 business days prior to
the meeting.
         (c)   The applicant may be represented at the meeting, and may bring
(if not previously provided) any other exhibits, plans, or documentation that
may help to establish that the proposal meets the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The pre-application reviewers shall review the preliminary plan and
its related documents, and shall present the following to the applicant:
         (a)   Provide any concerns they may have with the proposal;
         (b)   Indicate where more detail is needed on the proposal; and
         (c)   Supply a general consensus on the viability of the proposal.
   (C)   Review of preliminary development plans.
      (1)   (a)   Major projects (as defined by §
150.271) requiring site plan approval, conditional use permit requests, and
planned development district requests must undergo a formal review of the
preliminary plan (developed to the requirements of §
150.332).
         (b)   The purpose of the preliminary review is to confirm compliance
with township standards, policies, and relationship to the land use plan, as
well as to suggest changes necessary, if any, for the final plan approval.
      (2)   The Planning Commission is the reviewer of preliminary development
plan and its related documents. The Commission must render either a favorable
or unfavorable recommendation.
         (a)   A favorable recommendation shall include a report to the
applicant that he or she may proceed with initiation of the rezoning request.
It shall be based on the following findings which shall be included as part of
the recommendation:
            1.   The proposal conforms to the Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The proposal meets the intent, objectives, and general
requirements expressed in this chapter;
            3.   The proposal is conceptually sound in that it meets a
community need and conforms to accepted design principals in the proposed
functional roadway system, land use configuration, open space system, and
drainage system; and
            4.   There are adequate services and utilities available or
proposed to be made available in the construction of the development.
         (b)   1.   An unfavorable recommendation shall state clearly the
reasons therefor and, if appropriate, indicate to the applicant what might be
necessary in order to receive a favorable recommendation.
            2.   Within 10 days after receiving an unfavorable recommendation,
the applicant may, if he or she wishes, initiate a final development plan
review, which would be accompanied by an unfavorable recommendation from the
Township Planning Commission.
         (c)   1.   The Zoning Administrator shall certify when all of the
necessary application material has been presented, and the Zoning Administrator
shall submit its report to the applicant within 30 days of the certification.
            2.   If no report has been rendered after 30 days, the applicant
may proceed as if a favorable report was given.
   (D)   Review of final development plans. The Planning Commission and the
Township Board review final development plans.
      (1)   Planning Commission action. All final development plans shall be
considered within 60 days of placement on the first available Planning
Commission agenda. The Planning Commission shall review the final development
plan and its related documents, and shall render 1 of the following
recommendations to the Township Board.
         (a)   Approval. Upon finding that the application and final
development plan meet the criteria in the appropriate ordinance section, the
Planning Commission shall recommend approval:
            1.   Sections
150.130 et seq. for planned development districts;
            2.   Sections
150.253 and possibly
150.257 for conditional uses; and
            3.   Section
150.273 for site plan review.
         (b)   Approval with minor revisions. Upon finding the application and
final development plan meet the criteria in the appropriate ordinance section,
except for minor revisions, the Planning Commission may recommend approval
conditioned upon the revisions being made by the applicant and reviewed by
appropriate township staff and/or consultants.
         (c)   Tabling. Upon finding that the application and final development
plan do not, but could, meet the criteria in the appropriate ordinance section,
upon making the revisions, the Planning Commission may table its recommendation
for a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days, until the revised plan is
resubmitted to the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Denial. Upon finding that the application and final development
plan do not meet 1 or more of the criteria in the appropriate ordinance
section, and those revisions necessary to meet the criteria are so extensive as
to require the preparation of a new site plan, the Planning Commission shall
recommend denial.
      (2)   Township Board action.
         (a)   All final development plans shall be considered after action is
taken by the Planning Commission and within 60 days of placement on the first
available Township Board agenda. The Township Board shall review the final
development plan and its related documents, and shall render 1 of the following
decisions.
            1.   Approval. Upon finding that the application and final
development plan meet the criteria in the appropriate ordinance section, the
Township Board shall approve the site plan.
            2.   Approval with minor revisions. Upon finding that the
application and final development plan meet the criteria in the appropriate
ordinance section, except for minor revisions, the Township Board may approve
the final development plan conditioned upon the revisions being made by the
applicant and reviewed by appropriate township staff and/or consultants.
            3.   Tabling. Upon finding that the application and final
development plan do not, but could, meet the criteria in the appropriate
ordinance section, upon the making of revisions, the Township Board may table
action until the revised plan is re-submitted.
            4.   Denial. Upon finding that the application and final
development plan do not meet 1 or more of the criteria in the appropriate
ordinance section, and those revisions necessary to meet the criteria are so
extensive as to require the preparation of a new site plan, the Township Board
shall deny the site plan.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any language contained in division (D)(1) above,
no final development plan approval for a site condominium project shall be
final until the time as the applicant records a master deed for the project
with the Jackson County Register of Deeds office and a copy of the recorded
deed and a legible 24 inches x 36 inches map with the Township Assessing
Department.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.20.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.332 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A development plan submitted for review and approval shall contain
all of the following data prior to its submission to the township.
      (2)   Development plans shall consist of an overall plan for the entire
development drawn to a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 50 feet for
property less than 3 acres in size or 1 inch equals 200 feet for property 3 or
more acres in size.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit 3 copies of the overall plan for the
entire development on paper sized 24 inches x 36 inches.
      (4)   The applicant shall also submit 16 eleven-inch x 17-inch copies and
an electronic copy, in PDF format, of the development plan.
      (5)   Included on the development plan shall be all dimensions and the
following.
   (B)   Preliminary development plans. The preliminary development plan shall
clearly show the following information:
      (1)   Boundaries of the property;
      (2)   The location of the various uses and their areas in acres;
      (3)   The location and height of all buildings and parking facilities;
      (4)   The interior roadway system and all existing rights-of-way and
easements, whether public or private;
      (5)   Delineation of the various areas and approximate percentage
allocation by unit type;
      (6)   The interior open space system;
      (7)   The overall drainage system;
      (8)   If grades exceed 3%, or portions of the site have a moderate to
high susceptibility to erosion, or a moderate to high susceptibility to
flooding and ponding, a topographic map showing contour intervals of not more
than 2 feet of elevation shall be provided along with an overlay outlining the
above susceptible soil;
      (9)   Principal ties to the neighborhood and community with respect to
transportation, water supply and sewage disposal;
      (10)   General description of the provision of other community
facilities, such as schools, recreational facilities, fire protection services,
and cultural facilities, if any, and some indication of how these needs are
proposed to be accommodated;
      (11)   A location map showing uses and ownership of abutting lands;
      (12)   Evidence that the proposal is compatible with the objectives of
the official Comprehensive Plan;
      (13)   General statement as to how common open space is to be owned and
maintained; and
      (14)   If the development is to be staged, a general indication of how
the staging is to proceed. Whether or not the development is to be staged, the
preliminary development plan of this section shall show the intended total
project.
   (C)   Final development plans. The final development plan shall clearly show
the following information.
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   Proprietors’, applicants’, and owners’ names, addresses and
telephone numbers as well as a letter of authority from the owners if the
applicant is not owner;
         (b)   Date (month, day, year), including revisions;
         (c)   A stake survey of the property by a registered surveyor (if
required by the Zoning Administrator);
         (d)   A detailed drawing of the site together with adjacent structures
(if required by the Zoning Administrator);
         (e)   A detailed drawing setting forth the size, location, and type of
construction of any signs to be placed on the parcel (if required by the Zoning
Administrator);
         (f)   Location map drawn at a scale of 1 inch equals 2,000 feet with
north point indicated (if required by the Zoning Administrator);
         (g)   Architect, engineer, surveyor, landscape architect, or planner’s
seal;
         (h)   Existing lot lines, building lines, structures, parking areas,
and the like, on the parcel and within 100 feet of the site;
         (i)   Proposed lot lines, property lines and all structures, parking
areas, and the like, on the parcel and within 100 feet of the site;
         (j)   Centerline and existing proposed right-of-way lines of any
street;
         (k)   Zoning classification of petitioner’s parcel and all abutting
parcels;
         (l)   Gross acreage figure and percentage of parcel coverage;
         (m)   Proximity to major thoroughfares and section corners; and
         (n)   Pictures from all sides of the property.
      (2)   Physical features.
         (a)   Acceleration, deceleration, and passing lanes and approaches;
         (b)   Proposed locations of access drives, street intersections,
driveway locations, sidewalks, bike paths, curbing and areas for public use;
         (c)   Location of existing and proposed service facilities above and
below ground, including:
            1.   Well sites;
            2.   Septic systems and other waste water treatment systems. The
location of the septic tank and the drain field (soil absorption system) should
be clearly distinguished;
            3.   Chemical and fuel storage tanks and containers;
            4.   Storage, loading, and disposal areas for chemicals, hazardous
substances, salt and fuels;
            5.   Water mains, hydrants, pump houses, standpipes, and building
services and sizes;
            6.   Sanitary sewers and pumping stations;
            7.   Storm water control facilities and structures including storm
sewers, swales, retention and detention basins, drainage ways and other
facilities, including calculations for sizes;
            8.   Location of all easements; and
            9.   All structures with dimensioned floor plans, setback and yard
dimensions, and typical elevation views.
         (d)   Parking space calculations and dimensions, drives, and the
proposed method of surfacing;
         (e)   Exterior lighting locations and illumination patterns;
         (f)   Location and description of all existing and proposed
landscaping berms, fencing, and walls;
         (g)   Trash receptacle pad location and method of screening;
         (h)   Transformer pad location and method of screening;
         (i)   Dedicated road/street or service drive locations;
         (j)   Entrance details including sign locations and size;
         (k)   Designation of fire lanes;
         (l)   A report from the Jackson County Road Commission as to the
traffic capacity of the public roads/streets adjacent to the site together with
a statement from the Road Commission indicating current traffic volume on the
road/street; and
         (m)   Any other pertinent physical features. (Please note that
proposed public road rights-of-way shall meet Jackson County Commission
standards and public road construction shall equal Road Commission
specifications. Private roads/streets shall comply with §§
90.01 et seq.
      (3)   Natural features.
         (a)   1.   On parcels of more than 1 acre, existing topography with a
maximum contour interval of 2 feet.
            2.   Topography on the site and beyond the site for a distance of
100 feet in all directions should be indicated.
            3.   Grading plan, showing finished contours at a maximum interval
of 2 feet correlated with existing contours so as to clearly indicate required
cutting, filling, and grading.
         (b)   Location of existing drainage courses and associated bodies of
water, on- and off-site, and their elevations;
         (c)   Location of existing wetlands;
         (d)   Location of natural resource features, including woodlands and
areas with slopes greater than 10%; 1 foot of vertical elevation for every 10
feet of horizontal distance;
         (e)   A wetlands permit from the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality if one is required by the state;
         (f)   A storm water management system and facility approved by the
Jackson County Drain Commissioner that will not substantially reduce or
increase the natural retention or storage capacity of any water body, or cause
alterations that could increase flooding or water pollution on or off the site;
and
         (g)   The owner shall present the plan and be accompanied by an
engineer, architect, or contractor to fully explain the plan unless the
requirement for one of the professionals is waived by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Additional requirements.
         (a)   Multiple-family developments.
            1.   Density calculations by type of unit by bedroom counts;
            2.   Designation of units by type and number of units in each
building;
            3.   Carport locations and details where proposed;
            4.   Specific amount and location of recreation spaces;
            5.   Type of recreation facilities to be provided in recreation
space; and
            6.   Details of community building and fencing of swimming pool if
proposed.
         (b)   Commercial and industrial developments.
            1.   Presentation of the site plan must be by an owner with an
architect, engineer, or contractor present unless waived by Zoning
Administrator;
            2.   Loading and unloading areas;
            3.   Total and usable floor area; and
            4.   Number of employees in peak usage.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.20.2, passed 9-12-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.345 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide the procedures for the
administration of this chapter, issuance of permits, inspection of properties,
collection of fees, handling of violators, and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and amendments thereto.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.346 ADMINISTRATION; GENERALLY.
   Except when herein otherwise stated, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered by the Zoning Administrator or by the deputies of his or her
department as the Township Board may designate to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.347 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant zoning
compliance permits and certificates of occupancy and to make inspections of
buildings or premises necessary to carry out his or her duties in the
enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator to approve plans
or issue any permits or certificates of occupancy for any excavation or
construction until he or she has inspected the plans in detail and found them
to conform to this chapter, nor shall the Zoning Administrator vary or change
any terms of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in
writing, the person responsible for the violation, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.
      (2)   He or she shall order discontinuance of illegal use of any lot or
structures; removal of illegal structures, or of illegal additions,
alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator, as may be required, shall submit to
the Planning Commission and the Township Board report(s) explaining the type
and nature of uses permitted by right; the nature and extent of violations of
this chapter; and the type and nature of nonconforming uses, building, and
structures.
      (2)   The Building Department shall maintain a record of all zoning
compliance permits and certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.348 PUBLIC NOTICING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Public notification. All applications for development approval
requiring a public hearing shall comply with the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., and the
other provisions of this division (A) with regard to public notification.
      (1)   Responsibility. When the provisions of this chapter or the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act require that notice be published, the Zoning Administrator
shall be responsible for preparing the content of the notice, having it
published in a newspaper of general circulation in Summit Township and mailed
or delivered as provided in this division (A).
      (2)   Content. All mail, personal and newspaper notices for public
hearings shall:
         (a)   Nature of the request. Identify whether the request is for a
rezoning, text amendment, conditional use permit, planned development,
variance, appeal, ordinance interpretation, or other purpose;
         (b)   Location.
            1.   Indicate the property that is the subject of the request.
            2.   The notice shall include a listing of all existing street
addresses within the subject property.
            3.   Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if no
such addresses currently exist within the property.
            4.   If there are no street addresses, other means of
identification may be used such as a tax identification number, identifying the
nearest cross street, or including a map showing the location of the property.
            5.   No street addresses must be listed when 11 or more adjacent
properties are proposed for rezoning, or when the request is for an ordinance
interpretation not involving a specific property.
         (c)   When and where. Indicate the date, time, and place of the public
hearings at which the request will be considered;
         (d)   Written comments. Include a statement describing when and where
written comments will be received concerning the request. Include a statement
that the public may appear at the public hearing in person or by counsel; and
         (e)   Handicap access. Provide information concerning how handicap
access will be accommodated if the meeting facility is not handicap accessible.
      (3)   Personal and mailed notice.
         (a)   Generally. When the provisions of this chapter or state law
require that personal or mailed notice be provided, notice shall be provided
to:
            1.   The owners of property for which approval is being considered,
and the applicant, if different than the owner(s) of the property;
            2.   All occupants of and persons to whom real property is assessed
within 300 feet of the boundary of the property subject to the request,
regardless of whether the property or occupant is located within the boundaries
of Summit Township, except for rezoning requests involving 11 or more adjacent
properties or an ordinance interpretation request that does not involve a
specific property. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term
“occupant” may be used in making notification. Notification need not be given
to more than 1 occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains
more than 1 dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different
individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations, 1 occupant of each
unit or spatial area shall receive notice. In the case of a single structure
containing more than 4 dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or
leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations,
notice may be given to the manager or owner of the structure whom shall be
requested to post the notice at the primary entrance to the structure;
            3.   All neighborhood organizations, public utility companies,
railroads and other persons which have requested to receive notice pursuant to
division (B) below; and
            4.   Other governmental units or infrastructure agencies within 1
mile of the property involved in the application.
         (b)   Notice by mail/affidavit. Notice shall be deemed mailed by its
deposit in the United States mail, first class, property addressed, postage
paid. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list of property owners and
registrants to whom notice was mailed, as well as of anyone to whom personal
notice was delivered.
      (4)   Timing of notice.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided in the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., or this
chapter where applicable, notice of public hearing shall be provided not less
than 15 days before the date the application will be considered for approval
for a public hearing on an application for a rezoning, text amendment,
conditional use, planned unit development, variance, appeal, or ordinance
interpretation.
         (b)   This means it must be published in a newspaper of general
circulation and for those receiving personal notice, received by mail or
personal notice, not less than 15 days before the hearing.
   (B)   Registration to receive notice by mail.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Any neighborhood organization, public utility company, railroad,
or any other person may register with Zoning Administrator to receive written
notice of all applications for development approval pursuant to division (A)(3)
(a)3. above, or written notice of all applications for development approval
within the zoning district in which they are located.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing this
notification.
         (c)   Fees may be assessed for provision of this notice, as
established by the legislative body.
      (2)   Requirements.
         (a)   The requesting party must provide the Zoning Administrator
information on an official form to ensure notification can be made.
         (b)   All registered persons must register bi-annually to continue to
receive notification pursuant to this division (B).
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.349 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of zoning compliance permits.
      (1)   (a)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be
located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, or enlarged
or moved; nor shall any change be made in the use of any building, structure,
or land without a zoning compliance permit having been obtained from the Zoning
Administrator for the building, structure, or land.
         (b)   A zoning compliance application shall be filled out and
submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall require that all applications for
zoning compliance permits shall be accompanied by plans and specifications
including a plot plan in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the following
information as incorporated in the township building permit application:
         (a)   The actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   The exact size and location of existing structures on the lot,
if any; and
         (c)   The location and dimensions of the proposed structure or
alteration.
      (3)   (a)   A copy of the issued building permit shall be proof of
approval or disapproved, and attested to same by the Zoning Administrator’s
signature on the building permit application.
         (b)   The approved minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals, Planning
Commission, or Township Board shall be the compliance permit.
   (B)   Voiding of zoning compliance permit.
      (1)   Any zoning compliance permit granted under this chapter shall
become null and void and fees forfeited unless construction and/or use
completed within 545 days of the date of issuance.
      (2)   A zoning compliance permit shall be renewable upon reapplication
and upon payment of the fee, subject, however, to the provisions of all
ordinances in effect at the time of renewal.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.5, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.350 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   (a)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be occupied
by or for any use for which a zoning compliance permit is required by this
chapter unless and until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued for
the use.
         (b)   The holder of a zoning compliance permit for the construction,
erection, or moving of any building, structure or part thereof, for the
establishment of a use, shall make application to the Zoning Administrator
immediately upon the completion of the work authorized by the zoning compliance
permit for a final inspection.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Township’s
Building Department, in concurrence with the Zoning Administrator, within 5
days after receipt of the application if it is found that the building or
structure, or part thereof, is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Voiding of certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Any certificate of occupancy granted under this chapter shall
become null and void if the use, buildings, or structure for which the
certificate was issued are found by the Zoning Administrator to be in violation
of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator upon finding the violation shall
immediately notify the Township Board of the violation and void the certificate
of occupancy.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.6, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.351 FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Township Board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses, and a collection procedure for zoning compliance permits,
certificates of occupancy, appeals and other matters pertaining to this
chapter.
   (B)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Zoning
Administrator, and may be altered or amended only by the Township Board.
   (C)   No permit, certificate, conditional use approval, or variance shall be
issued unless or until the costs, charges, fees, or expenses listed in this
chapter have been paid in full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings
before the Board of Appeals, unless or until preliminary charges and fees have
been paid in full.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.7, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.352 VIOLATIONS; NUISANCE PER SE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall serve a notice of violation or order
the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension,
repair, use, or occupancy of a structure or lot in violation of this chapter,
or in violation of a certificate of zoning compliance issued hereunder.
      (2)   The order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or
condition, and abatement of the violation.
   (B)   Stop-work order.
      (1)   Upon notice from the Zoning Administrator that work on any
structure or premises is being performed contrary to other provisions of this
chapter, the work shall be immediately stopped.
      (2)   The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing
the work; and shall state the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
      (3)   Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure or
premises after having been served with a stop-work order, except the work as
the person is directed by the Zoning Administrator to perform in order to
remove violations or unsafe conditions, shall be liable for the penalties set
forth in division (C) below.
   (C)   Nuisance per se.
      (1)   Any structure which is erected, altered, or converted, or any use
of any structure or lot which is commenced or changes after the effective date
of this chapter, in violation of any of the provisions herein, is declared to
be a nuisance per se, and may be abated by order of any court of competent
jurisdiction providing further, that any use of land or dwellings, buildings,
or structures, including tents and trailer coaches, used, erected, altered,
razed, or converted in violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se.
      (2)   The court shall order the nuisance abated and the owners and/or
agent in charge of the dwelling, structure; tent, trailer coach or land shall
be adjudged guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
(Ord. -, Article VI, § 6.8, passed 9-12-2006)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 150.365 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Generally. There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals,
which shall perform its duties and exercise its powers as provided in the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., in such a way that the objectives of this chapter
shall be observed, the public health and safety secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (B)   Regular members.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall be composed of 7 regular members
appointed by the Township Board.
      (2)   A member of the Township Board and a member of the Planning
Commission shall also serve as regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals,
although the Township Board member cannot serve as the Chair of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      (3)   The Township Board will appoint the remaining regular members from
the electors of Summit Township.
      (4)   A vacancy on the Zoning Board of Appeals must be filled within 1
month of the resignation or removal of a member of the Board.
   (C)   Alternate members.
      (1)   The Township Board may also appoint 2 alternate members to the
Zoning Board of Appeals from the electors of Summit Township.
      (2)   An alternate member may be called as specified to serve as a member
of the Zoning Board of Appeals if a regular member is unable to attend 1 or
more meetings or must abstain for reasons of a conflict of interest.
      (3)   The alternate member must serve on the case until it is decided.
(Ord. -, Article VII, § 7.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.366 DUTIES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide only the matters as
the Zoning Board of Appeals is specifically authorized to pass on as provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have the power to alter or
change the zoning districts classification of any property (i.e., use
variances); nor to make any changes in the terms of this chapter; but does have
the power to authorize a nonuse (i.e., dimensional) variance as defined in this
chapter, to act on those matters where this chapter may require an
interpretation, and to issue a temporary use permit when authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. -, Article VII, § 7.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.367 VARIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize, upon an appeal, a
variance from the strict applications of the provisions of this chapter where
by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape, or contour of a
specific tract of land at the time of enactment of this chapter or by reason of
exceptional conditions of the property, the strict application of the
regulations enacted would result in peculiar or exceptional practical
difficulties to the owner of the property.
      (2)   Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, the Board of Appeals
in passing upon appeals may vary or modify any of its rules or provisions so
that the spirit of the ordinance is observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done.
      (3)   The Board of Appeals may impose conditions with an affirmative
decision pursuant to § 604(7) of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended,
Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3604(7).
      (4)   No variance shall be granted to permit the establishment within a
district of any use which is excluded or for which a conditional use permit is
required.
      (5)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings
in the same district, and no permitted use of lands, structures, or buildings
in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   (B)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted, demonstrating
that the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of
the applicant, and 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant; and/or
         (d)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine that the requirements
of this chapter have been met by the applicant for a variance;
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine, by consideration of
competent material, and substantial evidence, set forth in the application and
on the record as a whole, and the granting of the variance is justified, and
the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use
of the land, building, or structure;
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine that the granting of
the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare;
      (5)   In granting any variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter;
      (6)   Each variance granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
become null and void unless:
         (a)   The construction authorized by the variance or permit has been
commenced within 180 days after the granting of the variance and pursued
diligently to completion; or
         (b)   The occupancy of land or buildings authorized by the variance
has taken place within 180 days after the granting of the variance.
      (7)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in
part by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be resubmitted for a period of 365
days from the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of changed
conditions found by the Zoning Board of Appeals to be valid;
      (8)   An application for a variance shall be filed at the township office
by the record owner of the property in question or by a person(s) authorized to
act on the record owner’s behalf. The application shall consist of a completed
application form, fee, and the information required. The township shall
transmit copies of the application and information to the Zoning Administrator
within 7 days of the filing date. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit a
copy of the application to each member of the Zoning Board of Appeals no less
than 7 days prior to the hearing set in the matter;
      (9)   The following information shall be required:
         (a)   The applicant’s name, address, and telephone number;
         (b)   The names and addresses of all known owners of record and known
owners and proof of ownership;
         (c)   The applicant’s interest in the property, and if the applicant
is not the fee simple owner, the owner’s signed authorization for the
application;
         (d)   Recorded legal description, address, and tax parcel number of
the property;
         (e)   An accurate, scaled drawing of the property, showing all
property lines, dimensions, and bearings or angles correlated with the legal
description; all existing and proposed structures and uses on the property; and
dimensions of structures and their dimensioned locations; lot area and all
calculations necessary to show compliance and/or noncompliance with the
regulations of this chapter. A drawing prepared by a registered surveyor or
registered engineer and the staking of the property are not required unless
deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator to determine the lot lines or to
accurately describe the nature of the variance being requested by the
applicant; and
         (f)   A detailed description of the proposed use. The proposed
variance shall be physically marked on the site so that the Board of Appeals
may make an on-site review of the proposed variance.
      (10)   The fee shall be paid to the township at the time of filing and
shall be deposited in the township’s general fund.
(Ord. -, Article VII, § 7.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.368 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the applicant there is an error in any order, requirement, permit,
decision, or refusal made by the Zoning Administrator or any other
administrative official in carrying out or enforcing any provisions of this
chapter including interpretations of the Zoning Map.
(Ord. -, Article VII, § 7.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.369 APPEALS TO THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals; how taken.
      (1)   All questions concerning administrative decisions under this
chapter shall first be presented to the applicable township official or agency.
      (2)   The questions shall be presented to the Zoning Board of Appeals
only on appeal from the decision of the applicable township official or agency.
      (3)   Appeals may be taken from any administrative zoning decision,
except conditional uses and planned developments, expansions of nonconforming
buildings and structures, but including questions concerning the interpretation
of any provision of this chapter, decisions regarding certificates of zoning
compliance, and decisions concerning the validity of a purported grandfathered
use.
      (4)   Appeals shall be filed within 60 days of the decision in question
at the township office.
      (5)   The Clerk shall transmit a copy of the appeal and relate the
information to the Zoning Administrator within 7 days of the filing date.
      (6)   The Appellant shall submit a clear description of the order,
requirement, decision, or determination from which the appeal is made and the
grounds of the appeal.
      (7)   The appellant may be required to submit additional information to
clarify the appeal.
      (8)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to the Board of Appeals
copies of all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken 7 days prior to the next Zoning Board of Appeals meeting.
   (B)   Who may appeal. Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be taken by
any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, agency, or bureau of
the township, village, city, county, or state.
   (C)   Fee for appeal. A fee prescribed by the Township Board shall be paid
to the Zoning Board of Appeals at the time of filing the notice of appeal which
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall pay over, within 30 days after deciding any
appeal, to the General Fund of the Township Board.
   (D)   Effect of appeal; restraining order. An appeal stays all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed unless the officer from whom the appeal
is taken certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal
shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by the
circuit court, on application, of notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown.
   (E)   Notice of hearing. When a request for an appeal has been filed in
proper form with the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Zoning Administrator or
Summit Township Clerk shall immediately place the request for appeal upon the
calendar for hearing, which shall be at least 30 days prior to the next meeting
as determined by the annually published hearing dates, and in accordance with §
150.348.
   (F)   Representation of hearing. Upon the hearing, any party or parties may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (G)   Decisions of the Board of Appeals and appeals to the circuit court.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall decide upon all matters within a reasonable
time and may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and shall make the order,
requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to be made in
the premises and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator or Township Board from whom the appeal is taken. The Zoning Board
of Appeals’ decision of the appeals shall be in the form of a resolution, shall
be committed, albeit effective upon passage and shall contain a full record of
the findings and determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals in each
particular case. Any person or party aggrieved by the resolution shall have the
right to appeal to the circuit court within 30 days of the decision or question
of law and fact.
(Ord. -, Article VII, § 7.5, passed 9-12-2006)
AMENDMENT PROCEDURES
§ 150.380 INITIATING AMENDMENTS AND FEE.
   The Township Board may, from time to time, on recommendation from the
Planning Commission on its own motion amend, modify, supplement, or revise the
district boundaries or the provisions and regulations herein established
whenever the public necessity and convenience and the general welfare require
the amendment. The amendment may be initiated by resolution of the Township
Board, the Planning Commission or by petition of 1 or more owners of property
to be affected by the proposed amendment. Except for the Township Board or the
Planning Commission, the petitioner requesting an amendment shall at the time
of application pay the fee established by resolution of the Township Board, no
part of which shall be returnable to the petitioner.
(Ord. -, Article VIII, § 8.1, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.381 AMENDMENT PROCEDURES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Generally. Amendments or supplements to this chapter shall be made in
the manner described in the following divisions.
   (B)   Public hearing and notice. Before submitting its recommendations for a
proposed zoning ordinance amendment to the Township Board, the Planning
Commission shall hold at least 1 public hearing. Notice of the time and place
of the public hearing shall be given in the same manner as required under §
150.348 for any rezonings or text amendments.
   (C)   Criteria for considering rezoning requests. In reviewing an
application for the rezoning of land, factors that should be considered by the
Planning Commission and the Township Board include, but are not limited to, the
following.
      (1)   Is the proposed rezoning consistent with the policies and uses
proposed for that area in the Township’s Master Land Use Plan?
      (2)   Will all of the uses allowed under the proposed rezoning be
compatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding area?
      (3)   Will any public services and facilities be significantly adversely
impacted by a development or use allowed under the requested rezoning?
      (4)   Will the uses allowed under the proposed rezoning be equally or
better suited to the area than uses allowed under the current zoning of the
land?
(Ord. -, Article VIII, § 8.2, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.382 CONDITIONAL REZONINGS.
   (A)   Intent. It is recognized that there are certain instances where it
would be in the best interests of the township, as well as advantageous to
property owners seeking a change in zoning boundaries, if certain conditions
could be proposed by property owners as part of a request for a rezoning. It is
the intent of this section to provide a process consistent with the provisions
of § 405 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110 of
2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3405, by which an owner seeking a rezoning may
voluntarily propose conditions regarding the use and/or development of land as
part of the rezoning request.
   (B)   Application and offer of conditions.
      (1)   An owner of land may voluntarily offer in writing conditions
relating to the use and/or development of land for which a rezoning is
requested. This offer may be made either at the time the application for
rezoning is filed or may be made at a later time during the rezoning process.
      (2)   The required application and process for considering a rezoning
request with conditions shall be the same as that for considering rezoning
requests made without any offer of conditions, except as modified by the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   The owner’s offer of conditions may not purport to authorize uses
or developments not permitted in the requested new zoning district.
      (4)   The owner’s offer of conditions shall bear a reasonable and
rational relationship to the property for which rezoning is requested.
      (5)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions
that would require a special land use permit under the terms of this chapter
may only be commenced if a special land use permit for the use or development
is ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions
that would require a variance under the terms of this chapter may only be
commenced if a variance for the use or development is ultimately granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions
that would require site plan approval under the terms of this chapter may only
be commenced if site plan approval for the use or development is ultimately
granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (8)   The offer of conditions may be amended during the process of
rezoning consideration, provided that any amended or additional conditions are
entered voluntarily by the owner. An owner may withdraw all or part of its
offer of conditions any time prior to final rezoning action of the Township
Board, provided that, if the withdrawal occurs subsequent to the Planning
Commission’s public hearing on the original rezoning request, then the rezoning
application shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a new public
hearing with appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
   (C)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission, after public
hearing and consideration of the factors for rezoning set forth in §
150.381, may recommend approval, approval with recommended changes, or denial
of the rezoning; provided, however, that any recommended changes to the offer
of conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner.
   (D)   Township Board review. After receipt of the Planning Commission’s
recommendation, the Township Board shall deliberate upon the requested rezoning
and may approve or deny the conditional rezoning request. The Township Board’s
deliberations shall include, but not be limited to, a consideration of the
factors for rezoning set forth in §
150.381. Should the Township Board consider amendments to the proposed
conditional rezoning advisable and if the contemplated amendments to the offer
of conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner, then the
Township Board shall, in accordance with § 308 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act, as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3308, refer the
amendments to the Planning Commission for a report thereon within a time
specified by the Township Board and proceed thereafter in accordance with the
statute to deny or approve the conditional rezoning with or without amendments.
   (E)   Approval.
      (1)   If the Township Board finds the rezoning request and offer of
conditions acceptable, the offered conditions shall be incorporated into a
formal written statement of conditions acceptable to the owner and conforming
in form to the provisions of this section. The statement of conditions shall be
incorporated by attachment or otherwise as an inseparable part of the ordinance
adopted by the Township Board to accomplish the requested rezoning.
      (2)   The statement of conditions shall:
         (a)   Be in a form recordable with the Register of Deeds of the county
in which the subject land is located or, in the alternative, be accompanied by
a recordable affidavit or memorandum prepared and signed by the owner giving
notice of the statement of conditions in a manner acceptable to the Township
Board;
         (b)   Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains;
         (c)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of
conditions runs with the land and is binding upon successor owners of the land;
         (d)   Incorporate by attachment or reference any diagram, plans, or
other documents submitted or approved by the owner that are necessary to
illustrate the implementation of the statement of conditions. If any such
documents are incorporated by reference, the reference shall specify where the
document may be examined;
         (e)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of
conditions or an affidavit or memorandum giving notice thereof may be recorded
by the township with the Register of Deeds of the county in which the land
referenced in the statement of conditions is located; and
         (f)   Contain the notarized signatures of all of the owners of the
subject land preceded by a statement attesting to the fact that they
voluntarily offer and consent to the provisions contained within the statement
of conditions.
      (3)   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the Zoning Map shall be amended to
reflect the new zoning classification along with a designation that the land
was rezoned with a statement of conditions. The Township Clerk shall maintain a
listing of all lands rezoned with a statement of conditions.
      (4)   The approved statement of conditions or an affidavit or memorandum
giving notice thereof shall be filed by the township with the Register of Deeds
of the County in which the land is located. The Township Board shall have
authority to waive this requirement if it determines that, given the nature of
the conditions and/or the time frame within which the conditions are to be
satisfied, the recording of such a document would be of no material benefit to
the township or to any subsequent owner of the land.
      (5)   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the use of the land so rezoned
shall conform thereafter to all of the requirements regulating use and
development within the new zoning district as modified by any more restrictive
provisions contained in the statement of conditions.
   (F)   Compliance with conditions.
      (1)   Any person who establishes a development or commences a use upon
land that has been rezoned with conditions shall continuously operate and
maintain the development or use in compliance with all of the conditions set
forth in the statement of conditions. Any failure to comply with a condition
contained within the statement of conditions shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and be actionable accordingly. Additionally, any such violation
shall be deemed a nuisance per se and subject to judicial abatement as provided
by law.
      (2)   No permit or approval shall be granted under this chapter for any
use or development that is contrary to an applicable statement of conditions.
   (G)   Performance bond requirement. Before a building permit is issued, the
applicant shall furnish a performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or a
cash bond deposited with the township. The amount and terms of the performance
bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or cash bond shall be established and
approved by the Township Board or its designee. The purpose of the requirements
set forth in this division (G) is to permit the property to be restored to its
original state in the event of a default on the part of the applicant in
completing the project according to the terms of the site plan, the contract
agreement, and this chapter. The requirements set forth in this division (G)
shall become effective upon the issuance of a building permit with respect to
each and every one of the development phases which are part of an approved site
plan, or amended site plan. The requirements will not extend beyond a period of
5 years from the date on which a site plan, or amended site plan, is approved
by the Township Board. The requirements set forth herein shall cease and
terminate upon the first of the following to occur:
      (1)   The expiration of the 5-year period mentioned above; or
      (2)   Upon a final-occupancy permit having been signed and issued by all
departments required to sign the permit with respect to each and every phase of
the development.
   (H)   Time period for establishing development or use. Unless another time
period is specified in this chapter rezoning the subject land, the approved
development and/or use of the land pursuant to building and other required
permits must be commenced upon the land within 18 months after the rezoning
took effect and thereafter proceed diligently to completion. This time
limitation may upon written request be extended by the Township Board if:
      (1)   It is demonstrated to the Township Board’s reasonable satisfaction
that there is a strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence
within the period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion;
and
      (2)   The Township Board finds that there has not been a change in
circumstances that would render the current zoning with statement of conditions
incompatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding area or otherwise
inconsistent with sound zoning policy.
   (I)   Reversion of zoning. If the approved development and/or use of the
rezoned land does not occur within the time frame specified under division (H)
above, then the land shall revert to its former zoning classification as set
forth in § 405 of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110
of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3405. The reversion process shall be initiated by
the Township Board requesting that the Planning Commission proceed with
consideration of rezoning of the land to its former zoning classification. The
procedure for considering and making this reversionary rezoning shall
thereafter be the same as applies to all other rezoning requests.
   (J)   Subsequent rezoning of land. When land that is rezoned with a
statement of conditions is thereafter rezoned to a different zoning
classification or to the same zoning classification but with a different or no
statement of conditions, whether as a result of a reversion of zoning pursuant
to division (I) above or otherwise, the statement of conditions imposed under
the former zoning classification shall cease to be in effect. Upon the owner’s
written request, the Township Clerk shall record with the Register of Deeds of
the county in which the land is located a notice that the statement of
conditions is no longer in effect.
   (K)   Amendment of conditions.
      (1)   During the time period for commencement of an approved development
or use specified pursuant to division (H) above or during any extension thereof
granted by the Township Board, the township shall not add to or alter the
conditions in the statement of conditions.
      (2)   The statement of conditions may be amended thereafter in the same
manner as was prescribed for the original rezoning and statement of conditions.
   (L)   Township right to rezone. Nothing in the statement of conditions nor
in the provisions of this section shall be deemed to prohibit the township from
rezoning all or any portion of land that is subject to a statement of
conditions to another zoning classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in
compliance with this chapter and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended,
Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
   (M)   Failure to offer conditions. The township shall not require an owner
to offer conditions as a requirement for rezoning. The lack of an offer of
conditions shall not affect an owner’s rights under this chapter.
(Ord. -, Article VIII, § 8.3, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.383 CONFORMANCE TO COURT DECREE.
   An amendment for the purpose of conforming a provision of this chapter to
the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction as to any specific lands may be
adopted by the Township Board and the notice of the adopted amendment published
without referring the amendment to any other board or agency provided for under
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, as amended, Public Act 110 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
(Ord. -, Article VIII, § 8.4, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 150.384 RE-APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   No petition to amend this chapter or effect a zoning change shall be
considered by the Planning Commission on a property for a period of 365 days
from an earlier final action by the Township Board, except in a case where
significant new evidence or proof of substantially changed conditions is found
to exist by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. -, Article VIII, § 8.5, passed 9-12-2006)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 150.395 SCOPE, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the
Township Board under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801, et seq., and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act
110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101, et seq., to establish a Planning Commission
with the powers, duties and limitations provided by those Acts and subject to
the terms and conditions of this subchapter and any future amendments to this
subchapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide that the Township Board
shall hereby confirm the establishment under the Michigan Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801, et seq., of the Township
Planning Commission formerly established under the Township Planning Act,
Public Act 168 of 1959, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321, et seq., to establish the
appointments, terms, and membership of the Planning Commission; to identify the
officers and the minimum number of meetings per year of the Planning
Commission; and to prescribe the authority, powers and duties of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.396 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Township Board hereby confirms the establishment under the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801, et seq., of
the Township Planning Commission formerly established under the Township
Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321, et seq., The
Township Planning Commission shall have 9 members. Members of the Township
Planning Commission as of the effective date of this subchapter shall, except
for an ex officio member whose remaining term on the Planning Commission shall
be limited to his or her term on the Township Board, continue to serve for the
remainder of their existing terms so long as they continue to meet all of the
eligibility requirements for Planning Commission membership set forth within
the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801, et seq.
(Ord 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.397 APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Township Supervisor, with the approval of the Township Board by a
majority vote of the members elected and serving, shall appoint all Planning
Commission members, including the ex officio member.
   (B)   The Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio member,
shall serve for terms of 3 years each.
   (C)   A Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment.
   (D)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
township, except that 1 Planning Commission member may be an individual who is
not a qualified elector of the township. The membership of the Planning
Commission shall be representative of important segments of the community, such
as the economic, governmental, educational, and social development of the
township, in accordance with the major interests as they exist in the township,
such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry, and commerce. The membership shall also
be representative of the entire geography of the township to the extent
practicable.
   (E)   One member of the Township Board shall be appointed to the Planning
Commission as an ex officio member.
   (F)   An ex officio member has full voting rights. An ex officio member's
term on the Planning Commission shall expire with his or her term on the
Township Board.
   (G)   No other elected officer or employee of the township is eligible to be
a member of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.398 REMOVAL.
   The Township Board may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.399 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a Planning Commission
member may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member
shall disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission.
Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as required by
this subchapter constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, CONFLICT OF INTEREST is defined as,
and a Planning Commission member shall declare a conflict of interest and
abstain from participating in Planning Commission deliberations and voting on a
request, when:
      (1)   An immediate family member is involved in any request for which the
Planning Commission is asked to make a decision. "Immediate family member" is
defined as an individual's father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, and
spouse and a relative of any degree residing in the same household as that
individual.
      (2)   The Planning Commission member has a business or financial interest
in the property involved in the request or has a business or financial interest
in the applicant's company, agency or association.
      (3)   The Planning Commission member owns or has a financial interest in
neighboring property. For the purposes of this section, a neighboring property
shall include any property immediately adjoining the property involved in the
request.
      (4)   There is a reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest, as
determined by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.400 COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members may be compensated for their services as
provided by Township Board resolution. The Planning Commission may adopt bylaws
relative to compensation and expenses of its members for travel when engaged in
the performance of activities authorized by the Township Board, including, but
not limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops, educational and training
programs and meetings.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.401 OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson and a secretary from
its members, and may create and fill other offices as it considers advisable.
An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as
chairperson. The term of each office shall be 1 year, with opportunity for
reelection as specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may also appoint advisory committees whose
members are not members of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.402 BYLAWS, MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least 4 regular meetings each
year, and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the meetings.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission's bylaws, a
special meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the chairperson or
by 2 other members, upon written request to the secretary. Unless the bylaws
otherwise provide, the secretary shall send written notice of a special meeting
to Planning Commission members at least 48 hours before the meeting.
   (D)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261, et seq.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings, and determinations. A writing prepared, owned, used, in
the possession of, or retained by a Planning Commission in the performance of
an official function shall be made available to the public in compliance with
the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231, et
seq.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.403 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the Township
Board concerning its operations and the status of the planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the Township Board related to
planning and development.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.404 AUTHORITY TO MAKE MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Under the authority of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act
33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801, et seq., and other applicable planning
statutes, the Planning Commission shall make a master plan as a guide for
development within the township's planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Planning Commission unless the Township Board passes a
resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the master plan.
   (C)   Unless rescinded by the township, any plan adopted or amended under
the Township Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321, et
seq., need not be readopted under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public
Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801, et seq.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.405 ZONING POWERS.
   (A)   The Township Board hereby confirms the transfer of all powers, duties,
and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning commissions by the
former Township Zoning Act, Public Act 184 of 1943, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271, et
seq.; the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101, et seq.; or other applicable zoning statutes to the Township Planning
Commission formerly established under the Township Planning Act, Public Act 168
of 1959, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321, et seq.
   (B)   Any existing zoning ordinance shall remain in full force and effect
except as otherwise amended or repealed by the Township Board.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.406 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.
   To further the desirable future development of the township under the master
plan, the Township Board, after the master plan is adopted, shall prepare or
cause to be prepared by the Township Supervisor or by a designated nonelected
administrative official, a capital improvements program of public structures
and improvements, showing those structures and improvements in general order of
their priority, for the following 6-year period. The prepared master plan, if
prepared by someone other than the Township Board, shall be subject to final
approval by the Township Board. The Planning Commission is hereby exempted from
preparing a capital improvements plan.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.407 SUBDIVISION AND LAND DIVISION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Township Board provisions
of an ordinance or rules governing the subdivision of land. Before recommending
such an ordinance or rule, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed ordinance or rule. The Planning Commission shall give notice of
the time and place of the public hearing not less than 15 days before the
hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
township.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Township Board under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101, et seq. Before
making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall contain
the name and address of the proprietor or other person to whom notice of a
hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing,
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be sent to that person
at that address by mail and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the township. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed platted land.
(Ord. 121.00, passed 1-13-2009)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or shall
fail to comply with any of its requirements, or who erect, construct, alter, or
repair a structure in violation of an approved plan or directive of the Zoning
Administrator, or of a certificate or permit issued under this chapter, shall
be guilty of a civil infraction, which is detailed in Chapter 30. Each day a
violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. The imposition of any
sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. A person found to be in violation shall also be subject to such
additional sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized under state law. The
term PERSON shall be deemed to include partnerships, limited liability
companies, corporations, and other legal entities.
   (B)   Penalties and consequences for violation of §
150.180(C). In addition to any other penalties or legal consequences provided
under applicable federal, state and local law, regulations, codes and
ordinances:
      (1)   Violations of the provisions of §
150.180(C) or failure to comply with any of the requirements of §
150.180(C) may be subject to and found responsible for a municipal civil
infraction. The forfeiture for any municipal civil infraction shall be $500
plus court costs, attorney fees and abatement costs of each violation, together
with all other remedies pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 600.8701, et seq. Each day a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate municipal civil infraction.
      (2)   The owner of record or tenant of any building, structure or
premises, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or
person who commits, participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may
each be found guilty or responsible of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties and forfeitures provided in divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this section,
except as excluded from responsibility by state law.
      (3)   In addition to any other remedies, the township may institute
proceedings for injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate remedies
to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any violations of §
150.180(C). The rights and remedies provided herein are both civil and criminal
in nature. The imposition of any fine, jail sentence, or forfeiture shall not
exempt the violator from compliance with the provisions of §
150.180(C).
(Am. Ord. 122, passed 5-9-2017)
APPENDIX A: LOT COVERAGE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c80a5f15f08fd932c2d9a20f29ad7fc5f1f118e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1328.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_a_printable,_PDF_of_this_Appendix.
(Ord. -, Article IX, § 9, passed 9-12-2006)
APPENDIX B: DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c80a5f15f08fd932c2d9a20f29ad7fc5f1f118e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1331.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_a_printable,_PDF_of_this_Appendix.
(Ord. -, Article V, § 5.20, passed 9-12-2006)
APPENDIX C: ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c80a5f15f08fd932c2d9a20f29ad7fc5f1f118e1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1334.jpg]
 
Click_here_to_view_a_printable,_PDF_of_this_Appendix.
(Ord. -, passed 9-12-2006)
CHAPTER 151: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Prior approval requirement for land divisions
   
151.05   Application for land division approval
   
151.06   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval
   
151.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
151.08   Conflicts
   
151.09   Effective date
   
151.10   Severability
Lot Partition
   
151.20   Title
   
151.21   Purpose
   
151.22   Definitions
   
151.23   Lot division in recorded plats
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Township of Summit Land
Division Ordinance.”
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this subchapter is to carry out the provisions of the State
Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293,
as amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the
creation of parcels of property which do not comply with applicable ordinances
and the Act, to minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly
development of the community, and otherwise provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents and property owners of the township by establishing
reasonable standards for prior review and approval of land divisions within the
township.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land whether
recorded or not.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, personal
representatives, administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns,
for the purpose of sale or lease of more than 1 year, or of building
development that results in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the
equivalent, and that satisfies the requirements of §§108 and 109 of the State
Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.108 and 560.109. Divide and division
does not include a property transfer between 2 or more adjacent parcels, if the
property taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any adjacent
parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to
the requirements of the Land Division Act and the requirements of this
subchapter or other applicable ordinances.
   EXEMPT SPLIT. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, personal representatives,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, that does not
result in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent; provided
all resulting parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and utilities from
existing public roads through existing adequate roads or easements, or through
areas owned by the owner of the parcel that can provide the access.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Township Board for the Township of Summit.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997; Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 151.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Land in the township shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Township Assessor, or other official designated by the Township
Board, in accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
   (B)   The following shall be exempted from this requirement:
      (1)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant
to the township’s subdivision control ordinance and the State Land Division
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.;
      (2)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with
the township’s subdivision control ordinance and the State Land Division Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.; and
      (3)    An exempt split as defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Township Assessor or
other official designated by the Township Board for review and approval of a
proposed land division before making any division either by deed, land
contract, lease for more than 1 year, or for building development:
   (A)   A completed application form on the form as may be provided by the
township;
   (B)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
   (C)   A tentative parcel map showing the dimensions and legal descriptions
of the parcels proposed to be created by the division(s), the location of all
existing structures and other land improvements, accessibility of the parcels,
the parcel lines, and public utility easements, and utilities from existing
public roads;
   (D)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. and this subchapter have been met;
   (E)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part, sufficient to establish that the parcel
to be divided is legally entitled to further divisions;
   (F)   If a transfer of division rights is proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed transfer
of division rights;
   (G)   A showing that each resulting parcel that is a development site has
adequate easements for public utilities from the parcel to existing public
utility facilities; and
   (H)   A fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of the
Township Board for land division reviews pursuant to this subchapter to cover
the costs of review of the application and administration of this subchapter
and the State Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997; Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 151.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a land division application package, the Township
Assessor or other official designated by the Township Board shall forthwith
submit the same to the Township Assessor or other designated official for
decision. The Township Assessor or other designee shall approve, approve with
reasonable conditions to assure compliance with applicable ordinances and the
protection of public health, safety, and general welfare, or disapprove the
land division applied for within 45 days after receipt of the application
package conforming to this subchapter’s requirements, and shall promptly notify
the applicant of the decisions and the reasons for any denial. If the
application package does not conform to the requirements of this subchapter and
the State Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., the Assessor or
other designee shall return the same to the applicant for completion and
refiling in accordance with this subchapter and the State Land Division Act.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Assessor or
designee may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
Township Board or the other Board or person designated by the Township Board
which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote of the Board or
by the designee at its next regular meeting or session affording sufficient
time for a 20-day written notice to the applicant (and appellant where other
than the applicant) of the time and date of the meeting and appellate hearing.
   (C)   The Township Assessor or designee shall maintain an official record of
all approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with
Chapter 150, other ordinances or other regulations.
   (E)   The township and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcels
are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a statement
to this effect.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997; Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 151.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Generally. A proposed land division shall be approved if the following
criteria are met.
   (B)   Criteria.
      (1)   All the parcels to be created by the proposed land division(s)
fully comply with the applicable lot (parcel), yard, and area requirements of
the applicable zoning ordinance, including, but not limited to, minimum lot
(parcel) frontage/width, minimum road frontage, minimum lot (parcel) area,
minimum lot width to depth ratio, and maximum lot (parcel) coverage and minimum
setbacks for existing buildings/structures.
      (2)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of the
State Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. and this subchapter.
      (3)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division
does not exceed a 4:1 ratio exclusive of access roads, easements, or parcels
added to contiguous parcels that result in all involved parcels complying with
the ratio. The parent parcel is not subject to the requirements of this
section.
         (a)   The permissible depth of a parcel created by a land division
shall be measured within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road
right of way to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the
point of commencement of the measurement.
         (b)   The permissible minimum width shall be as defined in the
applicable zoning ordinance.
      (4)   That the requirements of §
151.05 have been met.
      (5)   In the absence of applicable zoning or other ordinances providing a
different standard, all parcels created by a land division shall comply with
the following minimum standards.
         (a)   Where accessibility is to be provided by a proposed new
dedicated public road, proof that the County Road Commission or Michigan
Department of Transportation has approved the proposed layout and construction
design of the road and of utility easements and drainage facilities connected
therewith.
         (b)   Where accessibility by vehicle traffic and for utilities is
permitted through other than a dedicated and accepted public road or easement,
the accessibility shall comply with the provisions of
Chapter 150.
            1.   Any intersection between private and public roads shall
contain a clear vision triangular area of not less than 2 feet along each
right-of-way line as measured from the intersecting right-of-way lines.
            2.   No private road or easement shall extend for more than 1,000
feet from a public road.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 CONFLICTS.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this subchapter are
hereby repealed, except that this chapter shall not be construed to repeal any
provision in
Chapter 150, Township of Summit subdivision control ordinance, or the township
building code.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 151.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days following its publication.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 151.10 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be severable and if
any clause, sentence, word, section, or provision is declared void or
unenforceable for any reason by any court of competent jurisdiction, it shall
not affect any portion of this chapter other than said part or portion thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
LOT PARTITION
§ 151.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as "The Summit Township Lot Partition
Ordinance."
(Ord. 28.01, passed 9-9-08)
§ 151.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and control the partitioning
or dividing of lots, outlots, or other parcels of land in a recorded plat and
the division of unplatted parcels in the township, in order to promote the
safety, public health, and general welfare of the community by providing for
orderly growth and harmonious development of the community and achieving
individual property lots of maximum utility and livability.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 9-9-08)
§ 151.22 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this subchapter, unless otherwise specifically stated. The word SHALL is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, which is described and
fixed in a recorded plat.
   OUTLOT. When included within the boundary of a recorded plat, means a lot
set aside for purposes other than a building site, park, or other land
dedicated to public use or reserved to private use.
   PARCEL. A continuous area or acreage of land as defined in the Land Division
Act (PA 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101, et seq, as amended, formerly
known as the Subdivision Control Act).
(Ord. 28.01, passed 9-9-08)
§ 151.23 LOT DIVISION IN RECORDED PLATS.
   The division of a lot in a recorded plat is prohibited, unless approved
following application to the Township Board. The application shall be filed
with the Township Clerk and shall state the reasons for the proposed division.
No lot in a recorded plat shall be divided into more than 4 parts, and the
resulting lots shall be no less in area than permitted by the Zoning Ordinance
of Summit Township. No building permit shall be issued, or any building
construction commenced, until the division has been approved by the Township
Board and the suitability of the land for building sites has been approved by
the Jackson County Health Department. The division of a lot resulting in a
small area or lesser width than prescribed by the Zoning Ordinance of Summit
Township, or the Land Division Act (PA 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101,
et seq, as amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act), may be
permitted, but only for the purpose of adding to the existing site or sites.
The application shall so state and shall be in affidavit form.
(Ord. 28.01, passed 9-9-08)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the township tax roll or
assessment roll until the assessing officer refers the suspected violation or
potential non-conformity to the county prosecuting attorney and gives written
notice to the person requesting the division, and the person suspected of the
violation or potential non-conformity of such referral to the prosecuting
attorney. The township shall further have the authority to initiate injunctive
or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any violation of
this chapter. Any division of land in violation of this chapter shall further
not be eligible for any zoning or building permit for any construction or
improvement thereto.
   (B)   In addition, any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction as defined by Michigan statute which shall be punishable by a
civil fine of not more than $500 along with costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which the township has been put in connection
with the municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less
than $10, nor more than $500, be ordered. A violator of this chapter shall also
be subject to such additional sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized
under Michigan law.
   (C)   Pursuant to Section 267 of the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq. (M.C.L.A. § 560.267), an unlawful division or split shall also
be voidable at the option of the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the
forfeiture of all consideration received or pledged therefore, together with
any damages sustained by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008 ; Am. Ord. 28.01, passed 9-9-08 )
CHAPTER 152: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   Notice
   
152.03   Hearing; order; enforcement
   
152.04   Appeals
   
152.05   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   A building or structure that has 1 or more of the following defects
or is in 1 or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of exit does
not conform to the State Fire Code of the township;
         (b)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood, or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe
and does not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter or building codes of
the township;
         (c)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse and injure persons or damage property;
         (d)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure
have materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by this chapter or of the building codes of the township;
         (e)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or
structure, because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction,
or the removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the
support or for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or
some portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give away;
         (f)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or
structure is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
         (g)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind, or flood, or
is dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children
who might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a
harbor for vagrants, criminals, or immoral persons, or enables persons to
resort to the building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful or
immoral act;
         (h)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction, or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or
unfit for human habitation, is in a condition that the Building Inspector
determines is likely to cause sickness or disease, or is likely to injure the
health, safety, or general welfare of people living in the dwelling;
         (i)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and open at door
or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers; and/or
         (j)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease, or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Article 25 of the
Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2501 -
339.2515. For purposes of this division (1)(j), “building or structure”
includes, but is not limited to, a commercial building or structure.
      (2)   This definition does not apply to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies a local law enforcement agency or the Township
Building Inspector in whose jurisdiction the building or structure is located
that the building or structure will remain unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days. The notice shall be given to the local law enforcement agency
or the Township Building Inspector by the owner or agent not more than 30 days
after the building or structure becomes unoccupied; and
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with this chapter or building codes of the
township.
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies a local law
enforcement agency or the Township Building Inspector in whose jurisdiction the
dwelling is located that the dwelling will remain unoccupied for a period of
180 consecutive days or more each year. An owner who has given the notice
prescribed by this subsection shall notify the law enforcement agency or the
Township Building Inspector not more than 30 days after the dwelling no longer
qualifies for this exception. As used in this division (2)(b), “secondary
dwelling” means a dwelling such as a vacation home, hunting cabin, or summer
home, that is occupied by the owner or a member of the owner’s family during
part of a year.
(Ord. 115.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 152.02 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if a building or
structure is found to be a dangerous building, the Building Inspector shall
issue a notice that the building or structure is a dangerous building. The
notice shall be served on the owner, agent, or lessee that is registered with
the township. If an owner, agent, or lessee is not registered with the
township, the notice shall be served on each owner of or party in interest in
the building or structure in whose name the property appears on the last local
tax assessment rolls.
   (B)   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on whether
the building or structure is a dangerous building. The person to whom the
notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause at the hearing why
the hearing officer should not order the building or structure to be
demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall be appointed by the Township Supervisor with
the consent of the Township Board to serve at his or her pleasure. The hearing
officer shall be a person who has expertise in housing matters including, but
not limited to, an engineer, architect, building contractor, building
inspector, or member of a community housing organization. An employee of the
enforcing agency shall not be appointed as hearing officer. The enforcing
agency shall file a copy of the notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building with the hearing officer.
   (D)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom the notice is directed either personally or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in interest at the address
shown on the tax records. If a notice is served on a person by certified mail,
a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a conspicuous part of the
building or structure. The notice shall be served upon the owner or party in
interest at least 10 days before the date of the hearing included in the
notice.
(Ord. 115.01, passed 6-22-1993) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 HEARING; ORDER; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   At a hearing prescribed in this chapter, the hearing officer shall
take testimony of the Building Inspector, the owner of the property, and any
interested parties. Not more than 5 days after completion of the hearing, the
hearing officer shall render a decision either closing the proceedings or
ordering the building or structure demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly
maintained.
   (B)   If the hearing officer determines that the building or structure
should be demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained, the hearing
officer shall so order, fixing a time in the order for the owner, agent, or
lessee to comply with the order. If the building is a dangerous building under
§
152.01, the order may require the owner or agent to maintain the exterior of
the building and adjoining grounds owned by the owner of the building
including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees, and shrubs.
Should the decision be made to rehabilitate or remove the structure(s) the
owner will be required to:
      (1)   Present proof of ownership;
      (2)   Post a performance bond.
         (a)   The bond shall be with a reputable insurance or guarantee
company.
         (b)   The amount of the bond shall be established by the Township
Board at the hearing required in division (D) and as may be recommended by the
Chief Building Official.
      (3)   Obtain all necessary permits and inspections and comply with all
applicable codes and ordinances.
      (4)   Rehabilitation or removal of the structure(s) shall be completed in
not more than 180 days.
   (C)   If the owner, agent, or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses
to comply with the order issued under division (B) above, the hearing officer
shall file a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Township
Board not more than 5 days after noncompliance by the owner and request that
necessary action be taken to enforce the order. A copy of the findings and
order of the hearing officer shall be served on the owner, agent, or lessee.
   (D)   The Township Board shall fix a date not less than 30 days after the
hearing prescribed above for a hearing on the findings and order of the hearing
officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent, or lessee in the manner
prescribed above of the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the
owner, agent, or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show cause why the
order should not be enforced. The Township Board of the township shall either
approve, disapprove, or modify the order. If the Township Board approves or
modifies the order, the legislative body shall take all necessary action to
enforce the order. If the order is approved or modified, the owner, agent, or
lessee shall comply with the order within 60 days after the date of the hearing
under this division (D). In the case of an order of demolition, if the Township
Board determines that the building or structure has been substantially
destroyed by fire, wind, flood, or other natural disaster, and the cost of
repair of the building or structure will be greater than the state equalized
value of the building or structure, the owner, agent, or lessee shall comply
with the order of demolition within 21 days after the date of the hearing under
this division (D).
   (E)   The cost of the demolition, of making the structure safe, or of
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure, or grounds adjoining the
building or structure incurred by the township to bring the property into
conformance with this chapter shall be reimbursed to the township by the owner
or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (F)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last tax assessment records shall be notified by the assessor of the amount
of the cost of demolition, of making the building safe, or of maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure by first-class mail at the address shown on the records. If the owner
or party in interest fails to pay the cost within 30 days after mailing by the
assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, the township shall have a
lien for the cost incurred by the township to bring the property into
conformance with this chapter. The lien shall not take effect until notice of
the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by law. A lien provided for in
this division (F) does not have priority over previously filed or recorded
liens and encumbrances. The lien for the cost shall be collected and treated in
the same manner as provided for property tax liens under the General Property
Tax Act, Public Act 206 of 1893, being M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 - 211.157.
   (G)   In addition to other remedies under this chapter, the township may
bring an action against the owner of the building or structure for the full
costs of demolition, of making the building safe, or of maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure. The township shall have a lien on the property for the amount of a
judgment obtained pursuant to this division (G). The lien provided for in this
division (G) shall not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or
recorded as provided by law. The lien does not have priority over prior filed
or recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 115.01, passed 6-22-1993; Am. Ord. 115.03, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 152.04 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Township Board shall hear appeals under this chapter.
   (B)   A majority of the Township Board constitutes a quorum. Final action of
the Township Board shall be only by affirmative vote of a majority of the Board
members appointed and serving.
   (C)   A meeting of the Township Board shall be held pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 - 15.275. Public
notice of the time, date, and place of meeting shall be given as required by
law.
   (D)   A writing prepared, owned, used, and in the possession of or retained
by the Township Board in the performance of its official function shall be made
available to the public pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act
442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
   (E)   An owner aggrieved by any final decision of the Township Board may
appeal the decision to the circuit court by filing a petition for an order of
superintending control within 20 days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. 115.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 152.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be published in the manner provided by law and shall take
effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 115.01, passed 6-22-1993)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of §§
152.01 et seq. shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined
by law and shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 and not more
than $500 as determined by the court. In addition, such person shall be deemed
to be responsible for costs, which may include all expenses to which the
township has been put as a result of the municipal civil infraction. In no
case, however, shall costs of less than $10, nor more than $500, be ordered. A
person found to be in violation shall also be subject to such additional
sanctions and judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law. The term
PERSON shall be deemed to include partnerships, limited liability companies,
corporations, and other legal entities.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD PLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Findings
   
153.02   Purposes
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Lands to which floodplains district applies
   
153.05   Development permit required
   
153.06   Compliance
   
153.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.08   Interpretation
   
153.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.20   Administration
   
153.21   Permit procedures
   
153.22   Variance procedures; standards for determination conditions
Standards and Permitted Uses
   
153.30   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
153.31   Permitted uses by right in the floodway area
   
153.32   Uses permitted by special-use permit in the floodway area
   
153.33   Requirements for special-use permit for uses in the floodway area
   
153.34   Standards for special-use permits within the floodway area
   
153.35   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
153.36   Permitted uses by right in the floodway fringe area
   
153.37   Uses permitted by special-use permit in the floodway fringe area
   
153.38   Requirements for special-use permits for uses in the floodway fringe
area
   
153.39   Standards for special-use permits within the floodway fringe
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 FINDINGS.
   The flood hazard areas of the township are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss or impairment of life, property, health and safety,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary expenditures of
public funds for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect public health, safety, and general welfare. These
flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increased heights and velocities of flood waters by the occupation of
the flood-hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazards to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.02 PURPOSES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of the Flood Prevention District to protect the
natural, human, structural, and economic resources of the township; and to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by application of
special regulations for the use of land which is, or may be, subject to
periodic inundation by floods and flood waters at predictable intervals. These
regulations, while permitting reasonable economic use and considering the
physical limitations of such land, will help to protect public health, public
safety, and general welfare, and will reduce the financial burdens imposed upon
the community which may result from the improper use of such land.
   (B)   These regulations are designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and welfare, and property due to water or erosion or in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control filling, grading, dredging, obstructions, and other
developments which may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (4)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters, or impede or obstruct the flow thereof, or
which may increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The words used in this chapter which are not expressly defined in this
section shall be given their usual customary meaning, with consideration being
given to the context in which they appear. The following terms are expressly
defined herein and, for purposes of this chapter, shall mean:
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO ZONE on the flood insurance rate
map for the township with base flood depths from 1 to 3 feet where a clearly
defined channel or watercourse does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where flood water velocity flow may be
evident.
   AO ZONE. A special flood hazard area with sheet flow, ponding, or shallow
flooding. Base flood depths are provided on the community's FLOOD INSURANCE
RATE MAP (FIRM).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year and shall be based upon a flood which is representative of large
floods known to have occurred generally in the area and is reasonably
characteristic of what can be expected to occur in a particular stream,
channel, or watercourse.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the erection of buildings or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning with the phrase, AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD
HAZARD.
   THE FLOOD PREVENTION DISTRICT. Commonly called an overlay district, which is
an approach to applying special restrictions to areas with unique
characteristics. Properties within these districts retain their underlying
zoning classification but are subject to additional requirements specified in
this chapter.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of land which is, in its normal state, dry and unsubmerged, from the
overflow of inland waters or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any surface.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY and FLOOD-WAY MAP. The map (or maps) prepared by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development which indicates the location
of the floodway and the flood-way fringe areas within the township, a copy of
which is available for examination in the office of the Township Clerk.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying on either side of the
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. That map (or maps) prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency which classifies the floodplain into various zones
for purposes of determining flood insurance premium rates within the township,
a copy of which is available for examination at the office of the Township
Clerk.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. That study (or studies) prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency which examines, evaluates, and determines flood
hazards, and if appropriate, corresponding water-surface elevations for the
township, and contains flood-profile studies as well as a flood-hazard boundary
and floodway map and the water-surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAINS ASSOCIATED WITH THE BASE FLOOD. That area which is inundated by
the base flood. This is the floodplain area which shall be regulated by the
standards and criteria of this ordinance and shall be determined with reference
to the flood boundary and floodway and the flood insurance study.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improves real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which carry and discharge the flood waters of the base flood, as
determined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and as indicated
in the flood boundary and floodway map.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. All structures, including the placement of mobile homes,
for which construction is started or commenced on or after the effective date
of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, dike, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, pile abutment,
projection, excavation, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock,
gravel, refuse, fill, structure, or other matter, in, along, across, or
projecting into any channel, watercourse, or flood-hazard area which may
impede, retain or change the direction of the flow of water or that is placed
where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to damage life or
property.
   SUBSTANTIAL. IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either:
      (1)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      (2)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
   For purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT shall be considered
to occur when the first alteration of any structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term does not include any project for improvement to comply
with existing state or city health, sanitary, or safety code requirements which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions or to any alteration of a
structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State of
Michigan Register of Historic Places.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, channel, creek,
ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine, or wash in
which water flows in a definite direction or course, either continuously or
intermittently, and which has a definite channel, bed, and banks, and shall
include any adjacent tracts subject to inundation by reason of overflow of
flood water.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.04 LANDS TO WHICH FLOODPLAINS DISTRICT APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within
the jurisdiction of the township. The flood district shall be considered to
overlay existing zoning districts and shall constitute additional terms to
those regulated by the underlying zoning district and shall be known as the
FLOOD PREVENTION DISTRICT.
   (B)   This district is hereby divided into 2 areas, which areas shall be
known as the FLOODWAY area and the FLOOD FRINGE area as defined in §
153.03.
   (C)   The location and the boundaries of floodways and floodway fringe areas
shall coincide with the location and boundaries of floodways and flood-way
fringe areas as shown on the most recent Flood Insurance Study published by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, with accompanying flood insurance rate
maps and floodway maps, and any revisions thereto all of which are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to undertake any development, including the placement of mobile
homes, within the Flood Protection District, without having first procured a
development permit as hereinafter provided, said permit being required for all
development as defined in §
153.03, and irrespective of whether or not said development involves
construction of a building or other structure.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.06 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or altered,
nor shall any land be used, except in full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable federal, state, or local regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easement, covenant, or deed restriction.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and other ordinance, easement, covenant,
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this ordinance, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the township; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state or federal statutes.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the township or of any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.20 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of the administrator. The Summit Township Building
Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Building Inspector. Duties of the
Building Inspector shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
      (3)   Review all permits for proposed new development to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding, to assure that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage within flood-prone areas;
         (b)   All public utilities, and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and installed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce flood damage.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
      (5)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (6)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures.
      (7)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-
proofed.
      (8)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Building Inspector shall obtain certification from a registered professional
engineer or architect.
      (9)   When interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Building Inspector shall make the necessary interpretation.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
      (10)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.03, then the Building Inspector shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state, or other
source, in order to administer the provisions of §
153.20.
      (11)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Building Inspector and shall be open for public
inspection.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.21 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Building
Inspector on forms furnished by such officer and may include, but not be
limited to, the following plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, storage of fill materials; drainage facilities, and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure has been flood-proofed;
      (3)   Provide a certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential flood-proofed structure meets the flood-
proofing criteria in this chapter; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, all development proposed for a
floodplain must secure a permit from the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality (MDEQ) before issuance of any local permits.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.22 VARIANCE PROCEDURES; STANDARDS FOR DETERMINATION OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The zoning board of appeals, as established by the township, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirement of this
chapter.
   (B)   The zoning board of appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Building Inspector in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the zoning board of appeals
may appeal such decision to the Jackson County Circuit Court, as provided by
statute.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (E)   In passing upon such applications, the zoning board of appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger that life and property may be threatened by flooding or
erosion;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood-plain- management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety and availability of access to the property in times of
flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters, and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site;
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges; and
      (12)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of ½ acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots on which, existing structures have been
constructed below the base-flood level, providing items (1) through (11) have
been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the ½ acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purpose of this
chapter, the zoning board of appeals may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base-flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (2)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base-flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest-
floor elevation.
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall maintain records of all appeal actions
and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
      (4)   An applicant for a variance to permit development in any floodway
shall secure a permit from the Michigan Department of Natural Resources under
the authority of 1929 PA 245, as amended by 1968 PA 167, and evidence thereof
shall be submitted to the Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
STANDARDS AND PERMITTED USES
§ 153.30 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special-flood hazards, the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of
the structures;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (4)   All new and replacement water-supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      (5)   New and replacement sanitary-sewer systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
      (6)   On-site waste-disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special-flood hazards the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   Residential construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to 1 foot above base-flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to 1 foot
above the base-flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be flood-proofed so that below the base-flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the flood-proofing methods are adequate to withstand the
flood depths, pressure, velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors
associated with the base flood. Such certification shall be provided to the
township.
      (3)   Mobile homes:
         (a)   No mobile home shall be placed in a floodway area, except in an
existing mobile home park or existing mobile home subdivision.
         (b)   All mobile homes placed within the floodway and flood-way fringe
areas shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
providing over-the-top ties to ground anchors. Specific requirements shall be
that:
            1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the 4 corners of the
mobile home, with 2 additional ties per side at intermediate locations and
mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring 1 additional tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with 5
additional ties per side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring 4 additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
         (c)   For new mobile home parks and subdivisions, for expansions to
existing mobile home parks and subdivisions, for existing mobile home parks and
subdivisions where the repair, reconstruction, or improvement has commenced,
and for mobile homes not placed in a mobile home park or subdivision, it is
required that:
            1.   Stands or lots are elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so
that the lowest floor of the mobile home will be 1 foot above the base-flood
level;
            2.   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler are
provided; and
            3.   In the instance of elevation on pilings;
               a.   Lots are large enough to permit steps;
               b.   Piling foundations are placed in stable soil no more than
10 feet apart; and
               c.   Reinforcement is provided for pilings more than 6 feet
above the ground level.
      (4)   Floodways: Included within the areas of special flood hazard are
areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply:
         (a)   Encroachments, including new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments are prohibited unless certification by a
professional registered engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during
occurrence of the base-flood discharge.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply
with all applicable flood-hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   The placement of any mobile homes is prohibited except in an
existing mobile home park or existing mobile subdivision.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.31 PERMITTED USES BY RIGHT IN THE FLOODWAY AREA.
   (A)   The following uses having a low flood-damage potential and which
present either no, or minimal obstruction to flood flows, shall be permitted
within the floodway district to the extent that they are not prohibited by any
other ordinance and provided they do not require structures, fill, or storage
of materials or equipment. No use shall in any manner, affect the capacity of
the channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream, drainage ditch,
or any other drainage facility or system.
   (B)   Approval from the State of Michigan Department of Natural Resources is
required for construction activity such as the following, to be permitted in
the floodway and flood-way fringe areas of the Flood Prevention District:
      (1)   Recreation uses: Parks, playgrounds, play fields, bridle paths,
nature trails, natural wildlife preserves, outdoor tennis courts, archery
ranges, boat launching ramps, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges. game farms,
fish hatcheries, and similar uses.
      (2)   Golf courses and driving ranges: In accordance with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance of the township.
      (3)   Agricultural uses: General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, and wild-crop farming.
      (4)   Vegetated buffers: Existing and/or constructed vegetative buffers.
      (5)   Uses incidental to single-family dwellings: Lawns, gardens, and
play areas.
      (6)   Parking areas: Provided said parking areas are unpaved and are
incidental to those uses permitted in the subdivisions listed above.
      (7)   Uses not permitted: Permitted uses in underlying zoning districts
shall not be construed as being permitted uses in the floodway area of the
Flood Prevention District unless those uses are indicated as being permitted in
the subdivisions listed above.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.32 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL-USE PERMIT IN THE FLOODWAY AREA.
   Provided such uses shall not, in the opinion of the planning commission, be
adverse to the purposes of this chapter or damaging to the public health,
safety, or welfare, or impose a financial burden upon the community or shall in
any manner affect the capacity of the channels or floodways of any tributary to
the main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system, the
following uses may be permitted by issuance of a special-use permit in
accordance with all other requirements of the zoning ordinance of the township
and §
153.31:
   (A)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and pipe
lines;
   (B)   Marinas, boat rentals, piers, and wharves;
   (C)   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other minerals;
   (D)   Structures for recreational uses such as shelter houses, outbuildings,
or wildlife sanctuaries;
   (E)   Paved parking areas; and
   (F)   Other uses similar in nature to uses described in §
153.31 which are consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.33 REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL-USE PERMIT FOR USES IN THE FLOODWAY AREA.
   In addition to all other requirements of the zoning ordinances of the
township, the application for a special-use permit in the floodway area of the
flood-Prevention District shall submit the following:
   (A)   A letter of approval from the State of Michigan Department of Natural
Resources;
   (B)   A location map, including existing topographic data at two-foot
interval contours at a scale of 1 inch representing 100 feet;
   (C)   A map showing proposed grading and drainage plans, including the
location of all public drainage easements, the limits, extent, and elevation of
the proposed fill, excavation, and occupation;
   (D)   A statement from the Jackson County Drain Commissioner indicating that
he or she has reviewed and approved the proposal;
   (E)   A statement from the State Director of Public Works concerning
feasibility of the proposal and his approval; and
   (F)   Any other information requested by the planning commission.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.34 STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL-USE PERMITS WITHIN THE FLOODWAY AREA.
   The planning commission shall review the particular circumstances and facts
of each proposed use in terms of the following standards as well as those in §
153.33:
   (A)   Structures shall not be designed for human habitation and shall have a
low flood-damage potential;
   (B)   Structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of the flood
waters and whenever possible, shall be constructed with the longer of the 2
axes parallel to the direction of flood flow to minimize flow resistance;
   (C)   No special-use permit shall be issued for the development of new
structures, substantial improvement or relocation of old structures, or
development of any kind within the floodway when such development,
construction, improvement, or relocation would cause any increase in flood
level associated with the base flood.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.35 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of the special flood hazard defined in §
153.03 are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood
hazards, associated with base-flood depths of 1 to 3 feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the crown
of the nearest street to or above the depth number specified on the flood
insurance rate map for the township.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above ground of
the nearest street to or above the depth number specified on the flood
insurance rate map; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.36 PERMITTED USES BY RIGHT IN THE FLOODWAY FRINGE AREA.
   (A)   The following uses having a low flood-damage potential and which
present either no, or minimal obstruction to flood flows, shall be permitted
within the floodway fringe district to the extent that they are not prohibited
by any other ordinance and provided they do not require structures, fill or
storage materials, or equipment.
   (B)   Approval from the State of Michigan Department of Natural Resources is
needed for construction activity taking place in the floodway fringe:
      (1)   Recreation uses: Parks, playgrounds, play fields, bridle paths,
nature trails, natural wildlife preserves, outdoor tennis courts, archery
ranges, boat launching ramps, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, game farms,
fish hatcheries, and similar uses.
      (2)   Golf courses and driving ranges: In accordance with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance of the township.
      (3)   Agricultural uses: General fanning, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, and wild-crop fanning.
      (4)   Uses incidental to single-family dwellings: Lawns, gardens, and
play areas.
      (5)   Uses not permitted: Permitted uses in underlying zoning districts
shall not be construed as being permitted uses in the floodway area of the
Flood Prevention District unless those uses are indicated as being permitted in
the subdivisions listed above.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.37 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL-USE PERMIT IN THE FLOODWAY FRINGE AREA.
   Provided such uses shall not, in the opinion of the planning commission, be
adverse to the purpose of this chapter or damaging to the public health,
safety, or welfare, or impose a financial burden upon the community, the
following uses may be permitted by issuance of a special-use permit in
accordance with the zoning ordinance of the township and any other requirements
contained herein:
   (A)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and pipe
lines;
   (B)   Marinas, boat rentals, piers, and wharves;
   (C)   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other minerals;
   (D)   Structures for recreational uses such as shelter houses, outbuildings,
or wildlife sanctuaries;
   (E)   Those uses indicated as being permitted uses or as being permissible
with a special-use permit in those zoning districts which underlie the Flood-
Prevention District;
   (F)   Dumping or backfilling with any material in any manner. In the case
where flood-way fringe areas have no groundwater recharge or impoundment
potential, filling may occur through compensating excavation and shaping of the
flood-way fringe in such a way as to maintain and improve the flow or natural
impoundment capacity of the floodway fringe. In no case shall the flow or
impoundment capacity of the floodway fringe be reduced.
   (G)   Other uses similar in nature to uses described in §
153.36 which are consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.38 REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL-USE PERMITS FOR USES IN THE FLOODWAY FRINGE
AREA.
   In addition to an other requirements of the zoning ordinance of the
township, the applicant for a special-use permit in the Flood Prevention
District shall be required to submit that information listed as necessary in §
153.33.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
§ 153.39 STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL-USE PERMITS WITHIN THE FLOODWAY FRINGE AREA.
   The planning commission shall review the particular circumstances and facts
of each proposed use in terms of the following standards as well as those in §
153.33:
   (A)   All new residential structures and residential structures requiring
substantial improvement shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to 1 foot above the level of the base-flood floodplain.
   (B)   All new nonresidential structures and nonresidential structures
requiring substantial improvement shall be the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to 1 foot above the level of the intermediate regional flood
plan or shall be flood-proofed to 1 foot above the level of the intermediate
regional floodplain.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 154: STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE EXCERPTS
Section
   
154.01   Agency designated
§ 154.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Building, Electrical, Mechanical,
and Plumbing Code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of 1972 PA 230 (M.C.L.A. §
125.1508b) the Building, Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing Code officials of
the township are hereby designated as the enforcing agencies to discharge the
responsibility of the township under Act 230 of the Michigan Public Acts of
1972. The Township of Summit, Jackson County, Michigan, assumes responsibility
for the administration and enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate
limits.
(Ord. passed 3-25-2008)
CHAPTER 155: NUISANCE ELIMINATION
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Causes
   
155.03   Enforcement
   
155.04   Conflicts
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the letter and spirit of Public Act 344 of 1945, as amended,
it is the purpose of this chapter to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight or
potential blight in Summit Township by the prevention or elimination of certain
environmental causes of blight or blighting factors, which exist or which may
in the future exist in Summit Township.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 155.02 CAUSES.
   It is hereby determined that the following uses, structures and activities
are causes of blight or blighting factors which, if allowed to exist, will tend
to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods. On or after the effective
date of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation of any kind shall maintain
or permit to be maintained any of these causes of blight or blighting factors
upon any property in Summit Township owned, leased, rented or occupied by such
person, firm or corporation:
   (A)   (1)   In any area, the storage upon any property of junk or dismantled
vehicles, except in a completely enclosed building, is prohibited.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         JUNK AUTOMOBILES. Any motor vehicle which is not licensed for use upon
the highways of the State of Michigan; includes, whether so licensed or not,
any motor vehicle which is inoperative.
   (B)   In any area, the storage upon any property of building materials
unless there is in force a valid building permit issued by Summit Township for
construction upon said property and said materials are intended for use in
connection with such construction. Building materials shall include, but shall
not be limited to, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws, or any other materials
used in constructing any structure.
   (C)   (1)   In any area, the storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish
or refuse of any kind without a landfill permit, except domestic refuse stored
in such a manner as not to create a nuisance for a period not to exceed 14
days.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         JUNK. Parts of machinery or motor vehicles; unused stoves or other
appliances stored in the open; remnants of woods, metal or any other material;
or other cast-off material of any kind, whether or not the same could be put to
any reasonable use.
   (D)   In any area, the existence of any structure or part of any structure
which, because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration, is no longer habitable as a dwelling nor useful for any other
purpose for which it may have been intended.
   (E)   In any area, the existence of any vacant dwelling, garage or other
out-building, unless such buildings are kept securely locked and windows are
kept glazed, neatly boarded up, and/or otherwise protected to prevent entrance
thereto by vandals or other unauthorized persons.
   (F)   In any area, the existence of any partially completed structure,
unless such structure is in the course of construction in accordance with a
valid and subsisting building permit issued by the township, and unless such
construction is completed within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 155.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by such persons who shall be so
designated by the Township Board.
   (B)   The owner, occupant or agent of any property upon which any of the
causes of blight or blighting factors set forth in §
155.02 hereof is found to exist shall be notified in writing to remove or
eliminate such causes of blight or blighting factors from such property within
10 days after service of the notice upon him or her. Such notice may be served
personally or by first class mail. Additional time may be granted by the
Enforcement Officer where bonafide efforts to remove or eliminate such causes
of blight or blighting factors are in progress.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 155.04 CONFLICTS.
   Any ordinance or parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with any of
the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with such notice within the time allowed by the
owner and/or occupant shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a municipal civil infraction and shall
be punished by a fine(s) as provided for by §
93.99. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   In addition, any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nuisance
per se, permitting the Township Board, its officers, agents, or any private
citizen to bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to cause the
abatement of the nuisance, including injunctive relief.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 156: CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
Section
   
156.01   Short title and citation
   
156.02   Board established
   
156.03   Conflicts
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Construction Code Board of Appeals
   
156.06   Conduct of hearings; procedures
   
156.07   Variances
   
156.08   Notice
   
156.09   Other duties of Board of Appeals
§ 156.01 SHORT TITLE AND CITATION.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Township of Summit
Construction Board of Appeals Ordinance."
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.02 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   A Construction Board of Appeals is hereby established pursuant to the
provisions set forth in the Michigan Construction Code Act, being Act 230 of
the Michigan Public Acts of 1972, as amended.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.03 CONFLICTS.
   All ordinances which may have been previously enacted and which are in
conflict with this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ACT. The State Construction Code Act of 1978, being 230 P.A. of 1978, as
amended.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Construction Board of Appeals created by this chapter
pursuant to the State Construction Code Act.
   CODE. The State Construction Code provided for in M.C.L.A. § 125.1504, as
amended, or a part of that code of limited application and includes a
modification of or amendment to the code.
   COMMISSION. The State Construction Code Commission.
   ENFORCING AGENCY. The enforcing agent, as provided in the State Construction
Code Act, which is responsible for the administration and enforcement of a
nationally recognized model code or the State Construction Code within a
governmental unit, except as may be provided in M.C.L.A. § 125.1519, as
amended.
   INTERESTED PERSON. A political subdivision of the state, natural person,
limited liability company, partnership or corporation who has applied for a
building permit and whose application has been refused, in whole or in part, by
the enforcing agency, or a person, limited liability company, partnership or
corporation which is the subject of any other decision of the enforcing agency
made pursuant to or related to the Act or the Code.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Summit and its Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.05 CONSTRUCTION CODE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Membership. The Board of Appeals shall consist of 5 members who shall
be nominated by the Township Supervisor and approved by the Board of Trustees.
Members shall be qualified by experience or training in a manner consistent
with the Act. Members shall serve a 2-year term; except that the Supervisor may
appoint a replacement in the event that a member resigns or is otherwise unable
to serve. The Supervisor may also appoint alternate members who may serve in
the event of a conflict or the temporary absence or unavailability of a member,
provided that the alternate is qualified as required by the Act.
   (B)   Meetings. The Board of Appeals shall meet on an ad hoc basis to
consider appeals properly filed by an interested person or the person's
authorized agent in the manner provided by the Act, and which appeals are
consistent with the jurisdiction conferred upon the Board of Appeals by the
Act. The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal and shall render and file with
the enforcing agency its decision within 30 days after submission of the appeal
as required by the Act and the provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Compensation. The township may, by resolution, provide for reasonable
compensation to be paid to Board of Appeals members for attendance at hearings
or discharge of other required duties; provided, however, that all members
shall be compensated at an equal rate and the rate of compensation shall be
consistent with the rate which is paid by the township to members of other
boards and commissions.
   (D)   Open meetings; notice. Public notice of the time, date and place of
all Board of Appeals meetings shall be given in the manner required by the Open
Meetings Act (Act No. 267 of P.A. of 1976, as amended). The business which the
Board of Appeals may perform shall be conducted at a public meeting of the
Board of Appeals held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act (Act No. 267 of
P.A. of 1976, as amended).
   (E)   Official record. A record of decisions made by the Board of Appeals,
properly indexed, and any other writing prepared, owned, used or in possession
of, or retained by the enforcing agency for the Board of Appeals in the
performance of an official function shall be made available to the public in
compliance with the Freedom of Information Act (Act No. 442 of P.A. of 1976, as
amended).
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.06 CONDUCT OF HEARINGS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An interested person, or that person's authorized representative, may
institute an appeal of the decision of the enforcing agency to refuse to grant,
in whole or in part, an application for a building permit, or any other
decision of the enforcing agency made pursuant to, or related to, the Act or
the Code. The request for appeal shall be in writing, and shall set forth the
name and address of the interested party, the nature of the decision being
appealed, the date the decision was rendered and a concise statement of the
reason for the appeal. The request for appeal shall be dated and signed by the
interested party or his or her authorized representative. For the purposes of
instituting an appeal, failure of the enforcing agency to grant, in whole or in
part, or to deny an application for permit within a maximum of 15 days, shall
be deemed a denial of the application for purposes of authorizing the
institution of an appeal. Failure of an interested party to request an appeal
within 30 days after the written or deemed denial will be considered a waiver
of the appeal.
   (B)   Fees. The township may, by resolution, establish a fee for the
institution of an appeal, which fee shall not exceed the actual costs to the
township of administering the appeal, including compensation for Board of
Appeals members and expenses for required public notices and publications.
   (C)   Hearings. Hearings shall be conducted in an impartial manner without
undue delay. The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal and render and file its
decision with a statement of reasons for the decision with the enforcing agency
from which the appeal was taken not more than 30 days after submission of the
appeal. Failure by the Board of Appeals to hear an appeal and file a decision
within the time limit is considered to be a denial of the appeal for purposes
of authorizing the institution of an appeal to the commission. A copy of the
decision and statement of the reasons for the decision shall be delivered or
mailed, before filing, to the party taking the appeal.
   (D)   Procedure. The township may establish procedures to be followed by the
Board of Appeals insofar as those procedures do not conflict with the Act.
Except as otherwise provided by the Act, or by any other applicable laws or
ordinances, the Board of Appeals may by rules establish its own procedures.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   After a public hearing, the Board of Appeals may grant a specific
variance to a substantive requirement of the Code if the literal application of
the substantive requirement would result in an exceptional, practical
difficulty to the applicant, and if both of the following requirements are
satisfied.
      (1)   The performance of the particular item or part of the building or
structure with respect to which the variance is granted shall be adequate for
its intended use and shall not substantially deviate from performance required
by the Code of that particular item or part for the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the township.
      (2)   The specific condition justifying the variance shall be neither so
general nor recurrent in nature as to make an amendment of the Code with
respect to the condition reasonably practical or desirable.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals may attach in writing any condition in connection
with the granting of a variance that in its judgment is necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the people of the township. The breach of
such a condition shall automatically invalidate the variance and any permit,
license and certificate granted on the basis of it. In no case shall more than
a minimum variance from the Code be granted which is necessary to alleviate the
exceptional, practical difficulty.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.08 NOTICE.
   Interested parties to an appeal or variance proceeding shall be given
reasonable notice of the date, time, place and nature of hearing with a concise
statement of the nature of the proceeding and the matters involved.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
§ 156.09 OTHER DUTIES OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as preventing the township from
granting the Board of Appeals additional powers or duties not inconsistent with
the Act or other applicable laws or ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
CHAPTER 157: STRUCTURES UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION
Section
   
157.01   Purpose and intent
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Authorized officials
   
157.04   Factors to declare structures unfit for human habitation
   
157.05   Notice to vacate
   
157.06   Vacating of unfit structure
   
157.07   Referral to building inspector
   
157.08   Administrative inspections
   
157.09   Immediate health and safety hazards
   
157.10   Living in structures other than dwellings
   
157.11   Camping or living on public property
   
157.12   Theft of utility services
 
   
157.98   Enforcement
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent people from living in structures
which are unsafe or unfit for human habitation. It is also the intent of the
Township Board, in adopting this chapter, to provide law enforcement and other
township officials immediate authority to vacate structures which pose a risk
to the health and safety of any person occupying the structure.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. A subject listed in §
157.03.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used, designed, or
constructed for the purpose of, or intended to be used for human habitation.
   DWELLING UNIT. One (1) or more rooms arranged for the use of 1 or more
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit, with cooking,
living, sanitary and sleeping facilities.
   HUMAN HABITATION. The use of any room, rooming unit, dwelling unit, building
or premises for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes by
1 or more persons.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY. Any baseball field, football field, soccer field,
basketball court, tennis court or any other place designed for recreational
sports.
   STRUCTURE. Encompasses all types of buildings, including dwellings, but also
outbuildings, garages, commercial buildings, factories, schools and the like.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. Tents, fabric covered assemblies and shelters, or
storage containers that are not fastened to a permanent foundation.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That structure which is a hazard to the health
and welfare of the occupants because it lacks maintenance or is in disrepair,
lacks essential services (gas, water, electric and sewer), is unsanitary, or
insect-, vermin-, or rodent-infested.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.03 AUTHORIZED OFFICIALS.
   The following officials are authorized to declare a structure unfit for
human habitation:
   (A)   The Building Inspector.
   (B)   A sworn peace officer of the township police force or Jackson County
Sheriff's Office.
   (C)   The township ordinance officer.
   (D)   A captain or on-duty acting captain of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.04 FACTORS TO DECLARE STRUCTURES UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   Examples of property conditions that may result in vacating of a structure
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Lack of essential electric service;
   (B)   Lack of essential gas service;
   (C)   Lack of essential water service;
   (D)   Evidence of a lead hazard as demonstrated by a child with an elevated
blood level who resides in or visits the dwelling as reported by the Jackson
County Health Department or other health agency;
   (E)   Evidence of infestation;
   (F)   Evidence of a sewage backup;
   (G)   Evidence of active methamphetamine components, or other drug related
or hazardous materials;
   (H)   Evidence the structure has become structurally unsound due to fire,
flood, damage from weather or a natural disaster;
   (I)   Evidence of other living conditions which are unsanitary and unfit for
human habitation.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.05 NOTICE TO VACATE.
   (A)   When an authorized official finds any structure unfit for human
habitation, he or she shall immediately post notice for a 24-hour period in
placard form in a conspicuous place on the premises to be vacated.
   (B)   After posting the notice, the authorized official shall cause notice
to vacate to be served on the owner or his or her responsible local agent as
follows:
      (1)   By personal service on the owner or the responsible local agent; or
      (2)   By personal service to the owner, the responsible local agent, or
to a person of suitable age and discretion at the owner's or responsible local
agent's last known address; or
      (3)   By first class mail addressed to the owner or his or her
responsible local agent at his or her last known address.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.06 VACATING OF UNFIT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Any dwelling, dwelling unit or structure which has been declared unfit
for human habitation shall be vacated within a reasonable time as required by
the authorized official who declared a violation.
   (B)   No person shall occupy such dwelling, dwelling unit or structure until
written approval is secured from the Building Inspector.
   (C)   A person who does any of the following is guilty of a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Willfully refuses to vacate a dwelling, dwelling unit or structure
ordered vacated under this section;
      (2)   Reoccupies, causes or allows such a dwelling, dwelling unit or
structure to be reoccupied without satisfying all requirements of a notice or
order issued under this section;
      (3)   Without authority from the authorized official, removes a notice to
vacate posted on a dwelling, dwelling unit or structure pursuant to this
section.
   (D)   Until such time that the requirements of §
157.07 below are met, any structure that has been deemed unfit for human
habitation and posted as required by this section, shall be considered a vacant
building after the date and time the structure was ordered vacated has passed.
A person who enters onto the property around a vacant building or into the
structure without written permission from an authorized official is guilty of a
misdemeanor as provided in this section, regardless of whether the person has
permission from the owner or occupant of the vacated structure, or if the
person is the owner or occupant of the vacated building.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.07 REFERRAL TO BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   An authorized official, other than the Building Inspector, who has
declared a dwelling, dwelling unit or structure unfit for human habitation
shall refer the matter to the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall determine if the dwelling, dwelling unit
or structure qualifies as a dangerous building, as defined in
Chapter 152.
      (1)   If the Building Inspector determines the building qualifies as a
dangerous building, the appropriate steps shall be taken as outlined in
Chapter 152.
      (2)   If the Building Inspector determines the building does not qualify
as a dangerous building, any notice to vacate shall be removed and the building
may be reoccupied.
   (C)   The Building Inspector may authorize the owner, occupant, contractors
or other responsible parties to enter any vacated structure during daylight
hours to make necessary repairs or to take action to correct any violations. If
the Building Inspector authorizes any person to enter the structure, the
Building Inspector shall notify the Jackson County Sheriff's Office in writing
of the persons so authorized to be on the property. Any permission from the
Building Inspector shall not allow any persons to be on the property of a
vacated structure during nighttime hours or allow the reoccupation of the
structure until such structure is deemed fit for human habitation.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.08 ADMINISTRATIVE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   In order that they may perform their duties to safeguard the health,
safety and welfare of the occupants of dwellings and of the general public,
authorized officials may make or cause to be made such inspections of dwellings
or dwelling units as are necessary to enforce the provisions of this section.
The inspections that are authorized for the purpose of enforcement of the
provisions of this section shall be made at a reasonable time.
   (B)   An inspection shall be conducted in the manner best calculated to
secure compliance with this section and appropriate to the needs of the
community.
   (C)   In an emergency situation, authorized officials have the right to
enter at any time for purposes of this section. An emergency shall exist when
an authorized official has reasonable grounds to believe that a condition
hazardous to health or safety exists on the premises and requires immediate
attention.
   (D)   In a nonemergency situation or where the owner or occupant of any
dwelling demands a warrant for inspection of the premises, authorized officials
may seek to obtain an administrative search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (E)   A person shall not obstruct, hinder or interfere with an
administrative inspection permitted under this section.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.09 IMMEDIATE HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS.
   (A)   If an authorized official observes conditions on any property around a
structure that are hazardous to the health or safety of persons on public
property or neighboring properties, those conditions are hereby declared a
public nuisance. Authorized officials may take reasonable steps to abate the
nuisance immediately, but only as necessary to ensure public health and safety.
   (B)   The costs associated with abating any immediate health and safety
hazard shall be assessed to the owner or occupant of the property where the
hazard originated.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.10 LIVING IN STRUCTURES OTHER THAN DWELLINGS.
   A person shall not utilize a structure, other than a dwelling, dwelling
unit, hotel or motel, for human habitation unless approved in writing by an
official of the township.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.11 CAMPING OR LIVING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person shall not utilize a temporary structure for human habitation
on public property.
   (B)   A person shall not set up a tent, camper, recreational vehicle or
other temporary living space upon public property except in a campground or
other areas where it is expressly permitted by law.
   (C)   A person shall not sleep in any public structure or utilize any public
structure for human habitation, except in areas specifically designed for that
purpose.
   (D)   A person shall not sleep on or in any public bench, dock, playground,
dumpster, recreational facility, school ground, restroom or park.
   (E)   A person shall not sleep in any motor vehicle, trailer or other
vehicle upon public property, without permission from a township official,
except in a campground or other areas where it is expressly permitted by law.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.12 THEFT OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to bypass, tamper with or interfere
with an electric, gas or water meter without permission from the utility
company operating the meter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to steal electricity, gas or water services by
running or diverting such services from another person's property.
   (C)   A person shall not run electric, gas or water services from a property
not owned by that person to another property that does not have those services
actively provided through a meter from a utility company.
   (D)   A person shall not run an extension cord from one property to another
property for purposes of providing electricity to a property that does not have
active electric services.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer with the Jackson County Sheriff's Office or
the township police force may make an arrest for any misdemeanor violation of
this chapter as permitted by law.
   (B)   Any authorized official may issue a citation for any misdemeanor or
municipal civil infraction violation of this chapter as permitted by law.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates any provision of §
157.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a
$500 fine, plus cost of prosecution.
   (B)   A person who violates §
157.08(E) is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/
or a $500 fine, plus cost of prosecution.
   (C)   A person who violates §
157.10 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction or guilty of a
misdemeanor as follows:
      (1)   For a first offense, the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction punishable by a $100 fine.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine, plus cost
of prosecution.
   (D)   A person who violates §
157.11 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction or guilty of a
misdemeanor as follows:
      (1)   For a first offense, the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction punishable by a $100 fine.
      (2)   For a second or subsequent offense, or if the person refuses to
cease the prohibited conduct and depart from the area as directed by an
authorized official, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to
90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine, plus cost of prosecution.
   (E)   A person who violates §
157.12 is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a
$500 fine, plus cost of prosecution. Additionally, a person convicted of a
violation of this section may be ordered to pay restitution to a utility
company or any person who incurred additional costs from a utility company as a
result of the violation.
(Ord. 161, passed 6-14-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   TAXATION
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
25.10    1-8-2002    Gas franchise granted to Consumers Energy Company
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
104.00   3-25-1975   Water and sewer disposal system acquisition and
                     construction of extension and improvements
105.0    9-8-1998    Drinking water revolving loan fund
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
116.01   11-10-1992  Hazardous material agreement with the City of Jackson,
                     Michigan
- -      3-25-2008   Agreeing and authorizing application for participation in
                     federal flood insurance program
 
TABLE IV: TAXATION
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        6-10-1997   Amends Ordinance 27
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. 2007 Code
M.C.L.A.            2007 Code
3.1001-3.1004       32.20
3.991-3.994         32.20
5.2084(2)           10.01
15.231 et seq.      150.402,
                    152.04
15.261 et seq.      150.402
15.261 - 15.275     152.04
19.711 et seq.      110.06
19.720(1) et seq.   110.01
19.740(1) et seq.   110.06
24.201 et seq.      51.155,
                    70.02
28.451 et seq.      97.01
28.457(3)           97.05
41.77               32.01
41.183(5)           130.99,
                    133.99
57.625              70.03
117.5b              10.01
123.161 - 123.167   51.119
123.731 - 123.786   51.002
123.1103(a)         133.10
124.512             32.01
                    150.151,
125.1501 et seq.    150.175,
                    150.219
125.1504            156.04
125.1508b           154.01
125.1519            156.04
125.2301 - 125.2350 150.072,
                    150.146
125.271 - 125.301   150.001
125.271 et seq.     150.405
                    150.001,
                    150.051,
                    150.145,
                    150.177,
125.3101 et seq.    150.348,
                    150.365,
                    150.382,
                    150.383,
                    150.395,
                    150.405
                    150.395,
125.321 et seq.     150.396,
                    150.404,
                    150.405
125.3307            150.006
125.3308            150.006,
                    150.382
125.3405            150.382
125.3507            150.006
125.3604(7)         150.367
                    150.395,
125.3801 et seq.    150.396,
                    150.404
129.11 - 129.118    32.01
129.91              32.01
141.101 - 141.138   51.138
141.121             50.05
141.907             150.006
205.53              93.04
211.1 - 211.157     152.03
                    150.006,
252.301 et seq.     150.191,
                    150.198,
                    150.202
257.1 - 257.82      70.03
257.1 - 257.923     70.03
257.19a             71.02
257.225             70.03
257.228             70.03
257.243             70.03
257.244             70.03
257.255             70.03
257.256             70.03
257.310e            70.03
257.311             70.03
257.312a            70.03
257.324             70.03
257.325             70.03
257.326             70.03
257.328             70.03
257.601             70.03
257.601b            70.03
257.602 - 257.606   70.03
257.611 - 257.616   70.03
257.617a - 257.622  70.03
257.624a - 257.624b 70.03
257.625a            70.03
257.625m            70.03
257.626             70.03
257.627 - 257.627b  70.03
257.629b            70.03
257.631 - 257.632   70.03
257.634 - 257.645   70.03
257.647 - 257.655   70.03
257.656 - 257.662   70.03
257.667 - 257.675d  70.03
257.676 - 257.682b  70.03
257.676b            111.01,
                    111.20
257.683 - 257.710e  70.03
257.716 - 257.724   70.03
257.904 - 257.904a  70.03
257.904e            70.03
257.905             70.03
259.10              150.006
259.151             150.006
259.431 et seq.     150.006
259.86              150.006
286.471 - 286.474   150.006,
                    150.051
286.471 et seq.     150.315
286.841 et seq.     112.02
324.11101-324.11153 Ch: 51, App. C
324.11501 et seq.   150.006,
                    70.04
324.51501 et seq.   94.07
333.1101 et seq.    150.006
333.7106            150.006
333.7106(4)         112.02
333.26421 et seq.   150.006,
                    150.180
333.26423           150.006
333.26423(g)        150.006
333.27953           131.02
339.2501 - 339.2515 152.01
400.701 et seq.     150.006
436.1701 - 436.1707 133.11
436.1703            70.04
445.81 et seq.      32.02
445.401 et seq.     110.06
445.471 et seq.     110.06
445.481 et seq.     110.01
500.3102            70.04
                    150.006,
559.101 - 559.272   150.130,
                    150.271
559.108             150.006
559.171             150.006
560.101             150.006
560.101 - 560.293   150.177,
                    151.02
                    150.407,
                    151.04 -
560.101 et seq.     151.07, 
                    151.22,
                    151.23,
                    151.99
560.108             151.03
560.109             151.03
600.8302            30.06
600.8701 et seq.    30.23 ,
                    150.999
722.111 - 722.128   51.177,
                    150.006
722.151             133.60
722.641 - 722.645   133.11
750.78              130.99
750.79              130.99
750.81              130.99
750.135a            133.11
750.141a            133.11
750.145             133.11
750.174             130.99
750.199             130.99
750.216a            130.99
750.216b            130.99
750.217g            130.99
750.217h            130.99
750.218             130.99
750.223             133.10
750.227d            133.10
750.232a            133.10
750.233             133.10
750.234d            133.10
750.234e            133.10
750.234f            133.10
750.236             133.23
750.237             133.10
750.237a            133.10
750.243a et seq.    97.01
750.356             132.55
750.356d            132.99
750.377a            130.99
750.377d            130.99
750.394             130.99
750.448             130.99
750.535             130.99
752.862             133.20
752.863a            133.10
764.9(c)            30.23
2227                31.01
2845                31.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-9-1984   32.05
-        3-26-1988   31.05
-        11-13-1989  30.55
-        4-27-1993   31.04
-        6-14-1994   30.40
-        2-14-1995   32.04
-        4-10-2001   32.03
-        6-12-2001   31.03
-        12-11-2001  31.02
-        11-12-2002  32.21
-        1-14-2003   32.01
-        2-11-2003   32.01
-        9-14-2004   32.03
1001     11-9-2004   32.20
1001     11-9-2004   34.01
1001     11-9-2004   34.02
1001     11-9-2004   34.03
1001     11-9-2004   34.04
-        11-8-2005   32.02
-        2-14-2006   Ch. 51, App. D
-        11-14-2006  32.01
-        12-11-2007  32.21
-        1-8-2008    50.04
-        1-8-2008    51.113
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed 2007 Code
Ord. No.               Date Passed 2007 Code
115.02                 - -         31.01
110                    2-22-1966   93.20 -
                                   93.27
                                   132.15 -
15.00                  4-24-1973   132.17,
                                   132.99
104.00                 3-25-1975   TSO II
11.04                  1-24-1978   51.126
19.00                  9-12-1978   96.01 -
                                   96.08
                                   72.01 -
20                     9-12-1978   72.06,
                                   72.99
                                   72.20 -
20.01                  11-27-1979  72.26,
                                   72.99
-                      1-26-1982   72.05,
                                   72.99
23                     5-13-1986   91.01,
                                   91.99
                                   50.01 -
103                    7-14-1987   50.03,
                                   50.05,
                                   50.06
                                   71.01 -
20.02                  7-14-1987   71.05,
                                   Ch. 71, App. A
27                     11-22-1988  TSO IV
26                     1-9-1989    110.40
-                      1-22-1990   50.07,
                                   93.23
-                      3-24-1992   50.07
                                   31.35 -
116.01                 11-10-1992  31.39,
                                   TSO III
110.01                 6-22-1993   93.01 -
                                   93.07
115.01                 6-22-1993   152.01 -
                                   152.05
                                   131.01 -
29.02                  7-9-1996    131.07,
                                   131.99
-                      5-13-1997   93.02,
                                   93.05
-                      6-10-1997   TSO IV
                                   93.02,
-                      9-9-1997    93.03,
                                   93.05
14.03                  9-9-1997    132.99
28.01                  11-11-1997  151.01 -
                                   151.09
105.0                  9-8-1998    TSO II
14.04                  6-8-1999    31.20 -
                                   31.24
                                   51.001 -
                                   51.007,
                                   51.020 -
                                   51.026,
                                   51.040 -
                                   51.043,
                                   51.055 -
                                   51.067,
                                   51.080 -
                                   51.095,
12.00                  9-14-1999   51.110 -
                                   51.112,
                                   51.114 -
                                   51.125,
                                   51.135 -
                                   51.138,
                                   51.150 -
                                   51.155,
                                   51.170 -
                                   51.177,
                                   Ch. 51, App. A
-                      11-13-2001  91.01,
                                   Ch. 71, App. A
116.00                 11-13-2001  110.20 -
                                   110.25
19.01                  11-13-2001  96.05,
                                   96.06
29.03                  11-13-2001  111.01 -
                                   111.07
                                   92.01 -
29.04                  11-13-2001  92.07,
                                   92.99
25.10                  1-8-2001    TSO I
-                      5-14-2002   131.99,
                                   132.99
111                    5-14-2002   110.01 -
                                   110.07
                                   90.01 -
117                    5-14-2002   90.05,
                                   90.99
14.02.01               2-11-2003   70.01 -
                                   70.07
-                      10-12-2004  150.179
118.00                 6-14-2005   30.01 -
                                   30.07
119.00                 6-14-2005   30.20 -
                                   30.25
13.01                  1-10-2006   50.25,
                                   50.99
-, Article I, § 1.1   9-12-2006   150.001
-, Article I, § 1.2   9-12-2006   150.002
-, Article I, § 1.3   9-12-2006   150.003
-, Article II, § 2.1  9-12-2006   150.004
-, Article II, § 2.2  9-12-2006   150.005
-, Article IX, § 9    9-12-2006   150.006
-, Article III, § 3.1 9-12-2006   150.020
-, Article III, § 3.2 9-12-2006   150.021
-, Article III, § 3.3 9-12-2006   150.022
-, Art. IV             9-12-2006   150.035
-, Article IV, § 4.1  9-12-2006   150.050
-, Article IV, § 4.1.19-12-2006   150.051
-, Article IV, § 4.2  9-12-2006   150.065
-, Article IV, § 4.2.19-12-2006   150.066
-, Article IV, § 4.2.29-12-2006   150.067
-, Article IV, § 4.2.39-12-2006   150.068
-, Article IV, § 4.2.49-12-2006   150.069
-, Article IV, § 4.2.59-12-2006   150.070
-, Article IV, § 4.2.69-12-2006   150.071
-, Article IV, § 4.2.79-12-2006   150.072
-, Article IV, § 4.3  9-12-2006   150.085
-, Article IV, § 4.4  9-12-2006   150.100
-, Article IV, § 4.4.19-12-2006   150.101
-, Article IV, § 4.4.29-12-2006   150.102
-, Article IV, § 4.4.39-12-2006   150.103
-, Article IV, § 4.5  9-12-2006   150.115
-, Article IV, § 4.5.19-12-2006   150.116
-, Article IV, § 4.5.29-12-2006   150.117
-, Article IV, § 4.6  9-12-2006   150.130
-, Article IV, § 4.6.19-12-2006   150.131
-, Article IV, § 4.6.29-12-2006   150.132
-, Article IV, § 4.6.39-12-2006   150.133
-, Article IV, § 4.6.49-12-2006   150.134
-, Article IV, § 4.7.19-12-2006   150.145
-, Article IV, § 4.7.29-12-2006   150.146
-, Article IV, § 4.7.39-12-2006   150.147
-, Article IV, § 4.7.49-12-2006   150.148
-, Article IV, § 4.7.59-12-2006   150.149
-, Article IV, § 4.7.69-12-2006   150.150
-, Article IV, § 4.7.79-12-2006   150.151
-, Article IV, § 4.7.89-12-2006   150.152
-, Article IV, § 4.7.99-12-2006   150.153
-, Article V, § 5.1   9-12-2006   150.165
-, Article V, § 5.2.1 9-12-2006   150.190
-, Article V, § 5.2.2 9-12-2006   150.191
-, Article V, § 5.2.3 9-12-2006   150.192
-, Article V, § 5.2.4 9-12-2006   150.193
-, Article V, § 5.2.5 9-12-2006   150.194
-, Article V, § 5.2.6 9-12-2006   150.195
-, Article V, § 5.2.7 9-12-2006   150.196
-, Article V, § 5.2.8 9-12-2006   150.197
-, Article V, § 5.2.9 9-12-2006   150.198
-, Article V, § 5.2.109-12-2006   150.199
-, Article V, § 5.2.119-12-2006   150.201
-, Article V, § 5.2.129-12-2006   150.202
-, Article V, § 5.2.139-12-2006   150.203
-, Article V, § 5.2.149-12-2006   150.204
-, Article V, § 5.3   9-12-2006   150.215
-, Article V, § 5.3.1 9-12-2006   150.216
-, Article V, § 5.3.2 9-12-2006   150.217
-, Article V, § 5.3.3 9-12-2006   150.218
-, Article V, § 5.3.4 9-12-2006   150.219
-, Article V, § 5.3.5 9-12-2006   150.220
-, Article V, § 5.3.6 9-12-2006   150.221
-, Article V, § 5.3.7 9-12-2006   150.222
-, Article V, § 5.3.8 9-12-2006   150.223
-, Article V, § 5.3.9 9-12-2006   150.224
-, Article V, § 5.4   9-12-2006   150.235
-, Article V, § 5.4.1 9-12-2006   150.236
-, Article V, § 5.4.2 9-12-2006   150.237
-, Article V, § 5.4.3 9-12-2006   150.238
-, Article V, § 5.5   9-12-2006   150.250
-, Article V, § 5.5.1 9-12-2006   150.251
-, Article V, § 5.5.2 9-12-2006   150.252
-, Article V, § 5.5.3 9-12-2006   150.253
-, Article V, § 5.5.4 9-12-2006   150.254
-, Article V, § 5.5.5 9-12-2006   150.255
-, Article V, § 5.5.6 9-12-2006   150.256
-, Article V, § 5.5.7 9-12-2006   150.257
-, Article V, § 5.6   9-12-2006   150.270
-, Article V, § 5.6.1 9-12-2006   150.271
-, Article V, § 5.6.2 9-12-2006   150.272
-, Article V, § 5.6.3 9-12-2006   150.273
-, Article V, § 5.6.4 9-12-2006   150.274
-, Article V, § 5.6.5 9-12-2006   150.275
-, Article V, § 5.6.6 9-12-2006   150.276
-, Article V, § 5.6.7 9-12-2006   150.277
-, Article V, § 5.6.8 9-12-2006   150.278
-, Article V, § 5.6.9 9-12-2006   150.279
-, Article V, § 5.6.109-12-2006   150.280
-, Article V, § 5.6.119-12-2006   150.281
-, Article V, § 5.6.129-12-2006   150.282
-, Article V, § 5.7   9-12-2006   150.295
-, Article V, § 5.7.1 9-12-2006   150.296
-, Article V, § 5.7.2 9-12-2006   150.297
-, Article V, § 5.7.3 9-12-2006   150.298
-, Article V, § 5.7.4 9-12-2006   150.299
-, Article V, § 5.7.5 9-12-2006   150.300
-, Article V, § 5.8.1 9-12-2006   150.315
-, Article V, § 5.8.2 9-12-2006   150.316
-, Article V, § 5.8.3 9-12-2006   150.317
-, Article V, § 5.9   9-12-2006   150.166
-, Article V, § 5.10  9-12-2006   150.167
-, Article V, § 5.11  9-12-2006   150.168
-, Article V, § 5.12  9-12-2006   150.169
-, Article V, § 5.13  9-12-2006   150.170
-, Article V, § 5.14  9-12-2006   150.171
-, Article V, § 5.15  9-12-2006   150.172
-, Article V, § 5.16  9-12-2006   150.173
-, Article V, § 5.17  9-12-2006   150.174
-, Article V, § 5.18  9-12-2006   150.175
-, Article V, § 5.19  9-12-2006   150.176
-, Article V, § 5.20  9-12-2006   150.330
-, Article V, § 5.20  9-12-2006   150.384
-, Article V, § 5.20.19-12-2006   150.331
-, Article V, § 5.20.29-12-2006   150.332
-, Article V, § 5.21  9-12-2006   150.177
-, Article V, § 5.22  9-12-2006   150.178
-, Article VI, § 6.1  9-12-2006   150.345
-, Article VI, § 6.2  9-12-2006   150.346
-, Article VI, § 6.3  9-12-2006   150.347
-, Article VI, § 6.4  9-12-2006   150.348
-, Article VI, § 6.5  9-12-2006   150.349
-, Article VI, § 6.6  9-12-2006   150.350
-, Article VI, § 6.7  9-12-2006   150.351
-, Article VI, § 6.8  9-12-2006   150.352
-, Article VII, § 7.1 9-12-2006   150.365
-, Article VII, § 7.2 9-12-2006   150.366
-, Article VII, § 7.3 9-12-2006   150.367
-, Article VII, § 7.4 9-12-2006   150.368
-, Article VII, § 7.5 9-12-2006   150.369
-, Article VIII, § 8.19-12-2006   150.380
-, Article VIII, § 8.29-12-2006   150.381
-, Article VIII, § 8.39-12-2006   150.382
-, Article VIII, § 8.49-12-2006   150.383
-, Article VIII, § 8.59-12-2006   150.384
-, Article IX, § 9    9-12-2006   150.384
-, Article X, § 10.1  9-12-2006   150.007
-, Article X, § 10.5  9-12-2006   150.008
-                      2-13-2007   50.08 -
                                   50.12
                                   94.01 -
6.02                   1-8-2008    94.14,
                                   94.99
                                   90.99,
                                   93.99,
                                   95.99,
                                   96.99 
                                   111.99,
                                   151.03,
                                   151.05,
                                   151.06,
                                   151.10,
-                      3-25-2008   151.99,
                                   152.99,
                                   153.01 -
                                   153.09,
                                   153.20 -
                                   153.22,
                                   153.30 -
                                   153.39,
                                   154.01,
                                   TSO III
120                    9-9-2008    Adopting Ordinance
-                      9-9-2008    30.02
-                      9-9-2008    110.99
                                   151.20 -
28.01                  9-9-2008    151.23,
                                   151.99
121.00                 1-13-2009   150.395 -
                                   150.407
-                      1-12-2010   150.170
-                      2-8-2011    50.25
-                      3-21-2012   97.01
-                      10-9-2012   96.05
-                      11-13-2012  50.09
                                   150.006,
-                      - -         150.145,
                                   150.180
                                   150.006,
-                      - -         150.145,
                                   150.257
-                      - -         150.190 -
                                   150.204
-                      11-18-2014  150.006
-                      1-12-2016   150.006,
                                   150.145
                                   150.153,
-                      3-28-2017   150.173,
                                   150.219,
                                   150.276
115.03                 5-9-2017    152.03
                                   150.006,
122                    5-9-2017    150.180,
                                   150.999
123                    3-27-2018   132.45,
                                   132.99
18.04                  6-12-2018   132.99
                                   150.006,
-                      11-13-2018  150.145,
                                   150.180,
                                   150.257
                                   112.01 -
-                      12-11-2018  112.04,
                                   112.99
-                      12-11-2018  131.03
                                   150.150,
-                      9-17-2019   150.151 ,
                                   150.146
                                   155.01 -
155                    12-10-2019  155.04 ,
                                   155.99
157                    11-9-2021   133.43
159                    11-9-2021   133.51
156                    11-19-2021  132.55
                                   130.01 -
                                   130.05,
                                   130.07,
                                   130.99,
29.05                  1-11-2022   131.02,
                                   131.04,
                                   131.10,
                                   131.99,
                                   132.55,
                                   132.99
-                      5-10-2022   156.01 -
                                   156.09
                                   157.01 -
161                    6-14-2022   157.12,
                                   157.98,
                                   157.99
                                   110.20 -
116.00                 11-15-2022  110.25,
                                   110.99
162                    11-15-2022  97.05,
                                   97.98
                                   95.01 -
                                   95.06,
20.04                  11-15-2022  95.50,
                                   95.55,
                                   130.03
                                   111.01,
29.05                  11-15-2022  111.20,
                                   111.99
                                   130.03,
                                   133.01,
                                   133.02,
                                   133.10,
                                   133.11,
                                   133.20,
                                   133.23,
                                   133.25,
                                   133.30,
164                    12-13-2022  133.35,
                                   133.40 -
                                   133.42,
                                   133.50,
                                   133.51,
                                   133.55,
                                   133.60,
                                   133.65,
                                   133.80,
                                   133.95 -
                                   133.99
                                  
 
