VILLAGE OF THREE OAKS, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2019 S-2, current through
Ordinance 218, passed 6-12-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Village of Three
Oaks Code.”
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE.  The Village of Three Oaks Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Berrien, Michigan.
      JUVENILE.  Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR.  A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE.  Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Three Oaks, Michigan.”  Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer
of the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES.  The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON.  Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE.  The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
§ 10.03  SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. 
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village, any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to re-zoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature;  and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Village Comptroller’s office.
§ 10.05  CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Village of Three
Oaks Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall
then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Village of Three Oaks Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads
as follows:...”  The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become
obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that,
when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the
adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code.  For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____  to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL AND VILLAGE PRESIDENT
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   BUDGET SYSTEM
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE COUNCIL AND VILLAGE PRESIDENT
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of President and members of Village Council
§ 30.01  COMPENSATION OF PRESIDENT AND MEMBERS OF VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The President of the village shall be paid the sum of $175 per month, and
each member of the Village Council shall be paid the sum of $100 per month for
serving in such capacity during their term of office, such payments to be made
out of the General Fund. Said officers shall receive no other compensation for
services performed for, or on behalf of, said village during their term of
office.
(Ord. 120, passed 3-13-1996)
CHAPTER 31:  VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Village Manager
   
31.02   Village Clerk
   
31.03   Village Treasurer
§ 31.01  VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of a Village Manager granted to the village in Public Act 3 of
1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 62.2 and 65.8 as amended, the office of Village Manager is
established.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Manager. The President shall, with the
concurrence of a majority of the Village Council, appoint a Village Manager.
The Village Council may enter into an employment contract with a Village
Manager for a period extending beyond the terms of the members of Village
Council but not exceeding six years. An employment contract with a Village
Manager shall be in writing and shall specify the compensation to be paid to
the Village Manager, any procedure for changing compensation, any fringe
benefits and any other conditions of employment. The contract shall state that
the Village Manager serves at the pleasure of the Village Council. The contract
may provide for severance pay or other benefits in the event the employment of
the Village Manager is terminated by the Village Council. The Village Manager
shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Council and may be removed by a
majority of the Village Council. The Village Manager shall be selected solely
on the basis of administrative and executive abilities, with special reference
to training and experience.
   (C)   Acting Village Manager. The President, with the concurrence of a
majority of the Trustees, shall appoint or designate an Acting Village Manager
during a vacancy in the office of Village Manager and shall make a permanent
appointment within 180 days from the effective date of the vacancy.
   (D)   Compensation. The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as
the Village Council shall determine by resolution or ordinance.
   (E)   Duties. The Village Manager shall be the chief administrative officer
of the village and shall be responsible to the Village Council for the
efficient administration of all affairs of the village and shall exercise
management supervision over all departments and over all public property
belonging to the village. The Village Manager shall have the following
functions and duties:
      (1)   Attend and participate in all meetings of the Village Council and
committees but shall not have a vote on such Village Council or committees;
      (2)   Be responsible for personnel management and shall issue, subject to
Village Council approval, personnel rules applicable to all village employees.
The Village Manager shall have the following responsibilities:
         (a)   To appoint, suspend or remove all appointed administrative
officers and department heads, subject to Village Council approval. The Village
Manager shall recommend to the Village Council the salary or wage for each such
official; and
         (b)   To appoint, suspend or remove all other employees of the
village. The Village Manager shall determine the salary for each such employee
subject to Village Council approval.
      (3)   Exercise supervisory control over all departments including the
Police Department and the Department of Public Works;
      (4)   Exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting, budgeting,
personnel, purchasing and related management functions of the Village Clerk and
Village Treasurer;
      (5)   Shall be authorized to attend all meetings of village boards and
commissions including the Village Planning Commission with the right to take
part but shall not have a vote;
      (6)   Prepare and administer the budget as provided for in the Uniform
Budgeting and Accounting Act, Public Act 2 of 1968, M.C.L.A. §§ 141.421 to
141.440a as amended, and any village ordinance that may be adopted;
      (7)   Be the purchasing agent of the village;
      (8)   Prepare and maintain written policies and procedures defining the
duties and functions of the several officers and departments of the village,
subject to the approval by the Village Council;
      (9)   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
village, and shall have authority at all times to inspect the books, records
and papers of any agent, employee or officer of the village;
      (10)   Make recommendations to the Village Council for the adoption of
such measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the improvement or
betterment of the village; and
      (11)   Perform other duties required from time to time by the Village
Council.
   (F)   Purchasing responsibilities. The Village Manager shall act as
purchasing agent for all village offices and departments. The Village Manager
may delegate some or all of the duties as purchasing agent to another officer
or employee provided that such delegation shall not relieve the Village Manager
of the responsibility for the proper conduct of those duties.
      (1)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any
product or service the cost of which does not exceed $2,500, provided that
funds have been appropriated. The cost of the product or service shall not
exceed the unencumbered balance of the appropriation for that account. Any
product or service the cost of which exceeds the above dollar amount shall be
purchased only if prior approval of the Village Council has been obtained. The
Village Manager may promulgate rules governing the purchase of products or
services.
      (2)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any
product or service regardless of its cost when such purchase is necessitated by
an emergency condition. EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean any event, which
presents an imminent threat to the public health or safety or any event which
would result in the disruption of a village service which is essential to the
public health or safety.
   (G)   Dealing with employees. Neither the Village Council nor the Village
President shall attempt to influence the employment of any person by the
Village Manager or in any way interfere in the management of departments under
the jurisdiction of the Village Manager. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the
Village President and Village Council and its members shall deal with
departments under the jurisdiction of the Village Manager through the Village
Manager.
(Ord. 178, passed 11-20-2008)
§ 31.02  VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of such village officers as the Village Council shall deem
necessary for the execution of the powers granted to the village contained in
Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. § 62.1, as amended, there is hereby established
the office of the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk is an administrative officer
of the village.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Clerk. The Village President shall appoint the
Village Clerk, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the Village
Council. The Village Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the Village President
and may upon recommendation of the Village President, be removed by the
affirmative vote of a majority vote of the Village Council, but only after a
hearing before the Village Council. The Village Clerk will report and be
responsible to the Village President for the official functions and activities
of the Village Clerk’s position and for the day-to-day operations of the
office, except as otherwise provided by state law. The Village Clerk shall be
selected on the basis of administrative and technical abilities.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office of the Village Clerk shall be two
years from the second Monday of March of each even-numbered year and until a
successor is appointed.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Clerk shall possess all the powers vested in, and
shall be charged with the duties imposed upon, clerks by state law.
      (1)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall perform all other such duties
in the manner prescribed by the General Law Village Act of the state, Public
Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq., the ordinances of the village or by
state law.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned or prescribed by state law, ordinances of the village or resolutions
of the Village Council.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall:
         (a)   Be the Clerk of the Council and keep a permanent journal of its
proceedings;
         (b)   Keep a record of all ordinances, resolutions and actions of the
Council;
         (c)   Have power to administer all oaths required by state law and
ordinances of the village;
         (d)   Be custodian of the village seal, and affix it to all documents
and instruments requiring the seal and shall attest the same;
         (e)   Be custodian of all papers, documents and records pertaining to
the village, the custody of which is not otherwise provided for;
         (f)   Give the proper officials of the village reasonable notice of
the expiration or termination of any official bonds, franchises, contracts or
agreements;
         (g)   Issue and sign all licenses granted after the license fee has
been paid to the Treasurer and register the same;
         (h)   Certify by signature all ordinances and resolutions enacted or
passed by the Council;
         (i)   Conduct elections in accordance with the General Law Village Act
of the state, Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq. and state election
law;
         (j)   Be the general accountant of the village and maintain a system
of accounts which conform to such uniform system as may be required by state
law; and
         (k)   Publish and post notices of the village as required by state law
and ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 153, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 31.03  VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of such village officers as the Council shall deem necessary for
the execution of the powers granted to the village contained in Public Act 3 of
1895, M.C.L.A. § 62.1, as amended, there is hereby established the office of
the Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer is an administrative officer of
the village.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Treasurer.  The Village President shall appoint
the Village Treasurer, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the
Village Council. The Village Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the
Village President and may, upon recommendation of the Village President, be
removed by the affirmative vote of a majority vote of the Village Council, but
only after a hearing before the Village Council. The Village Treasurer will
report and be responsible to the Village President for the official functions
and activities of the Village Treasurer’s position and for the day-to-day
operations of the office, except as otherwise provided by state law. The
Village Treasurer shall be selected on the basis of administrative and
technical abilities.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of office of the Village Treasurer shall be
two years from the second Monday of March of each even-numbered year and until
a successor is appointed.
   (D)   Duties. The Village Treasurer shall possess all the powers vested in,
and shall be charged with all the duties imposed upon, treasurers by state law.
      (1)   In addition, the Village Treasurer shall perform all other such
duties in the manner prescribed by the General Law Village Act of the state,
Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq., the ordinances of the village
or by state law.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned or prescribed by state law, ordinances of the village or resolutions
of the Village Council.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall:
         (a)   Have custody of all monies of the village and all evidence of
value belonging to the village, or held in trust by the village;
         (b)   Receive all monies belonging to and receivable by the village,
that may be collected by any officials or employees of the village, including
license fees, taxes, assessments, utility charges  and all other charges
belonging to and payable to the village,
  and in all cases give a receipt therefor;
         (c)   Keep and deposit all monies or funds in such manner and only in
such places as may be determined and report the same in detail to the Village
President and in accordance with the General Law Village Act of the state,
Public Act 3 of 1895, M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq., state law, ordinances and
policies;
         (d)   Have such powers, duties and prerogatives as are conferred by
law to enforce the collection of state, county, village and school taxes upon
real and personal property;
         (e)   Have custody of all investments and invested funds of the
village or in its possession in a fiduciary capacity; and
         (f)   Safely keep all bonds and notes of the village.
(Ord. 138, passed 11-8-2000)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Planning Commission
   
32.02   Village/Township Fire Department
Cross-reference:
   Governing Board of Downtown Development Authority, see §§
151.15 through
151.19
   Park and Recreation Board, see §§
93.01 through
93.05
   Parking Violations Bureau, see §§
72.01 through
72.06
§ 32.01  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Scope, purpose and intent. This section is adopted pursuant to the
authority granted the Village Council under the State Planning Enabling Act,
Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the State Zoning
Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to
establish a Planning Commission with the powers, duties and limitations
provided by those Acts and subject to the terms and conditions of this section
and any future amendments to this section. The purpose of this section is to
provide that the Village Council shall hereby confirm the establishment under
the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., of the Planning Commission formerly established under Public
Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45, to establish the
appointments, terms and membership of the Planning Commission; to identify the
officers and the minimum number of meetings per year of the Planning
Commission; and to prescribe the authority, powers and duties of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Establishment. The Village Council hereby confirms the establishment
under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq., of the Planning Commission formerly established under Public
Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45. The Planning
Commission shall have seven members. Members of the Planning Commission as of
the effective date of this section shall, except for an ex officio member whose
remaining term on the Planning Commission shall be limited to his or her term
on the Village Council, continue to serve for the remainder of their existing
terms so long as they continue to meet all of the eligibility requirements for
Planning Commission membership set forth within the State Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801. et seq.
   (C)   Appointments and terms. The Village President, with the approval of
the Village Council by a majority vote of the members elected and serving,
shall appoint all Planning Commission members, including the ex officio member.
      (1)   The Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio member,
shall serve for terms of three years each.
      (2)   A Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment.
      (3)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
village, except that one Planning Commission member may be an individual who is
not a qualified elector of the village but who is a qualified elector of
another local unit of government. The membership of the Planning Commission
shall be representative of important segments of the community, such as the
economic, governmental, educational and social development of the village, in
accordance with the major interests as they exist in the village, such as
agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry and commerce. The membership shall also be
representative of the entire territory of the village to the extent
practicable.
      (4)   One member of the Village Council shall be appointed to the
Planning Commission as an ex officio member.
      (5)   An ex officio member has full voting rights. An ex officio member’s
term on the Planning Commission shall expire with his or her term on the
Village Council.
      (6)   No other elected officer or employee of the village is eligible to
be a member of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Removal. The Village Council may remove a member of the Planning
Commission for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written
charges and after a public hearing.
   (E)   Compensation.  The Planning Commission members may be compensated for
their services as provided by Village Council resolution. The Planning
Commission may adopt bylaws relative to compensation and expenses of its
members for travel when engaged in the performance of activities authorized by
the Village Council, including, but not limited to, attendance at conferences,
workshops, educational and training programs and meetings.
   (F)   Officers and committees. The Planning Commission shall elect a
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members, and may create and fill other
offices as it considers advisable.
      (1)   An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to
serve as Chairperson. The term of each office shall be one year, with
opportunity for reelection as specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may also appoint advisory committees whose
members are not members of the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Bylaws, meetings and records. The Planning Commission shall adopt
bylaws and rules of procedure for the transaction of business.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular meetings
each year, and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the
meetings.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission’s bylaws, a
special meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or
by three other members, upon written request to the Secretary. Unless the
bylaws otherwise provide, the Secretary shall send written notice of a special
meeting to Planning Commission members at least 48 hours before the meeting.
      (3)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations. A writing prepared,
owned, used, in the possession of or retained by a Planning Commission in the
performance of an official function shall be made available to the public in
compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
   (H)   Annual report. The Planning Commission shall make an annual written
report to the Village Council concerning its operations and the status of the
planning activities, including recommendations regarding actions by the Village
Council related to planning and development.
   (I)   Authority to make master plan. Under the authority of the State
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq. and other applicable planning statutes, the Planning Commission shall make
a master plan as a guide for development within the village’s planning
jurisdiction.
      (1)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Planning Commission unless the Village Council passes a
resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the master plan.
      (2)   Unless rescinded by the village, any plan adopted or amended under
Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq., need not be readopted
under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq.
   (J)   Zoning powers. The Village Council hereby confirms the transfer of all
powers, duties and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning
commissions by the former City and Village Planning Act, Public Act 207 of
1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 et seq.; the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public
Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. or other applicable zoning
statutes to the Planning Commission formerly established under Public Act 285
of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.
   (K)   Capital improvements program. To further the desirable future
development of the village under the master plan, the Village Council, after
the master plan is adopted, shall prepare or cause to be prepared by the
Village President or by a designated nonelected administrative official, a
capital improvements program of public structures and improvements, showing
those structures and improvements in general order of their priority, for the
following six-year period. The prepared capital improvements program, if
prepared by someone other than the Village Council, shall be subject to final
approval by the Village Council. The Planning Commission is hereby exempted
from preparing a capital improvements plan.
   (L)   Subdivision and land division recommendations. The Planning Commission
may recommend to the Village Council provisions of an ordinance or rules
governing the subdivision of land.
      (1)   Before recommending such an ordinance or rule, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance or rule. The
Planning Commission shall give notice of the time and place of the public
hearing not less than 15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation within the village.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Village Council under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. Before
making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall contain
the name and address of the proprietor or other person to whom notice of a
hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing,
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing shall be sent to that person
at that address by mail and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed platted land.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-8-2011)
§ 32.02  VILLAGE/TOWNSHIP FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. Three Oaks Township and Three Oaks Village, both of Berrien
County, Michigan, have heretofore by written agreement established pursuant to
Public Act 33 of 1951, M.C.L.A. §§ 48.801 to 48.813, as amended, a Fire
Administrative Board.
      (1)   This section is adopted for the purpose of providing financial
assistance to the township, the village and the Fire Administrative Board in
the operation of a Fire Department from those receiving direct benefits from
the fire protection services.
      (2)   It is the further purpose of this section to provide for full
funding of the Fire Department operation which remains, in part, an at-large
governmental expense based upon the general benefits derived by all property
owners within the township and the village from the existence of a Village/
Township Fire Department and its availability to extinguish fires within the
township and village and perform other emergency services.
   (B)   Charges. The following charges will be based on a time per-hour:
firefighter, equipment ($250/hr/truck) and the fair value of material used.
      (1)   The charges shall hereafter be due payable to the Fire
Administrative Board from a recipient of any of the following enumerated
services from the Village/Township Fire Department:
         (a)   Grass fire;
         (b)   Rubbish fire;
         (c)   Automobile fire;
         (d)   House/garage/barn fire;
         (e)   Fire in a commercial establishment;
         (f)   Fire in a industrial or manufacturing establishment;
         (g)   Fire in a multiple-family building;
         (h)   Hotel or motel fire;
         (i)   Aircraft fire;
         (j)   Train fire;
         (k)   Truck fire;
         (l)   Forest fire;
         (m)   Emergency rescue service;
         (n)   Resuscitator service;
         (o)   Swimming pool service;
         (p)   Hazards material service;
         (q)   False alarms; and
         (r)   Other services not specifically enumerated herein.
      (2)   Charges set out in this section and the exemptions therefrom set
out in division (D) below may be determined or adjusted from time to time by
resolution of the Township Board and the Village Council, and such adjustments
shall not require a formal amendment to this section.
   (C)   Time for payment. All of the foregoing charges shall be due and
payable to the Fire Administrative Board within 30 days after the date the
service is rendered and in default of payment shall be collectible as provided
herein.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following properties and services shall be exempt from
the foregoing charges:
      (1)   Fires caused by railroad trains which are the specific statutory of
railroad companies;
      (2)   Fires involving village and township buildings, grounds and/or
property; and
      (3)   Fire service performed outside the jurisdiction of the township or
village under a mutual aid contract with an adjoining municipality.
   (E)   Collection of charges. The Fire Administrative Board is hereby
delegated the authority and responsibility for billing and collecting charges
and may proceed in district court to collect any monies remaining unpaid and
shall pursue any and all other remedies provided by law for the collection of
said charges.
   (F)   Non-exclusive charge. The foregoing rates and charges shall not be
exclusive of the charges that may be made by the Fire Administrative Board for
the cost and expense of maintaining a Fire Department, but shall only be
supplemental thereto. Charges may additionally be collected by the village and
the township through general taxation by procedures provided by law or by a
special assessment established as provided by law. General Fund appropriations
may also be made to cover such additional costs and expenses.
   (G)   Multiple property protection. When a particular service rendered by
the Village/Township Fire Department directly benefits more than one person or
property, the owner of each property so benefitted and each person so
benefitted where property protection is not involved shall be liable for the
payment of the full charge for such service herein before outlined. The
interpretation and application of this section is hereby delegated to the
Village/Township Fire Chief subject only to appeal, within the time limits
provided herein for payment, to the Fire Administrative Board and shall be
administered so that charges shall only be collected from persons and property
who benefit from the service.
(Ord. 134, passed 8-11-1999)
CHAPTER 33:  BUDGET SYSTEM
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Fiscal year
   
33.03   Chief Administrative Officer and Fiscal Officer
   
33.04   Budget policy statement
   
33.05   Budget estimates required
   
33.06   Budget forms
   
33.07   Department budget review
   
33.08   The budget document
   
33.09   Transmittal of budget to Village Council
   
33.10   Consideration of budget by Village Council
   
33.11   Passage of budget resolution
   
33.12   Procedure for disbursements
   
33.13   Limit on obligations and payments
   
33.14   Periodic finance reports
   
33.15   Transfers
   
33.16   Supplemental appropriations
   
33.17   Appropriation adjustment required
   
33.18   Violation may be cause for removal from office
§ 33.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Budget Chapter.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.02  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on October 1 in each year and
close on September 30.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.03  CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER AND FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Village President shall be the Chief Administrative Officer referred to
in this chapter and shall be responsible for the performance of the duties of
that officer enumerated in this chapter. The President may appoint a Fiscal
Officer and delegate to that officer any or all of the budgeting duties
specified in §§
33.05 through
33.08. The Fiscal Officer shall be responsible to the Chief Administrative
Officer for the performance of budgetary duties. The Fiscal Officer so
appointed shall be a member of the Village Council or the Village Manager.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 191, passed 5-11-2011)
§ 33.04  BUDGET POLICY STATEMENT.
   No later than May 1 of each year, the Chief Administrative Officer shall
send to each officer, department, committee, commission and board of the
Village a budget policy statement for the use of those agencies in preparing
their estimates of budgetary requirements for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.05  BUDGET ESTIMATES REQUIRED.
   Any officers, elected or appointed, departments, committees, commissions and
boards of the village financed in whole or in part by the village shall, on or
before June 1 of each year, transmit to the Chief Administrative Officer their
estimates of the accounts of money required for each activity in their agencies
for the ensuring fiscal year. They shall also submit any other information
deemed relevant by the Chief Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.06  BUDGET FORMS.
   The Chief Administrative Officer shall prescribe forms to be used in
submitting budget estimates and shall prescribe the procedures deemed necessary
for the guidance of officials in preparing such budget estimates. The Chief
Administrative Officer may also require a statement of the purposes of any
proposed expenditure and a justification of the services financed by any
expenditure.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.07  DEPARTMENT BUDGET REVIEW.
   The Chief Administrative Officer shall review the department estimates with
a representative or representatives from each department. The purpose of the
review shall be to clarify the estimates, ensure their accuracy and determine
their adherence to the policies enumerated by the Chief Administrative Officer
pursuant to §
33.04.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.08  THE BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   (A)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall prepare a budget, which shall
present a complete financial plan for the ensuing year, utilizing those
estimates received from the various agencies.
   (B)   The budget will be prepared in such a manner that shall assure that
the total of estimated expenditures including an accrued deficit in any fund
does not exceed the total of expected revenues including an unappropriated
surplus.
   (C)   The budget shall consist of the following parts:
      (1)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for the ensuing
fiscal year for each department and office of the village showing the
expenditures for the corresponding items for the current and last preceding
fiscal year;
      (2)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the village,
showing the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
      (3)   An estimate of the amount of surplus expected in the current fiscal
year; and
      (4)   An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the village which will
be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures and commitments during the
ensuing fiscal year. This should included:
         (a)   Sources other than taxes;
         (b)   Income from borrowing;
         (c)   Current and delinquent taxes; and
         (d)   Bond issues.
   (D)   Included in this estimate shall be:
      (1)   Corresponding figures for the current and preceding fiscal year;
      (2)   Such other supporting schedules as the Council may deem necessary;
and
      (3)   An informative summary of projected revenues and expenditures of
any special assessment funds, public improvement or building and site funds,
intragovernmental service funds or enterprise funds, including the estimated
total cost and proposed method of financing each capital construction project
and the projected additional annual operating cost and the method of financing
the operating costs of each capital construction project for three years beyond
the fiscal year covered by the budget.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.09  TRANSMITTAL OF BUDGET TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   No later than July 1 of each year, the Chief Administrative Officer
shall transmit the budget to the Village Council.
   (B)   The budget shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A draft resolution for adoption by the Council, consistent with the
budget, which shall set forth the anticipated revenue and requested expenditure
authority for the ensuing fiscal year in such form and in such detail deemed
appropriate by the Chief Administrative Officer, provided that it is consistent
with the uniform chart of accounts prescribed the state. No budget resolution
shall be submitted to the Council in which estimated total expenditures,
including an accrued deficit, exceed estimated total revenues, including an
available surplus; and
      (2)   A budget message which shall explain the reason for increases or
decreases in budgeted items compared with the current fiscal year, the policy
of the Chief Administrative Officer as it relates to important budgetary items,
and any other information that the Chief Administrative Officer determines to
be useful to the Council in its consideration of the proposed budget.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.10  CONSIDERATION OF BUDGET BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Village Council shall fix the time and place of a public hearing
to be held on the budget and proposed budget resolution. The Village Clerk
shall then have published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village, notice of the hearing and an indication of the place at which the
budget and proposed budget resolution may be inspected by the public. This
notice must be published at least seven days before the date of hearing.
   (B)   The Village Council may direct the Chief Administrative Officer to
submit any additional information it deems relevant in its consideration of the
budget and proposed budget resolution. The Village Council may conduct
budgetary reviews with the Chief Administrative Officer for the purpose of
clarification or justification of proposed budgetary items.
   (C)   The Village Council may revise, alter or substitute for the proposed
general budget resolution in any way, except that it may not change it in a way
that would cause total appropriations, including an accrued deficit, to exceed
total estimated revenues, including an unappropriated surplus. An accrued
deficit shall be the first item of expenditure in the general appropriations
measure.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.11  PASSAGE OF BUDGET RESOLUTION.
   (A)   No later than the second Wednesday of September, the Village Council
shall pass a resolution providing the authority to make expenditures and incur
obligations on behalf of the village.
   (B)   The Village Council may authorize transfers between appropriation
items by the Chief Administrative Officer within limits stated in the
resolution. In no case, however, may such limits stated in the resolution or
motion exceed those provided for in §
33.16.
   (C)   The village budget may include information concerning the amount of
tax levy expected to be required to raise those sums of money included in the
budget resolution. In conformance with state law, and at such times as the
Village Council shall determine to be appropriate, the Village Council shall
order to be raised by taxation those sums of money necessary to defray the
expenditures and meet the liabilities of the village for the fiscal year. The
Village Council may take such action after the value of the property in the
village as finally equalized has been determined.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 169, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 33.12  PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   No money shall be drawn from the village treasury unless the Village
Council has approved the annual budget.
   (B)   Each warrant, draft or contract of the village shall specify the fund
and appropriation, designated by a number assigned in the accounting system
classification established pursuant to law, from which it is payable and shall
be paid from no other fund or appropriation.
   (C)   Expenditures shall not be charged directly to any contingent or
general account. Instead, the necessary amount of the appropriation from such
account shall be transferred pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to the
appropriate general appropriation account and the expenditure then charged to
the account.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.13  LIMIT ON OBLIGATIONS AND PAYMENTS.
   No obligation shall be incurred against, and no payment shall be made from,
any appropriation account adopted by the budget resolution unless there is a
sufficient unencumbered balance in the account and sufficient funds are or will
be available to meet the obligation.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.14  PERIODIC FINANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall require the appropriate
agencies to prepare and transmit to him or her a monthly a report of village
financial obligations, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A summary statement of the actual financial condition of the
General Fund at the end of the previous month;
      (2)   Summary statement showing the receipts and expenditures and
encumbrances for the previous month and for the then current fiscal year to the
end of the previous month;
      (3)   A detailed listing of the expected revenues by major sources as
estimated in the budget, actual receipts to date for the current fiscal year,
the balance of estimated revenues to be collected in the current fiscal year
and any revisions in revenue estimates occasioned by collection experience to
date; and
      (4)   A detailed listing for each organizational unit and activity of the
amount appropriated, the amount charged to each appropriation in the previous
month and for the current fiscal year to date, and the unencumbered balance of
appropriations and any revisions in the estimate of expenditures.
   (B)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall transmit the above information
to the Village Council on a monthly basis, but not later than 48 hours prior to
the regularly scheduled monthly Village Council meeting.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.15  TRANSFERS.
   Transfers of any unencumbered balance, or any portion, in any appropriation
account to any other appropriation account may not be made without amendment of
the budget resolution as provided in this chapter, except that transfers within
a fund and department may be made by the Chief Administrative Officer within
limits set by the budget resolution.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.16  SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Council may make supplemental appropriations by amending
the original budget resolution as provided in this chapter, provided that
revenues in excess of those anticipated in the original resolution become
available due to:
      (1)   An unobligated surplus from prior years becoming available; and/or
      (2)   Current fiscal year revenue exceeding original estimates in amounts
great enough to finance the increased appropriations.
   (B)   The Village Council may make a supplemental appropriation by
increasing the dollar amount of an appropriation item in the original budget
resolution or by adding additional items. At the same time, the estimated
amount from the source of revenue to which the increase in revenue may be
attributed shall be increased or a new source and amount added in a sum
sufficient to equal the supplemented expenditure amount. In no case may such
appropriations cause total estimated expenditures, including an accrued
deficit, to exceed total estimated revenues, including an unappropriated
surplus.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.17  APPROPRIATION ADJUSTMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever it appears to the Chief Administrative Officer or the Village
Council that actual and probable revenues in any fund will be less than the
estimated revenues upon which appropriations from such fund were based, the
Chief Administrative Officer shall present to the Village Council
recommendations, which, if adopted, will prevent expenditures from exceeding
available revenues for the current fiscal year. Such recommendations shall
include proposals for reducing appropriations, increasing revenues or both.
   (B)   Within 20 days of receiving this information the Village Council shall
amend the budget resolution by reducing appropriations or approving such
measures as are necessary to provide revenues sufficient to equal
appropriations, or both. The amendment shall recognize the requirements of
state law. If the Village Council does not make effective such measures within
this time, the Chief Administrative Officer shall, within the next five days
and as a temporary measure until the Council takes action to amend the budget
resolution, make adjustments in appropriations in order to equalize
appropriations and estimated revenues and report such action to the Village
Council.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 33.18  VIOLATION MAY BE CAUSE FOR REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Any violation of §§
33.12 through
33.17 may be cause for removal of any elected or appointed officer in the
manner prescribed by the Village Council for the removal of such officer or
employee.
(Ord. 147, passed 5-19-2004)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Special Assessment Procedure
   
34.01   Special assessments for public improvements
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Initiation of special assessment projects
   
34.04   Survey and report
   
34.05   Determination on the project; notice
   
34.06   Hearing
   
34.07   Special assessment roll; review and corrections
   
34.08   Limitations of actions
   
34.09   Special assessments, when due
   
34.10   Partial payments, when due
   
34.11   Delinquent special assessments
   
34.12   Creation of lien
   
34.13   Additional assessments, refunds
   
34.14   Additional procedures
   
34.15   Collection of special assessments
   
34.16   Special assessment accounts
   
34.17   Reassessment for benefits
   
34.18   Assessing single lots
   
34.19   Notice of hearing
   
34.20   Anticipatory borrowing and bond issues
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
§ 34.01  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Council, by adopting a resolution, may determine the whole or a
part of the expense of a local public improvement or repair shall be defrayed
by special assessments upon the property specially benefitted.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST.  When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, shall
mean the same as “expense” and shall include the cost of services, plans,
condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices, advertising, financing, construction
and legal fees, and all other public costs incidental to the making of such
improvements, the special assessments therefor and the financing thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in
the vicinity of such improvement. It shall include, but not be limited to, the
following improvements, including the land therefor: public buildings and
offices, garbage collection, firehouses, destroying weeds, tree trimming,
street lighting, streets, alleys, lanes, bridges, sewers, drains, water
courses, water systems, or any other local public improvement or repair.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.03  INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the
village, and the determination that the whole or any part of the expense
thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted, provided that all special assessments levied shall be in proportion
to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be commenced by resolution
of the Village Council, with or without a petition.
   (B)    Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by
property owners owning 65% or more of the total property in the proposed
special assessment district. Such petition shall contain a brief description of
the property owned by the respective signers thereof and, if it shall appear
that the petition is signed by at least 65% of said owners, the Village Clerk
shall certify the same to the Village Council. The petition shall be addressed
to the Village Council but the Village Council shall not be obligated to make
the improvement.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.04  SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the Village Council shall consider the making of any local public
improvement, the same shall be referred by resolution to the Village President
directing him or her, or his or her designee, to cause to be prepared a report
which shall include necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed
estimates of costs, an estimate of the life of the improvement, a description
of the assessment district or districts, and such other pertinent information
as will permit the Council to decide the cost, extent and desirability of the
improvement proposed and what part or proportion thereof should be paid by
special assessments upon the property especially benefitted and what part, if
any, should be paid by the village at large. The Council shall not finally
determine to proceed with the making of any local public improvement until such
report of the Village President has been filed, nor until after a public
hearing has been held by the Council for the purpose of hearing objections to
the making of such improvement.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.05  DETERMINATION ON THE PROJECT; NOTICE.
   (A)   After the Village President has presented the report required in §
34.04 for making any local public improvement as requested in the resolution of
the Village Council, and the Village Council has reviewed said report, a
resolution may be passed approving the local public improvement, setting forth
the nature thereof, prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of such
improvement shall be paid by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted, determination of benefits received by affected properties, and what
part, if any, shall be paid by the village at large; designating the limits of
the special assessment district to be affected, designating whether to be
assessed according to frontage or other benefits, placing the complete
information on file in the office of the Village Clerk, where the same may be
found for examination, and directing the Village Clerk to give notice of public
hearing on the proposed improvement, at which time and place opportunity will
be given interested persons to be heard.
   (B)   Such notice shall be given by one publication in a newspaper published
or circulated within the village and by first class mail addressed to each
owner of or person in interest in property to be assessed as shown by the last
general tax assessment roll of the village, said publication and mailing to be
made at least ten full days prior to the date of said hearing. The hearing
required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned, or special
meeting of the Village Council.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.06  HEARING.
   (A)   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons
interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Village
Council may modify the scope of the local public improvement in such a manner
as it shall deem to be in the best interest of the village as a whole; provided
that if the amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district,
then another hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in §
34.05.
   (B)   If the determination of the Village Council shall be to proceed with
the improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimates of cost and
directing the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the Village Council’s determination and report the same to the Village Council
for confirmation. Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the Council
may, in its discretion, delay the preparation of the special assessment roll
until after the completion of the improvement, in which case the actual cost
thereof shall be reported to the Village Council, and the special assessment
roll shall be then made for such actual cost rather than for the estimated cost
as in other cases.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.07  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; REVIEW AND CORRECTIONS.
   (A)   Special assessment roll. The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by Village Council, and shall assess to
each such lot or parcel of land such relative portion of the whole sum to be
levied against all the lands in the special assessment district as the benefit
to such lot or parcel of land bears to the total benefits to all lands in such
district. There shall also be entered upon such roll the amount which has been
assessed to the village at large. When the Assessor shall have completed such
assessment roll, he or she shall attach thereto, or endorse thereon, his or her
certificate to the effect that said roll has been made by him or her pursuant
to a resolution of the Village Council (giving date of adoption of same) and
that in making the assessments therein he or she has, as near as may be
according to his or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the
directions contained in such resolution and to this subchapter, and to the
state law and to the provisions of this section. Thereupon he or she shall file
said special assessment roll with the Village Clerk who shall present the same
to the Village Council.
   (B)   Meeting to review special assessment roll; objections in writing. Upon
receipt of such special assessment roll, the Village Council, by resolution,
shall accept such assessment roll and order it to be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place the Village
Council will meet to review such special assessment roll and direct the Village
Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard. Such notice shall be given by
one publication in a newspaper published or circulated within the village and
by first class mail addressed to each owner of, or person in interest in,
property to be assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the
village, said publication and mailing to be made at least ten days prior to the
date of said hearing. The hearing required by this section may be held at any
regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Village Council. At this meeting,
all interested persons or parties shall present in writing or orally their
objections, if any, to the assessments against them. The Assessor shall be
present at every meeting of the Village Council at which a special assessment
is to be reviewed.
   (C)   Changes and corrections in assessment roll. The Village Council shall
meet at the time and place designated for the review of such special assessment
roll, and at such meeting, or a proper adjournment thereof, shall consider all
objections orally or in writing. The Village Council may correct said roll as
to any special assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or other
errors appearing therein; or it may, by resolution, annul such assessment roll
and direct that new proceedings be instituted. The same proceedings shall be
followed in making a new roll as in the making of the original roll. If, after
hearing all objections and making a record of such changes as the Village
Council deems justified, the Village Council determines that it is satisfied
with said special assessment roll and that assessments are in proportion to
benefits received, it shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting such
determinations, confirming such roll, placing it on file in the office of the
Village Clerk and directing the Village Clerk to attach his or her warrant to a
certified copy thereof within ten days, therein commanding the Assessor to
spread and the Village Treasurer to collect the various sums and amounts
appearing thereon as directed by the Village Council. Such roll shall have the
date of confirmation endorsed thereon and shall from that date be final and
conclusive for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies, subject only
to adjustment to conform to the actual cost of the improvement, as provided in
§
34.13.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.08  LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.
   (A)   An action may not be instituted for the purpose of contesting or
enjoining the collection of a special assessment unless:
      (1)   Within 45 days after the confirmation of the special assessment
roll, written notice is given to the Village Council indicating an intention to
file such an action and stating grounds on which it is claimed that the
assessment is illegal; and
      (2)   The action is commenced within 90 days after the confirmation of
the roll.
   (B)   If a portion of an assessment roll is determined to be illegal in
whole or in part, the Village Council may revoke its confirmation, correct the
illegality, if possible, or reconfirm it. Property which is not involved in the
illegality may not be assessed more than was imposed upon the original
confirmation without further notice and hearing thereon.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.09  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS, WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except such installments thereof as the Council
shall make payable at a future time as provided in this subchapter, shall be
due and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.10  PARTIAL PAYMENTS, WHEN DUE.
   (A)   The Village Council may provide for the payment of special assessments
in annual installments. Such annual installments shall not exceed 20 in number,
the first installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on such date
as the Village Council may determine and deferred installments being due
annually thereafter, or in the discretion of the Village Council, may be spread
upon and made a part of each annual village tax roll thereafter until all are
paid.
   (B)   Interest shall be charged on all deferred installments at a rate of 7%
or the highest amount permitted by state law for such assessments, whichever is
greater, commencing on the due date of the first installment and payable on the
due date of such subsequent installment; the full amount of all or any deferred
installments, with interest accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid
in advance of the due dates thereof.
   (C)   If the full assessment or the first installment thereof shall be due
upon confirmation, each property owner shall have 60 days from the date of
confirmation to pay the full amount of said assessment, or the full amount of
any installments thereof, without interest or penalty. Following said 60-day
period, the assessment or first installment thereof shall, if unpaid, be
considered as delinquent and the same penalties shall be collected on such
unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as are provided in this
subchapter and state law to be collected on delinquent general village taxes.
Deferred installments shall be collected without penalty until 60 days after
the due date thereof, after which time such installments shall be considered as
delinquent and such penalties on said installments shall be collected as are
provided in the village ordinance to be collected on delinquent general village
taxes.
   (D)   After the Council has confirmed the roll, the Village Treasurer shall
notify by mail each property owner on said roll that said roll has been filed,
stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of
the Village Treasurer to give said notice or of such owner to receive said
notice shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the village or any
assessment thereon, nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties. At the
option of the Village, the notice or bill for the amount owing may be sent out
after the project has been completed. In such event no interest shall be owing
nor shall the 60-day period begin to run until after the notice has been mailed
by the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.11  DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid on the first Monday of
March following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as
unpaid by the Village Treasurer to the Village Council. Any such delinquent
assessment, together with all accrued interest shall be transferred and
reassessed on the next annual village tax roll in a column headed “special
assessments” with a penalty of 4% upon such total amount added thereto, and
when so transferred and reassessed upon said tax roll shall be collected in all
respects as provided for the collection of village taxes.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.12  CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the village from the
persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general laws for state, county and village taxes, and the lands upon
which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as are
lands upon which delinquent village taxes constitute a lien.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.13  ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS, REFUNDS.
   The Village Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local
or special public improvement; compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special assessment roll to correspond
therewith. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary, by 5% or less,
the same shall be reported to the Village Council which may place the excess in
the village treasury or make a refund thereof prorata according to the
assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by more than 5%, the
entire excess shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the village
assessment roll upon which such assessment has been levied, prorata according
to the assessment; provided, however, that no refunds of special assessments
may be made which impair, or contravene the provision of any outstanding
obligation or bond secured in whole or part by such special assessments. When
any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the cost of the
improvement for which it was made, the Council may make an additional prorata
assessment, but the total amount assessed against any one parcel of land shall
not exceed the benefits received by said lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.14  ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this subchapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Village Council shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures
required.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.15  COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment roll or combination of rolls shall be set in a separate fund for the
payment of the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of
the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.16  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds are
authorized.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.17  REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the Village Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in
whole or in part, the Village Council shall have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made, whether the improvement or any part thereof has been completed and
whether any part of the assessment has been collected or not. All proceedings
on such reassessment and for the collection thereof shall be made in the manner
as provided for the original assessment. If any portion of the original
assessment shall have been collected and not refunded, it shall be applied upon
the reassessment and the reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied.
If more than the amount reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall
be refunded to the person making such payment.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.18  ASSESSING SINGLE LOTS.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the village upon or in respect
to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against such premises and
the owner thereof under the provisions of this subchapter, or any ordinance of
the village, or law of the state, and is not of that class required to be
prorated among several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment
district, an account of the labor, material or service for which such expense
was incurred, with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which
the expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be
reported to the Village Clerk who shall immediately charge and bill the owner,
if known. The Village President shall annually on or before January 15, or at
such other times as he or she may deem advisable, direct the Assessor to
prepare a special assessment roll covering all such charges which shall not
have been paid. Said roll shall be filed with the Village Clerk who shall
present the same to the Village Council. However, the Village Council may
follow the entire procedure used for other special assessments. Upon
confirmation of any special assessment roll authorized by this section, the
Village Council shall determine the number of installments in which assessments
may be paid, not to exceed 20 and the rate of interest to be charged on
installments, but not to exceed the highest legally permitted amount or 7%,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.19  NOTICE OF HEARING.
   In all cases where special assessments are made against property, notice of
all hearings in the special assessment proceedings shall be given as provided
in this subchapter, in addition to any notice of such hearings to be given by
publication or posting as required by statute, charter or ordinance. The LAST
GENERAL TAX ASSESSMENT ROLL OF THE VILLAGE means the last assessment roll for
ad valorem tax purposes which has been reviewed by the local board of review,
as supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names or the addresses of such
owners or parties listed thereon.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 34.20  ANTICIPATORY BORROWING AND BOND ISSUES.
   The Village Council may borrow money and issue bonds of the village therefor
in anticipation of the payment of special assessments in one or more special
assessment districts, which bonds may be an obligation of the special
assessment districts or may be both an obligation of the special assessments
district and a general obligation of the village. The Village Council may issue
general obligation bonds to defray that portion of the cost and expense of a
local public improvement chargeable to the village at large.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-19-2004)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   CROSS CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
Village Collection Service
   
50.01   Establishment
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   License required
   
50.04   License application
   
50.05   Residential collection license
   
50.06   Equipment
   
50.07   Vehicles to be covered
   
50.08   Fees
   
50.09   Additional requirements for garbage licenses
   
50.10   Rate payment
   
50.11   Application for new service
   
50.12   Discontinuing service
   
50.13   Construction, placement of containers
   
50.14   Recyclables
   
50.15   Ownership
   
50.16   Separation of garbage, trash and recyclables
Yard Waste
   
50.30   Definitions
   
50.31   Duration and hours of yard waste collection program
   
50.32   Containers; mixing of yard waste and trash prohibited
   
50.33   Depositing yard waste in street prohibited
   
50.34   Enforcement; violations
   
50.35   Conflicting provisions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Prohibiting dumping on streets, see §
92.26
VILLAGE COLLECTION SERVICE
§ 50.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be a Village Garbage, Trash and Recyclables Collection Service
for the residents of the village. The village is hereby authorized to
appropriate such monies and employ or contract with such persons as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.  Discarded animal and vegetable matter of any form or nature,  any
or all other organic matter associated with or produced by food, cooking or
eating, other than sewage and yard waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Hazardous waste shall be defined pursuant to state and
federal law.
   LICENSEE.  Those collectors and haulers duly licensed by the village to pick
up, collect and transport garbage, trash and recyclables.
   RECYCLABLES or RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.  Materials which have been used once,
in manufacturing or indirect consumption, that can be used to manufacture new
products. RECYCLABLES include but are not limited to: aluminum; corrugated
paper; cardboard; glass; HDPE plastic; magazine paper; metals; newsprint;
polystyrene; PET plastic; and rubber.
   TRASH or RUBBISH.  Anything not recyclable; materials or substances
discharged or rejected as being spent, useless, worthless or in excess to the
owner at the time of such discard or rejection, except sewage, highly diluted
water-carried materials, hazardous waste, batteries, oil, tires and yard waste.
   YARD WASTE.  Organic materials such as leaves, branches and grass.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit for funds for, collect funds, aid in collection,
conspire to collect or collect any garbage, trash, ashes, rubbish and
recyclables within the village for disposal unless and until he or she has been
duly licensed by the village. There shall be a maximum of one license issued
for residential garbage, trash and recyclables pickup and a maximum of five
licenses issued for commercial pickup.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04     LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for licenses to pick up, collect and transport
garbage, trash and recyclables shall be made to the Village Clerk. Applicants
shall state their name, address, type of license desired, description of
equipment to be used and location of disposal area for garbage and trash; and
types of recyclables to be picked up by applicant. All applications for
licenses shall be referred by the Village Clerk to the Village Council, who in
conjunction with the Chief of Police, shall cause an investigation to be made
and make recommendations to the Village Council as to the granting or rejecting
of the license for each applicant. The Village Council shall consider the
recommendations of the Chief of Police and shall approve or reject the granting
of all licenses under this subchapter.
   (B)   Applications for licenses may be rejected by the Village Council, or
licenses already granted may be revoked by the Village Council for the
following reasons:
      (1)   Improper, unsanitary or lack of equipment, conveyances or vehicles
used to transport the garbage, trash and recyclables;
      (2)   Unsatisfactory or unsanitary disposal areas; or
      (3)   Inability or failure to comply with this subchapter or the terms
and provisions of rules and regulations relating to garbage, trash and
recyclables pickup and disposal as as may be adopted from time to time by the
village.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.05     RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION LICENSE.
   As provided in §
50.03 above, there shall be only one license issued for residential garbage,
trash and recyclables collection. The Village Council shall accept bids to
provide residential collection service meeting the terms of this subchapter.
The residential license shall be awarded to the successful bidder with whom the
village shall enter into a contract providing for such collection. The contract
for collection shall not exceed 30 years. The village shall require the
successful bidder to provide adequate proof of insurance and may require the
posting of an adequate performance bond.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.06  EQUIPMENT.
   No license shall be granted by the Village Council to any applicant unless
the conveyance or vehicle to be used by the applicant to pick up and transport
any garbage, trash and recyclables shall have a leak proof box to properly
contain and hold the garbage, trash and recyclables. All conveyances or
vehicles used to transport garbage, trash and recyclables shall be equipped
with tailgates.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07     VEHICLES TO BE COVERED.
   Applicants and licenses shall be required to have their vehicles or
conveyances equipped with coverings, permanent or temporary, so as to prevent
garbage, trash and recyclables from blowing or falling off the conveyance while
being transported.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.08  FEES.
   (A)   Application fees. Applicants shall pay to the Village Clerk with such
applications such fees as shall be determined by the Village Council.
   (B)   Service fees. Residential and commercial users shall pay such fees as
shall be determined by the Village Council on an annual basis.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)
§ 50.09  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR GARBAGE LICENSES.
   In addition to the qualifications and requirements stated elsewhere in this
subchapter, all licensees shall be required to meet the following additional
requirements.
   (A)   All licensees shall be required to transport garbage, trash and
recyclables in a motor vehicle.
   (B)   All licensees shall be required to have said motor vehicle or vehicles
equipped with a leak-proof box or container to hold and contain all materials
collected.
   (C)   All licensees shall be required to operate and maintain equipment and
facilities in a manner such as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (D)   All licensees shall be required to keep said motor vehicle or vehicles
in a clean and sanitary condition by washing same after each day of collection
by means of a pressure hose. All vehicles used in the collection of garbage and
trash shall be repainted at least once each year.
   (E)   Each vehicle licensed to haul garbage, trash and recyclables in the
village shall display in plain view the village license number with decals not
less than four inches in height.
   (F)   All licensees shall be required to prepare and file with the Village
Clerk before picking up and transporting any garbage, trash and recyclables, a
collection and route schedule listing dates and times garbage, trash and
recyclables will be collected and routes to be covered on said dates. Such
schedules as filed shall be adhered to by each licensee.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)  Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.10     RATE PAYMENT.
   Every household within the village shall annually pay the Village Clerk in
advance for collection service. The collection service fee shall be added to
the household tax bill and collected with such bill.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 104, passed 1-9-1991; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-
1993)
§ 50.11     APPLICATION FOR NEW SERVICE.
   Every household within the village shall make proper application with the
Village Clerk for new service.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 104, passed 1-9-1991; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-
1993)
§ 50.12     DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   Every household which must discontinue service because of relocation or
absence shall notify the Village Clerk 15 days in advance of discontinuation of
service, but shall not be entitled to a refund of the unearned service fees
paid.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 50.13     CONSTRUCTION, PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The customer shall place the containers of garbage and trash at the
curb front of the premises or at the edge of the street on a day designated for
said pickup by the collector and at a said time designated for the arrival of
the collector. After the containers have been emptied by the collector the
customer shall promptly remove said containers from the street. Any person who,
because of physical disability, age or infirmity, is unable to place containers
at the curb or street may make special arrangements directly with the collector
for the movement of such containers.
   (B)   All containers furnished by the customer as containers for bags of
garbage and trash, and as containers for separated recyclables shall be of
substantial construction, strong enough to hold and contain when handled, the
contents of such containers. All containers from residential customers shall
not exceed 40 gallons capacity.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 114, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 50.14     RECYCLABLES.
   Every and all recyclables shall be separated from other solid waste, garbage
and trash. Recyclables shall be cleaned. All recyclables shall be placed in an
appropriate and suitable container and separated according to type.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15     OWNERSHIP.
   Ownership of recyclables set out for collection shall thereupon vest in the
village. It shall be unlawful for a person to collect, remove or dispose of
recyclables which are property of the village without first having obtained a
license required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16  SEPARATION OF GARBAGE, TRASH AND RECYCLABLES.
   All garbage from residential customers shall be drained and wrapped and
placed in a separate container from recyclables. All garbage and trash from
residential customers shall be placed in designated bags which shall be marked
in an appropriate fashion as shall be determined by the Village Council. All
violations of this section shall be reported to the Village Clerk by the
collector and at the option of the village such services may be discontinued
for such violation.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
50.99
YARD WASTE
§ 50.30     DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE YARD WASTE.  Grass clippings and garden weeds, leaves and
trimmings.
   APPROVED YARD WASTE CONTAINERS.  Include paper yard waste bags, 32-gallon
cans clearly marked “yard waste” or biodegradable plastic bags.
   BRUSH (2-INCH IN DIAMETER OR LESS).  Is considered yard waste if
containerized in an approved waste container.
   CONTAINERIZED.  The placement of yard waste in an approved yard waste
container so as to prevent yard waste from spilling or blowing out of the
container and coming into contact with the sidewalk, street, curb or storm
drain.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, company, association or other entity
not otherwise specified.
   STREET.  Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, parkway, viaduct, drive, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway and
includes the area between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and
may compromise pavement shoulders, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, parking areas and
other areas within the street.
   TRIMMINGS/BRANCHES BETWEEN 2 INCHES TO 6 INCHES IN DIAMETER.  Will be
collected with the yard waste provided they are bundled with twine and tied.
Bundles should be four feet maximum in length and a maximum of 60 pounds each.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 50.31     DURATION AND HOURS OF YARD WASTE COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The yard waste collection program will run annually from the first
Monday in April until the second Monday in November.
   (B)   During the yard waste season, the Department of Public Works will
collect all properly containerized and properly placed yard waste on a schedule
as determined by the Village Council. Yard waste containers (approved bags or
other approved waste receptacles) should be placed curbside by 8:00 a.m. the
morning of pick up.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)  Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.32     CONTAINERS; MIXING OF YARD WASTE AND TRASH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All containers (bags or designated yard waste receptacles containing
yard waste) and bundled trim and branches must not exceed a 60-pound weight
limit.
   (B)   Yard waste collected in non-biodegradable plastic bags or single layer
paper bags is prohibited and will not be collected.
   (C)   Mixing of yard waste with regular trash is prohibited.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33     DEPOSITING YARD WASTE IN STREET PROHIBITED.
   The owner or occupant of any property, or any individual, employee or
contractor of such owner or occupant engaged to provide lawn care or
landscaping services, shall not sweep, rake, blow or otherwise place yard
waste, unless the yard waste is containerized, in the street. If yard waste
that is not containerized is placed in the street, the party responsible for
placement of the yard waste must remove the yard waste from the street or said
party shall be deemed in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34     ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Police
Department.
   (B)   If the provisions of the foregoing sections are not complied with, a
village police officer shall serve personally or by regular first class mail,
written notice upon the owner, lessee, occupant or any person having the
control of the premises to comply with the provisions of the above sections.
Posting a notice of the violation upon the property shall be deemed to be
adequate notice. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails to
containerize or bundle the yard waste within 48 hours after receipt of such
notice or if no owner can be found of such lot, the Police Chief shall cause to
be containerized or bundled and to be removed with the actual cost of such
containerizing or bundling and removal, plus 25% for inspection and other
additional costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by the Village
Police Chief to the Village Treasurer and shall become a lien upon the property
on which such containerized or bundled yard waste were located, and shall be
assessed and collected in the same manner provided for collection of taxes.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 50.35  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All prior ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict with the
subject matter of this subchapter are hereby repealed in their entirety.
(Ord. 184, passed 8-12-2009)
§ 50.99     PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500, plus costs and other sanctions for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues, constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 103, passed 12-12-1990; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 184, passed 8-
12-2009)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Public and Private Sewers and Drains
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of public sewers required
   
51.03   Private sewage disposal
   
51.04   Building sewers and connections
   
51.05   Public sewer use
   
51.06   Protection from damage
   
51.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.08   Written notice of violations; liability to village
Operation of County Sewage Disposal System No. 13; Rates
   
51.20   County sewage disposal system No. 13 to be operated by the village
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Operation and maintenance of system to be supervised by County
Department of Public Works
   
51.23   Rates
   
51.24   No free service to be provided
   
51.25   Mandatory connection with system
   
51.26   Rates to provide for expenses; annual rate review
   
51.27   Operating year of system
   
51.28   Revenues to be deposited into Receiving Fund
   
51.29   Transfer of monies
   
51.30   Investments
   
51.31   Tampering with equipment
 
   
51.99   Penalty
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS AND DRAINS
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes from industrial, manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN(sometimes termed STORM SEWER).   A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The operator of the sewage works or his or her authorized
deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   VILLAGE.  The Village Council.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.02  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village,  any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the village, is hereby required at owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90
days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 66 feet of the property line.
   (E)   (1)   An industry or structure discharging process flow to the
sanitary sewer shall file the material listed below with the village.
      (2)   The village may require each person who applies for or receives
sewer service, or through the nature of the enterprise creates a potential
environmental problem to file the material listed below:
         (a)   File a written statement setting forth the nature of the
enterprise, the source and amount of water used, the amount of water to be
discharged with its present or expected bacterial, physical, chemical,
radioactive or other pertinent characteristics of the waste;
         (b)   Provide a plan map of the building, works or complex, with each
outfall to the surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural watercourse
or ground waters noted, described and the waste stream identified;
         (c)   Sample test, and file reports with the village and the
appropriate state agencies on appropriate characteristics of wastes on a
schedule, at locations, and according to methods approved by the village;
         (d)   Place waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste
streams or other potential waste problems under the specific supervision and
control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency as
properly qualified to supervise such facilities;
         (e)   Provide a report on raw materials entering the process or
support systems, intermediate materials, final products and waste by-products
as those factors may affect waste control;
         (f)   Maintain records and file reports on the final disposal of
specific liquid, solid, sludges, oils, radioactive materials, solvents or other
wastes; and
         (g)   If any industrial process is to be altered as to include or
negate a process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be given
to the village, subject to approval.
   (F)   Prior to the issuance of any permit for connection with any public
sewer as provided in §
51.04 of this subchapter, the Superintendent shall ascertain that the sewage
works is adequate to service said new users.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provision of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the village.
The application for such a permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Village Council. A permit and
inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County
Health Department and the village. The Inspector shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the village when the work is ready for final inspection,
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the County Health Department
and the village. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 12,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.02(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material as
designated by the village.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the village.
   (H)   When public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and private sewage disposal system shall
be cleaned of all sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes. 
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications  or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $15 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and
$30 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Village
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   (1)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
      (2)   All deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other private property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent.
   (L)   All residential or commercial building sewers shall, as a minimum,
have an I. D. of four inches. Industrial building sewer sizes shall be as
required by the Superintendent.
   (M)   All building sewers shall have a cleanout provided at the property
line constructed using a wye connection on the building sewer at the property
line with a four-inch diameter extension to the ground surface. The cleanout
shall be plugged at the ground surface with suitable means to prevent surface
water entry and shall be as approved by the Superintendent. The cleanout shall
be installed in such a manner as to allow cleaning of the public sewer.
   (N)   The Superintendent shall not permit any new connections to the sewer
system unless there is available capacity in all downstream treatment
facilities.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  PUBLIC SEWER USE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the appropriate state agency. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of
the Superintendent and the State Department of Natural Resources, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided by specific limits, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   BOD5 in excess of 300 mg/1;
      (2)   COD in excess of 450 mg/1;
      (3)   Chlorine demand in excess of 15 mg/1;
      (4)   Color, as from but not limited to dyes, inks and vegetable tanning
solutions, shall be controlled to prevent light absorbancy which would
interfere with treatment plant processes or that prevent analytical
determinations;
      (5)   Explosive liquid, solid or gas, gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil
or other flammable shall not be admitted;
      (6)   Garbage not properly shredded (no particle size greater than one-
half inch) shall not be allowed;
      (7)   Grease, oils, wax, fat, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 50
mg/1; or other substance which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32°F and 150°F shall not be admitted to the sanitary sewer;
      (8)   (a)   Industrial wastes in concentrations above those listed below
shall not be allowed to enter sanitary sewers:
               Cd      CN       Cr+6       Cr Total   Cu   FE    Ni
               Pb      Phenols   Zn
         (Limitations set forth by appropriate state agencies to comply with
federal guidelines for protection of treatment plan and receiving water course)
         (b)   Or any other metallic compounds in sufficient quantity to impair
the operation of the sewage treatment processes.
      (9)   Inert suspended solids (such as but not limited to Fullers earth,
lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as but not
limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in unusual
concentrations shall not be allowed;
      (10)   Insoluble, solid or viscous substances such as but not limited to
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair, fleshings and the like, shall not be admitted to sanitary
sewers;
      (11)   Noxious or malodorous gas, such as but not limited to hydrogen
sulfide, sulphur dioxide or oxides of nitrogen and other substances capable of
producing a public nuisance shall not be allowed;
      (12)   pH less than 5.5 and greater than 9.5 shall not be allowed;
      (13)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
which may exceed limits established by applicable state and federal regulations
shall not be allowed;
      (14)   Suspended solids in excess of 350 mg/1;
      (15)   Temperature of wastes less than 32°F and greater than 150°F shall
not be allowed; and
      (16)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the NPDES permit having jurisdiction
over the discharge to the receiving waters.
   (D)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (C) above, and which in the judgment
of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
village may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pre-treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing sewer charges, under the provisions of
division (J) below.
      (2)   If the village permits the pre-treatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.  All pre-treatment shall be done in
accordance with federal pre-treatment standard (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (E)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided, when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (F)   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation, by the owner at his or her expense.
   (G)   When required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (H)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the most recent edition of Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole.
In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole
shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to
the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (2)   Samplings shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods
pursuant to Guidelines for Established Test Procedures for Analyses of
Pollutants to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to
determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular
analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of
a premise is appropriate or whether grab sample or samples should be taken.
   (I)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefrom, by
the industrial concern in accordance with the rate ordinance of the village.
   (J)   When an industrial user, as defined in the Federal Register (40 C.F.R.
§ 35.905), begins discharging to treatment works constructed by an E.P.A.
federal grant, the village shall develop and implement an industrial cost
recovering system in accordance with federal regulations (40 C.F.R. § 35.928).
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
village shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to
the village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss
or damage to its property by said employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gaging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
51.05(H).
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08  WRITTEN NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
except §
51.06 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
OPERATION OF COUNTY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM NO. 13; RATES
§ 51.20  COUNTY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM NO. 13 TO BE OPERATED BY THE VILLAGE.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary, for the public
health, safety and welfare of the village that the County Sewage Disposal
System No. 13 (village) be operated by said village as lessee of the county and
the County Department of Public Works under Act 185 of 1957, M.C.L.A. §§
123.731 et seq., as amended, on a public utility rate basis in accordance with
the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through
141.140, as amended.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REVENUES and NET REVENUES.  Shall be understood to have the meanings as
defined in Public Act 94 of 1933, M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et seq., as amended.
   THE SYSTEM.  The complete village sewage disposal system including all
sewers, pumps, lift stations, treatment facilities and all other facilities
used or useful in the collection, treatment and disposal of domestic,
commercial or industrial wastes, including all appurtenances thereto and
including all extensions and improvements thereto, which may hereafter be
acquired.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.22  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM TO BE SUPERVISED BY COUNTY
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The operation and maintenance of the system shall be under the supervision
and control of the County Department of Public Works subject to the terms of
the contract, dated June 14, 1978 between the county and the village. Pursuant
to the terms of such contract, the village has retained the exclusive right to
establish, maintain and collect rates and charges for sewer collection and
disposal service and in such capacity the Village Council may employ such
person or persons in such capacity or capacities as it deems advisable and may
make such rules, orders and regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to
assure the efficient establishment, maintenance and collection of such rates
and charges.  The actual operation and maintenance of the system shall be
performed by the village which shall annually establish a budget for the system
subject to the supervision and control of the County Department of Public
Works.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.23  RATES.
   (A)   Monthly rates and any associated charges for the use and services
furnished by the village sewer system shall be as provided herein.
   (B)   Sewer charges for all customers shall be based on a minimum charge
(hereafter “ready to serve charge”) plus the quantity of water used as measured
by the respective village municipal water supply meters, for each billing
period, except as otherwise provided.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, a SINGLE RESIDENCE is defined as
a house, apartment, mobile home, trailer, condominium or other permanent
construction, having kitchen and/or toilet facilities, in which a person or
family live in an individual or private state apart from other persons
primarily as a place of residence per unit.
      (2)   Other customers are comprised of units or dwellings designed for
multiple person occupancy either by single apartments or other multi-family
dwellings, individual shops, stores, businesses, restaurants, coin washers,
gasoline service stations, tourist homes and other nonresidential buildings.
      (3)   For those multi-unit premises whose water is measured jointly by
one water meter, the ready to serve charge shall be applicable to each separate
unit on the multi-unit premises. Usage charges shall also apply.
      (4)   For the purposes of establishing billing charges for sewer usage on
a per month basis, each customer’s water meter shall receive either an actual
meter reading, at least one per quarter weather permitting, or an estimated
reading based on the average water usage over a period of time. Following an
estimated reading, a customer’s billing may be adjusted either up or down when
the following actual reading is taken.
      (5)   For temporary customers such as contractors or for construction
purposes and the like, sewer service that is provided shall be charged on the
basis of the below stated ready to serve charge (pro rated) and usage rates.
When a water meter is installed for such purposes, the ready to serve charge
and sewer usage rates shall apply and the temporary user shall pay for the
installation and removal of the meter, and shall be responsible for said meter
and appurtenances.
   (C)   (1)   Monthly sewer rates of the village customers.
   Monthly Sewer Rates
Ready to serve charge:    Additional usage rate per 1000 gallons:
   Monthly Sewer Rates
Ready to serve charge:     Additional usage rate per 1000 gallons:
5/8" meter  $37.00  0 - 1000         Included
1" meter   $37.00  1,001 - 4,000   $6.00
1.5" meter  $40.00    4,001 - 10,000   $7.50
2" meter   $42.50  10,000 and above  $8.50
3" meter   $45.00
Sewer only flat rate: Total per month  $55.00
 
      (2)   The above stated rates are established to be sufficient to provide
for the payment of expenses of administration and for the operation,
maintenance and replacement of the sewer disposal system as are necessary to
preserve the same in good repair and in good working order, to provide for the
payment of contractual obligations of the village to the state and/or federal
government pursuant to statute and contractual obligations as they become due
and to provide for such other expenditures and funds for the sewer system as
this section may require.
   (D)   (1)   All applications for sewer service attachments to the sewer
collection piping for the purposes of collecting sanitary sewage from the
premises, as well as application for the sewer must be made at the village
offices by the owner of the premises from which the sanitary sewage is proposed
to be collected. The application for sewer service shall be upon forms
prescribed by the village and signed by the prospective customer or an
authorized agent.
      (2)   The prospective customer shall pay in advance for the sewer service
hook-up, as the minimum charge; charges for service piping, backhoe services,
operator service and all labor shall be accounted for, then the complete cost
of the attachment shall be charged to the customer on a cost plus basis upon
completion. Charges for equipment and labor are in addition to the tap charges.
      (3)   Sewer tap charge: $1,800.
   (E)   Special rates for miscellaneous services shall be established and
fixed by the Village Council from time to time.
   (F)   (1)   The following non-recurring charges shall be made for those
transactions and/or services provided by the Water Department:
         (a)   Service charge: Two times the actual hourly rate labor rate; and
         (b)   Equipment charge: Per equipment rental schedule utilized by the
village to comply with Public Act 51 of 1951, State Transportation Law.
      (2)   Requests for adjustments of sewer billings shall be made in writing
to the village within 30 days of the date of the billing. Adjustments will be
made only for clerical errors, misreads or unexplained failure of village-owned
equipment; there will be no adjustments made for leaks, pool fills or other
causes within the control or responsibility of the property owner. Adjustments
may be made for one pool fill per property per year upon prior written request
of the property owner to the village.
   (G)   The village shall review the rate structure annually and shall adjust
the fixed charges, usage charges, fees and other customer charges to generate
adequate revenues and maintain proportionate system of customer charges. This
shall be accomplished by a resolution of the Village Council after a public
hearing thereon.
   (H)   (1)   Bills will be rendered monthly and shall be immediately due and
payable and may be paid without penalty up to and including the last day of the
month when rendered. If the bill is not paid in full on or before the last day
of the month in which the bill is rendered, a penalty of 10% on the unpaid
balance shall be added.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right to
shut off water service to any premise for which water and sewer services have
not been paid by the last day of the following month and such service shall not
be reestablished until all delinquent charges, penalties and turn-off and turn-
on charges have been paid. Charges and penalties may be recovered through court
action.
   (I)   Collection of all sewer system charges, fees, penalties and any
assessment issued in accordance with any provision of this section as adopted
by the Village Council shall be performed by the Water Clerk or other
appropriately designated village employee, as provided by applicable law and
deposited in an approved financial intuition.
   (J)   Charges for services furnished to a premises may be a lien on the
premises, and those charges delinquent for six months or more may be certified
annually to the proper tax assessing officer or agency who shall enter the lien
on the next tax roll against the premises to which the services shall have been
rendered, and the charges shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in
the same manner as provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll
and the enforcement of the lien for the taxes. The time and manner of
certification and other details in respect to the collection of the charges and
the enforcement of the lien shall be prescribed by an ordinance adopted by the
village. However, in a case when a tenant is responsible for the payment of the
charges and the village is so notified in writing, the notice to include a copy
of the lease of the affected premises, if there is one, then the charges shall
not become a lien against the premises after the date of the notice. In the
event of filing of the notice, the public corporation shall render no further
service to the premises until a cash deposit of not less than one full year’s
service shall have been made as security for the payment of the charges. In
addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the payment of charges for
sewer service to any premises may be enforced by discontinuing the water
service to the premises and the payment of charges for sewage disposal service
or storm water disposal service to a premises may be enforced by discontinuing
the water service, the sewage disposal service or the storm water disposal
service to the premises, or any combination of the services.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979; Ord. 129, passed 7-8-1998; Ord. 131, passed 3-10-
1999; Ord. 145, passed 7-18-2001; Ord. 151, passed 2-19-2003; Ord. 154, passed
5-19-2004; Ord. 180, passed 2-25-2009; Ord. 197, passed 12-14-2011; Ord. 201,
passed 6-12-2013; Ord. 212, passed 10-11-2017; Ord. 217, passed 4-10-2019)
Statutory reference:
   The Revenue Bond Act, see Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. §
141.121
§ 51.24  NO FREE SERVICE TO BE PROVIDED.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.25  MANDATORY CONNECTION WITH SYSTEM.
   It is hereby determined and declared that public sanitary sewers are
essential to the health, safety and welfare of the people of the village; that
all premises on which structures in which sanitary sewage originates shall
connect to the system at the earliest, reasonable date as a matter for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the people of the
village, and therefore all premises on which structures in which sanitary
sewage originates are situated or become situated and to which sewer services
of the system shall be available shall connect to said system within 90 days
after the mailing or posting of notice on such premises by the appropriate
village official that such services are available. Said notification and
enforcement of this section shall be in conformity with Public Act 368 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.127101 et seq.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26  RATES TO PROVIDE FOR EXPENSES; ANNUAL RATE REVIEW.
   (A)   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of the expenses of administration and operation, such expenses for
maintenance of the said system as are necessary to preserve the same in good
repair and working order, to provide for the payment of the contractual
obligations of the village to the county pursuant to the aforesaid contract
between said county and the village as the same become due, and to provide for
such other expenditures and funds for said system as this subchapter may
require.
   (B)   Such rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time, by resolution
of the Village Council after a public hearing thereon, as may be necessary to
produce these amounts. The village shall review the rate structure annually and
adjust the capital charges and user charges to generate adequate revenues and
maintain a proportionate system of user charges (user charges must reflect the
costs incurred by the village to provide each user with treatment services).
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.27  OPERATING YEAR OF SYSTEM.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of an operating year commencing on
October 1 and ending on September 30 next following.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979; Ord. 171, passed 5-9-2007)
§ 51.28  REVENUES TO BE DEPOSITED INTO RECEIVING FUND.
   The revenues of the system shall be set aside, as collected, and deposited
in a separate depository account in The Bank of Three Oaks, a bank duly
qualified to do business in the state, in an account to be designated Sewage
Disposal System Receiving Fund (hereinafter, for brevity, referred to as the
“Receiving Fund”), and said revenues so deposited shall be transferred from the
Receiving Fund periodically in the manner and at the times hereafter specified.
   (A)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the Receiving
Fund, there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depositary account,
designated Operation and Maintenance Fund, a sum sufficient to provide for the
payment of the next quarter’s current expenses of administration and operation
of the system and such current expenses for the maintenance thereof as may be
necessary to preserve the same in good repair and work order. EQUIPMENT
REPLACEMENT means expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. Replacement is an operation and maintenance
expense.
   (B)   Contract Payment Fund. There shall next be established and maintained
a depository account, to be designated Contract Payment Fund, which shall be
used solely for the payment of the village’s obligations to the county pursuant
to the aforesaid contract. There shall be deposited in said fund quarterly,
after requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been met, such
sums as shall be necessary to pay said contractual obligations when due. Should
the revenues of the system prove insufficient for this purpose, such revenues
may be supplemented by any other fund of the village legally available for such
purpose.
   (C)   Replacement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained a
depository account designated Replacement Fund, which shall be used solely for
the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the system, if needed.
There shall be set aside into said fund, after provision has been made for the
Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Contract Payment Fund, such revenues as
the Village Council shall deem necessary for this purpose.
   (D)   Improvement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained an
Improvement Fund for the purpose of making improvements, extensions and
enlargements to the system. There shall be deposited into said fund, after
providing for the foregoing fund, such revenues as the Village Council shall
determine.
   (E)   Surplus monies. Monies remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of
any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of the
foregoing funds, may, at the option of the Village Council be transferred to
the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other project of the
village reasonably related to purposes of the system.
   (F)   Bank accounts. All money belonging to any of the foregoing funds or
accounts may be kept in one bank account, in which event the monies shall be
allocated on the books and records of the village within this single bank
account, in the manner above set forth.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.29  TRANSFER OF MONIES.
   In the event the monies in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to provide
for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any monies
and/or securities in other funds of the system, except sums in the Contract
Payment Fund derived from special assessments or tax levies, shall be
transferred to the Operation and Maintenance Fund, to the extent of any deficit
therein. User charges for operation, maintenance and equipment replacement
shall be immediately adjusted to reflect increased costs and defray amounts
borrowed from other funds.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.30  INVESTMENTS.
   Monies in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
subchapter may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in
the manner and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.140, as amended. In the event such
investments are made, the securities representing the same shall be kept on
deposit with the bank or trust company having on deposit the fund or funds from
which such purchase was made. Income received from such investments shall be
credited to the fund from which said investments were made.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979)
§ 51.31  TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT.
   No person other than the Water Department Superintendent, his or her
designee or person authorized by the Village Council or Village Manager may
adjust, alter or otherwise exert dominion over the village sewer system
property. Any person tampering, altering, adjusting, damaging, destroying or
otherwise interfering with the Sewer Department property or who violates any of
the provisions of this section is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to the penalty provided in §
51.99.
(Ord. 74, passed 11-14-1979; Ord. 180, passed 2-25-2009)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.05,
51.07,
51.08 or
51.23 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
this chapter:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues,
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating §
51.06 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 75, passed 11-14-1979; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 184, passed 8-12-
2009)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
Water System Operation and Rates
   
52.01   Rates and charges established in this subchapter
   
52.02   Basis of charges
   
52.03   Monthly water rates
   
52.04   Applications for water service
   
52.05   Special rates may be adopted by Village Council
   
52.06   Non-recurring charges; requests for adjustments
   
52.07   Annual rate review
   
52.08   Billing; penalty for late payment
   
52.09   Collections by Village Water Clerk
   
52.10   Charges a lien on premises
   
52.11   Tampering or interfering with waterworks property
   
52.12   Conflicting provisions
Private Wells
   
52.25   Private well defined
   
52.26   Prohibitions; permits
   
52.27   Temporary use
   
52.28   Property split or conveyance
   
52.29   Modification notice
Additional Regulations
   
52.40   Prohibiting the addition of fluoride to drinking water
   
52.41   Source of contamination or pollution prohibited
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER SYSTEM OPERATION AND RATES
§ 52.01  RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED IN THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Monthly rates and any associated charges for the use and services furnished
by the village water system shall be as provided herein.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.02  BASIS OF CHARGES.
   Water charges for all customers shall be based on a minimum charge
(hereafter “ready to serve charge”) plus the quantity of water used as measured
by the respective village municipal water supply meters, for each billing
period, except as otherwise provided.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a SINGLE RESIDENCE is defined as
a house, apartment, mobile home, trailer, condominium or other permanent
construction, having kitchen and/or toilet facilities, in which a person or
family live in an individual or private state apart from other persons
primarily as a place of residence per unit.
   (B)   Other customers are comprised of units or dwellings designed for
multiple-person occupancy either by single apartments or other multi-family
dwellings, individual shops, stores, businesses, restaurants, coin washers,
gasoline service stations, tourist homes and other nonresidential buildings.
   (C)   For those multi-unit premises whose water is measured jointly by one
water meter, the ready to serve charge shall be applicable to each separate
unit on the multi-unit premises. Usage charges shall also apply.
   (D)   For the purposes of establishing billing charges for water usage on a
per month basis, each customer’s meter shall receive either an actual meter
reading, at least one per quarter weather permitting, or an estimated reading
based on the average water usage over a period of time. Following an estimated
reading, a customer’s billing may be adjusted either up or down when the
following actual reading is taken.
   (E)   For temporary customers such as contractors or for construction
purposes, and the like; water service that is provided shall be charged on the
basis of the below stated ready to serve charge (pro rated) and usage rates.
When a water meter is installed for such purposes, the ready to serve charge
and water usage rates shall apply and the temporary user shall pay for the
installation and removal of the meter, and shall be responsible for said meter
and appurtenances.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009; Ord. 196, passed 12-14-2011)
§ 52.03  MONTHLY WATER RATES.
   (A)   Monthly water rates of village customers.
 
Ready to serve charge                                  $30
Additional usage rate per 1,000 gallons:               $5.18
total per 1,000 gallons up to 100,000 gallons
Additional usage rate per 1,000 gallons: above 100,000 $4.68
gallons
Fire protection, public hydrants                       $8.33 per hydrant
 
   (B)   The above stated rates are established to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of expenses of administration and for the operation, maintenance
and replacement of the waterworks system as are necessary to preserve the same
in good repair and in good working order, to provide for the payment of
contractual obligations of the village to the state and/or federal government
pursuant to statute and contractual obligations as they become due and to
provide for such other expenditures and funds for the water system as this
subchapter may require.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009; Ord. 190, passed 12-8-2010; Ord. 213, passed 10-
11-2017)
§ 52.04  APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   All applications for water service attachments to the water
distribution piping for the purposes of introducing water from the waterworks
system into any premises, as well as application for the water must be made at
the village offices by the owner of the premises into which the water is
proposed to be introduced. The application for water service shall be upon
forms prescribed by the village and signed by the prospective customer or an
authorized agent.
   (B)   The prospective customer shall pay in advance for the following water
service tap charges, as the minimum charges, which will include only a
corporation stop, curb stop, service box and appurtenances for the attachment;
charges for service piping, backhoe services, operator service and all labor
shall be accounted for, then the complete cost of the attachment shall be
charged to the customer on a cost-plus basis upon completion. Charges for
equipment and labor are in addition to the tap charges.
 
Water Service Tap Charges
5/8 to 1 inch           $2,200
over 1 inch to 2 inches $7,800
over 2 inches           Contact village office for quote
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.05  SPECIAL RATES MAY BE ADOPTED BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Special rates for miscellaneous services shall be established and fixed by
the Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.06  NON-RECURRING CHARGES; REQUESTS FOR ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The following non-recurring charges shall be made for those
transactions and/or services provided by the Water Department:
 
                               Per equipment rental schedule utilized by the
Equipment charge:              village to comply with Public Act 51 of 1951
                               (State Transportation Law)
Meter turn-on/turn-off orders: $25 flat fee
Service charge:             Two times the actual hourly rate labor rate
 
   (B)   Requests for adjustments of water billings shall be made in writing to
the village within 30 days of the date of the billing. Adjustments will be made
only for clerical errors, misreads or unexplained failure of village-owned
equipment; there will be no adjustments made for leaks, pool fills or other
causes within the control or responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.07  ANNUAL RATE REVIEW.
   The village shall review the rate structure annually and shall adjust the
fixed charges, usage charges, fees and other customer charges to generate
adequate revenues and maintain proportionate system of customer charges. This
shall be accomplished by a resolution of the Village Council after a public
hearing thereon.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.08  BILLING; PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   Bills will be rendered monthly and shall be immediately due and
payable and may be paid without penalty up to and including the last day of the
month when rendered. If the bill is not paid in full on or before the last day
of the month in which the bill is rendered, a penalty of 10% on the unpaid
balance shall be added.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right to shut
off water service to any premise for which water and sewer services have not
been paid by the last day of the following month and such service shall not be
reestablished until all delinquent charges, penalties and turn-off and turn-on
charges have been paid. Charges and penalties may be recovered through court
action.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.09  COLLECTIONS BY VILLAGE WATER CLERK.
   Collection of all water system charges, fees, penalties and any assessment
issued in accordance with any provision of this subchapter as adopted by the
Village Council shall be performed by the Water Clerk or other appropriately
designated village employee, as provided by applicable law and deposited in an
approved financial intuition.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.10  CHARGES A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   Charges for services furnished to a premises may be a lien on the premises,
and those charges delinquent for six months or more may be certified annually
to the proper tax assessing officer or agency who shall enter the lien on the
next tax roll against the premises to which the services shall have been
rendered, and the charges shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in
the same manner as provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll
and the enforcement of the lien for the taxes. The time and manner of
certification and other details in respect to the collection of the charges and
the enforcement of the lien shall be prescribed by an ordinance adopted by the
village. However, in a case when a tenant is responsible for the payment of the
charges and the village is so notified in writing, the notice to include a copy
of the lease of the affected premises, if there is one, then the charges shall
not become a lien against the premises after the date of the notice. In the
event of filing of the notice, the public corporation shall render no further
service to the premises until a cash deposit in a sum fixed in the ordinance
authorizing the issuance of bonds under this act is made as security for the
payment of the charges. In addition to any other lawful enforcement methods,
the payment of charges for water service to any premises may be enforced by
discontinuing the water service to the premises and the payment of charges for
sewage disposal service or storm water disposal service to a premises may be
enforced by discontinuing the water service, the sewage disposal service, or
the storm water disposal service to the premises, or any combination of the
services.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
Statutory reference:
   The Revenue Bond Act, see Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. §
141.121
§ 52.11  TAMPERING OR INTERFERING WITH WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person other than the Water Department Superintendent, his or her
designee or person authorized by the Village Council or Village Manager may
adjust, alter or otherwise exert dominion over the village waterworks property.
   (B)   In addition to any fines and penalties, any person found to have
committed the above named acts with respect to village property shall be
responsible for replacing the damaged property and any labor associated with
replacement or repair.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
§ 52.12  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All prior ordinances, resolutions or parts thereof in conflict with the
subject matter of this subchapter are hereby repealed in their entirety.
(Ord. 179, passed 2-25-2009)
PRIVATE WELLS
§ 52.25  PRIVATE WELL DEFINED.
   A PRIVATE WELL is defined as an opening in the surface of earth for the
purpose of removing water through mechanical or non-mechanical means for any
purpose except construction site dewatering or conducting response activity,
including sampling or treatment of the groundwater, under a plan approved by
the State Department of Environmental Quality. These exceptions apply only when
all necessary permits have been obtained for the well in question.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 52.26  PROHIBITIONS; PERMITS.
   No person shall install a private well, without first obtaining a permit
from the Department of Public Works. No permit for a private well shall be
issued where village water is available within 200 feet of the property. If
municipal water service is unavailable within 200 feet of any developable
parcel, a private well may be permitted if the well water is tested annually
and approved for human consumption by the State Department of Environmental
Quality, Drinking Water and Radiological Protection Division or the County
Health Department, and if written proof of such annual approval is delivered to
the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27  TEMPORARY USE.
   A well meeting the above criteria may be used temporarily for water until
the village water service is available within 200 feet of the property, at
which time the well shall be properly capped and abandoned and proper hook-up
to the village water system shall be required. The cost of proper abandonment
of a well that was temporarily allowed under this section and proper hookup to
the village water system shall be the owner’s responsibility.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 52.28  PROPERTY SPLIT OR CONVEYANCE.
   No split or conveyance of any property shall be effective to render village
water service unavailable.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 52.29  MODIFICATION NOTICE.
   At least 30 days prior to adopting a modification of this subchapter or 30
days prior to the lapsing or revocation of this subchapter, the village shall
notify the Director of the State Department of Environmental Quality by
registered mail.
(Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004)  Penalty, see §
52.99
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.40  PROHIBITING THE ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO DRINKING WATER.
   The addition of fluoride to the drinking water of the municipal water system
of the village is hereby expressly prohibited. The specific purpose of this
section is to exempt the water system of the village from the provisions of
Public Act 346 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.191 and 325.192, which Act makes
the addition of fluoride to the drinking water of a public water system
mandatory unless the municipality exempts itself from the provisions of said
Act by ordinance duly enacted by the Village Council.
(Ord. 55, passed 6-7-1973)
§ 52.41  SOURCE OF CONTAMINATION OR POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct
or maintain, or permit to be constructed or maintained, within a radius of 100
feet from any of the wells supplying the municipal water system of the village,
any source of possible contamination or pollution to said wells.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any
act, or to allow to be done any act, that may contaminate or pollute or
contribute to the contamination or pollution of the water supply wells or water
system of the village.
(Ord. 27, passed 8-9-1959)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person tampering, altering, adjusting, damaging, destroying or
otherwise interfering with the Water Department property or who violates any of
the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.12 or §§
52.25 through
52.29 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250 plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
the sections listed in division (B) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.   
   (C)   Each day on which any violation of §§
52.25 through
52.29 continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense. In addition, the village
specifically reserves the right to proceed in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction, restraining order or
other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with the provisions of §§
52.25 through
52.29.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
52.41 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100, and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a term of not exceeding 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 27, passed 8-9-1959; Ord. 155, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 179, passed 2-25-
2009)
CHAPTER 53:  CROSS CONNECTIONS
Section
   
53.01   State water supply cross connection rules adopted by reference
   
53.02   Inspections by Water Department
   
53.03   Right of entry
   
53.04   Water service discontinued for violation
   
53.05   Non-potable water
   
53.06   Regulations supplement State Plumbing Code
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  STATE WATER SUPPLY CROSS CONNECTION RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village adopts by reference the water supply cross connection rules of
the State Department of Public Health being R325.431 to R325.440 of the State
Administrative Code.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.02  INSPECTIONS BY WATER DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Water Department to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water supply where cross connections
with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspection
and reinspections based on potential health hazards shall be as established by
the Water Department.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.03  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The representative of the Water Department shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems on such property. Refusal of such information or refusal of access,
when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.04  WATER SERVICE DISCONTINUED FOR VIOLATION.
   The village water system is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross connections have been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.05  NON-POTABLE WATER.
   The potable water supply made available on the property served by the public
water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified by
this chapter and by the State Plumbing Code. Any water outlet which could be
used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable
system must be labeled in a conspicuously manner as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENT STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   This chapter does not supercede the State Plumbing Code or any other village
ordinance but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
liable to a fine of not more than $100, or by imprisonment in the county jail
not to exceed 90 days or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 58, passed 1-3-1974)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
State Provisions Adopted
   
70.01   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages adopted by
reference
Tourist Signs, Bicycles and Railroads
   
70.15   Tourist-oriented directional signs
   
70.16   Use of bicycles and other wheeled vehicles on sidewalks
   
70.17   Manually controlled crossing gates at railroad crossing
 
   
70.99   Penalty
STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED
§ 70.01  MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.1 through 257.923, is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to “local authorities” shall
mean the village.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publish this section in the manner required by
law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Michigan Vehicle Code and the fact that a complete copy of the code is
available to the public at the office of the Village Clerk for inspection.
   (D)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the village may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
(Ord. 165, passed 11-10-2005)
§ 70.02  UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR CITIES, TOWNSHIPS AND VILLAGES ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages as
promulgated by the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police pursuant
to the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 Public Act 306 of 1969,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 through 24.328 and made effective October 30, 2002,
and all future amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they
are promulgated and effective in this state are incorporated by reference.
   (B)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages to a “governmental unit” shall mean the village.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publish this section in the manner required by
law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages and the fact that a
complete copy of the Code is available to the public at the office of the
Village Clerk for inspection.
   (D)   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 166, passed 4-12-2006)
TOURIST SIGNS, BICYCLES AND RAILROADS
§ 70.15  TOURIST-ORIENTED DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   (A)   The village may permit tourist-oriented directional signs as defined
by M.C.L.A. § 247.401 within its jurisdictional boundaries as provided by and
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 247.403(7).
   (B)   An operator of a tourist-oriented activity who wishes to participate
in a directional sign program under Public Act 299 of 1996, as amended, and is
applying for a sign that would reside with the boundaries of the village in
accordance with the provisions of Public Act 299 of 1996 § 2, being M.C.L.A. §
247.402, shall submit the application for review by the Village Council or its
designee.
   (C)   The Village Council or its designee may approve or reject the
placement of any tourist-oriented directional sign within its jurisdictional
boundaries under the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The Village Council may appoint a designee by resolution to approve or
reject placement of any tourist oriented directional sign within its
jurisdictional boundaries.
(Ord. 200, passed 4-10-2013)
§ 70.16  USE OF BICYCLES AND OTHER WHEELED VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE.  Any wheeled vehicle propelled by means of chain driven gears
using footpower, electrical power or gasoline motor power, except that vehicles
defined as “motorcycles” or “mopeds” under the Motor Vehicle Code for the State
shall not be considered as BICYCLES under this section. This definition shall
include, but not be limited to, single-wheeled vehicles, also known as
unicycles; two-wheeled vehicles, also known as bicycles; three-wheeled
vehicles, also known as tricycles; and any of the above-listed vehicle which
may have training wheels or other wheels to assist in the balance of the
vehicle.
      ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.  A self-balancing non-tandem
two-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person at a time, having an
electrical propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or one horsepower
and a maximum speed on a paved level surface of not more than 15 mph.
      ROLLER SKATES.  Any shoe-like device with wheels attached, including, but
not limited to, ROLLER SKATES, in-line roller skates and roller blades.
      SKATEBOARD.  Any surfboard-like object with wheels attached. SKATEBOARD
shall also include, under its definition, vehicles commonly referred to as
“scooters,” being surfboardlike objects with wheels attached and a handle
coming up from the forward end of the surfboard area.
   (B)   Prohibited activity. No person shall ride or operate a bicycle,
skateboard, roller skates, scooter, electric personal assistive mobility device
or any other wheeled device, except a wheelchair or a wheeled device to aid the
person to walk, on any public sidewalk of the following streets within the
village:
      (1)   Elm Street between Ash Street and Sycamore Street.
      (2)   Linden Street between Oak Street and Elm Street.
      (3)   Maple Street between Elm Street and Cherry Street.
(Ord. 161, passed 7-13-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  MANUALLY CONTROLLED CROSSING GATES AT RAILROAD CROSSING.
   Manually controlled crossing gates, which when lowered form a barricade
across Elm Street and the abutting sidewalk on each side of the railroad where
it crosses Elm Street in the village, shall be operated and maintained at all
times by any person, partnership, corporation or combination of same, operating
said railroad through said village.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-3-1947)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.15 or who installs or causes to be installed a tourist-oriented directional
sign without the approval of both the State Department of Transportation and
the Village Council, shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
punishable by a civil fine of not more than $100, plus costs, and if
applicable, damages and expenses as provided by law. A municipal civil
infraction action brought for any violation of §
70.15 shall follow the procedures set forth in Public Act 12 of 1994, M.C.L.A.
§ 600.113, as amended, and a defendant charged with a municipal civil
infraction violation shall have all of the rights, duties, responsibilities and
obligations set forth therein.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
70.16 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
70.16:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
   (D)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
the provisions of §
70.17, shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $100, and the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county jail for
a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 161, passed 7-13-2005; Ord. 200, passed 4-10-
2013)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Rules and regulations
   
71.03   Enforcement of and obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.04   Restrictions as to speed
   
71.05   Turning at intersection
   
71.06   Driving on right side
   
71.07   Overtaking and passing vehicles
   
71.08   Limitation on overtaking and passing
   
71.09   Following too closely
   
71.10   Right-of-way
   
71.11   Reckless driving
   
71.12   Driving while intoxicated
   
71.13   Vehicle left unattended
   
71.14   View or control of driver
   
71.15   Projecting articles
   
71.16   Signals on starting, stopping or turning
   
71.17   Equipment and license
   
71.18   Parades, processions and funerals
   
71.19   Removal of disabled vehicles
   
71.20   Restrictions on backing
   
71.21   Noise and smoke
   
71.22   Accidents
   
71.23   Vehicles passing school buses
   
71.24   Mandatory child restraints and safety belts
   
71.25   Weight restriction on Hickory Street viaduct
   
71.26   General weight limit on village streets
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   Words used in this Title VII shall have their usual and customary meaning;
provided, however, that all words defined in the Michigan Vehicle Code (Public
Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923, as amended) and used
in this title shall have the meaning given in the Michigan Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)
§ 71.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village President is hereby empowered, within the limits
prescribed by statute and this title, to direct and control traffic and to make
rules and regulations.
   (B)   The Village President is empowered, subject to approval of the Village
Council by resolution, to designate through or stop streets, to designate the
location of traffic-control signals, to prescribe the manner and duration of
parking vehicles, to establish loading zones for buses, trucks, taxicabs and
dray stands, to designate the maximum length of any vehicle permitted to park
upon any streets.
   (C)   The Village President is empowered to create quiet and safety zones;
to designate streets or portions thereof to be closed to traffic by reason of
construction or repair; and to designate streets for recreational use and their
hours of use.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)
§ 71.03  ENFORCEMENT OF AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic in conformance with the provisions of this title, provided that, in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, they may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding
the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Members of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, or in an
emergency, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic, and when so
doing shall have the authority of police officers.
   (C)   No person shall do any act forbidden, or shall fail to perform any act
required, in this title, or in the rules and regulations established hereunder.
   (D)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of a police officer.
   (E)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this title,
unless otherwise directed by police officers.
   (F)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “go,” “caution” or “stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, said terms and lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as specified in the
Michigan Vehicle Code (Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§  257.1 through
257.923, as amended).
   (G)   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles
shall apply to Police and Fire Department vehicles of the village, except that
such vehicles may:
      (1)   Park notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red light or stop signal or stop sign, but only
after slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limit so long as life or property is
not in danger;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning so
long as life or property is not in danger; and
      (5)   Drive on the left hand side of any highway, provided life or
property is not in danger.
   (H)  The foregoing exemptions shall not protect the operator of such vehicle
from the consequences of his or her disregard of the property or safety of
others.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  RESTRICTIONS AS TO SPEED.
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle on a street shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and
proper, having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street and
to any other conditions then existing, and no persons shall drive any vehicle
upon a street at a speed greater than will permit him or her to bring it to a
stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of division (A) above and except in those
instances where a lower speed is specified in this title, it shall be prima
facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive the same at a speed not to
exceed the following, but in any case when such speed would be unsafe it shall
not be lawful; 25 mph on all streets in a business or residential district and
25 mph in public parks unless a difference speed is fixed and duly posted; and
12 mph in any alley.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to exceed the foregoing speed limitations except
upon through streets or state trunkline highways where a difference speed limit
is authorized and has been marked by adequate signs giving notice of
permissible speed.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  TURNING AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows: both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be
made as close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway;
approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the
roadway nearest the center line thereof and after entering the intersection the
left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
center line of the roadway being entered.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or “U” turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of
any such sign.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06  DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width all vehicles shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction, when the right half of a roadway is closed to
traffic, and upon one-way streets.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07  OVERTAKING AND PASSING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction except as otherwise provided in this title, shall pass at a safe
distance to the left thereof, and when safely clear of such overtaken vehicle
shall take up a position as near the right-hand edge of the main traveled
portion of the street as is practical.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of an
overtaken vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions, and then only under conditions
permitting such movement in safety; when the vehicle overtaken is making or
about to make a left turn, upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in either direction
and when such vehicles are moving in substantially continuous lanes of traffic.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08  LIMITATION ON OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of a two-lane
street or in the center lane of a three-lane street in overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side or
center lane is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09  FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon the condition of the highway.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10  RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles enter an intersection at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver having so yielded and having
given a proper signal, may make such left turn and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn; provided, that at an
intersection at which a traffic signal is located, a driver intending to make a
left turn shall permit vehicles bound straight through the intersection before
making the turn.
   (C)   All vehicles approaching the intersection of a state trunkline highway
or a street designated by a stop sign as a through street shall come to a full
stop before entering or crossing such highways or through streets.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway or street
from an alley, private road or driveway, shall come to a full stop, before
driving onto a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across such alley, private
road or driveway, and upon entering the roadway portion of said highway or
street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or street carelessly
and heedlessly in willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others
or without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, shall be guilty of
reckless driving.
   (B)   Any person once convicted of reckless driving, upon a second or
subsequent offense shall be charged under the applicable state law and not
under the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12  DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is any habitual user of
narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital or any person who is
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, barbital or any
derivative of barbital, to drive any vehicle upon any street or other public
place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any motor vehicle or any person
having such in charge or in control thereof to authorize or knowingly permit
the same to be driven or operated upon any street or other public place by any
person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of
barbital or any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital.
   (C)   Any person once convicted of driving while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, upon a second or subsequent offense
shall be charged under the applicable state law and not under the provisions of
this title.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13  VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand on any street unattended without first effectively setting the
brakes thereon and stopping the motor of said vehicle, and when standing upon
any grade without turning the wheels towards the curb.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14  VIEW OR CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the
driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No more than three persons shall occupy the front or driver’s seat of
a motor vehicle and no person, adult or minor, nor any animal, shall be seated
or carried in the lap of the driver, or shall the driver be seated in the lap
of a person occupying the front seat when the motor vehicle is in motion.
   (C)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in any position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (D)   The windshield, at all times, in front of the driver shall be kept
clear of dirt, snow and ice, or open so that the driver’s view is unobstructed
to the front of the vehicle at all times.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15  PROJECTING ARTICLES.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be placed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise and at such times as driving conditions shall require, a
red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the sides and rear. At any other time, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16  SIGNALS ON STARTING, STOPPING OR TURNING.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street before starting, stopping or
turning from a direct line shall first see that such movement can be made in
safety and shall give a signal as required by this section.
   (B)   The signal herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm in the manner herein specified, or by a mechanical or electrical signal
device which conveys an intelligible signal or warning to another driver
approaching from the rear.
   (C)   Whenever the signal is given by means of the hand and arm, the driver
shall indicate his or her intention to start, stop or turn by extending the
hand and arm horizontally from and beyond the left side of the vehicle.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17  EQUIPMENT AND LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle or permit the same to be operated
on any street unless the same complies with the Michigan Vehicle Code (Public
Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§  257.1 through 257.923, as amended) in
reference to size, height, weight, construction and equipment and the use,
condition and operation of such equipment.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle unless he or she is licensed as an
operator or chauffeur as required by the state, and unless he or she has the
license so granted in his or her possession at all times while operating a
vehicle. No person shall violate any condition of such license. No person shall
permit an unlicensed driver to operate any vehicle owned by him or her or under
his or her control.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18  PARADES, PROCESSIONS AND FUNERALS.
   (A)   No funeral, procession or parade, excepting the armed forces of the
United States or of this state, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street
except in accordance with a permit issued by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall not issue such permit if its issuance would,
in his or her opinion, create an unnecessary and unwarranted traffic hazard or
interference except upon the order of the Village Council.
   (C)   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as
such by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a flag as required by
the Michigan Vehicle Code.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as is safe.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19  REMOVAL OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled upon a street or because of damage or
other reason cannot be moved by its own power, and consequently blockades the
street or interferes with the use of the same by other vehicles, it shall be
the duty of its owner and its operator to remove it by towing or otherwise
within a reasonable time, and upon the owner’s failure to remove the vehicle
within a reasonable time the vehicle may be removed as provided in §
72.23.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20  RESTRICTIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall back the same, unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection
or over a crosswalk and shall not in any event on any street or alley back his
or her vehicle more than 60 feet.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21  NOISE AND SMOKE.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any vehicle shall make with such
vehicle or any device connected with same, any noise so excessive as to annoy
the public, or unnecessarily race his or her motor while running idle, or open,
remove or detach, the muffler of any vehicle, or permit the muffler to remain
open, removed or detached while the motor of such vehicle is running, or permit
such vehicle or any device thereon to emit an unnecessary quantity of smoke,
obnoxious gases, flames or vapors.
   (B)   No person shall drive or propel upon the paved streets in the village
any steam engine, thrashing machine or other machines or equipment or vehicles
of any kind which may injure or damage the pavement of such street without the
written permission of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22  ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in any accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person shall immediately comply with the requirements of the
Michigan Vehicle Code (Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§  257.1 through
257.923, as amended) with regard to stopping, giving information and rendering
assistance. Any person failing to comply with said requirements shall be
charged under the applicable state law and not under this chapter.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only to
damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately
stop at the scene of such accident and shall give his or her name, address and
the registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, also the name and
address of the owner and exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license
to the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or, if such
owner cannot be located, shall forthwith report it to the nearest or most
convenient police officer.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in
damage to fixtures legally upon or adjacent to a street shall take reasonable
steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such property of
such accident and of his or her name and address and of the registration number
of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request exhibit his or her
operator’s license, and if such owner cannot be found, shall forthwith report
such accident to the nearest or most convenient police officer.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23  VEHICLES PASSING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake, or meet and pass any
school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
passengers.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking or meeting any school bus which has
stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging any passengers, shall bring
such vehicle to a full stop at least ten feet from the school bus, and shall
not proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the school bus driver
signals to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. The driver of
the school bus before resuming motion shall signal stopped traffic to proceed
and shall, when resuming motion, proceed in such manner as to allow congested
traffic to disperse by keeping the bus as near to the right side of the road as
can be done with safety. Passengers crossing the road upon being discharged
from a school bus shall cross in front of a stopped school bus. At an
intersection where traffic is controlled by an officer or a traffic stop-and-go
signal, a vehicle need not be brought to a full stop before passing any such
bus but may proceed past such school bus at a speed no greater than is
reasonable and proper and in no event greater than ten mph and with due caution
for the safety of passengers being received or discharged from such school bus.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon any highway which has been divided into
two roadways by leaving an intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or
clearly indicated dividing sections so constructed as to impede vehicular
traffic, need not stop upon meeting a school bus which has stopped in the
roadway across the dividing space, barrier or section.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-2-1961)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24  MANDATORY CHILD RESTRAINTS AND SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   Mandatory child restraints.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, or as otherwise provided by
law, a rule promulgated pursuant to Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§
24.201 through 24.328 as amended, or federal regulation, each driver
transporting a child in a motor vehicle shall properly secure each child in a
child restraint system as follows:
         (a)   Any child less than one year of age in a child restraint system
which meets the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213;
         (b)   Any child one year of age or more but less than four years of
age when transported in the front seat, in a child restraint system which meets
the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213; and
         (c)   Any child one year of age or more but less than four years of
age when transported in the rear seat, in a child restraint system which meets
the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213, unless the child is secured by
a safety belt provided in the motor vehicle.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a nonresident driver transporting a
child in this state or to any child being nursed.
      (3)   This section does not apply if the motor vehicle being driven is a
bus, school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle or other motor vehicle not required
to be equipped with safety belts under M.C.L.A. § 257.710B or federal law or
regulations.
   (B)   Mandatory safety belt usage.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to a driver or passenger of:
         (a)   A motor vehicle manufactured before January 1, 1965;
         (b)   A bus;
         (c)   A motorcycle;
         (d)   A moped;
         (e)   A motor vehicle if the driver or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician that the driver is unable to wear a safety belt
for physical or medical reasons;
         (f)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with safety
belts under federal law;
         (g)   A commercial or United States postal service vehicle which makes
frequent stops for the purpose of pickup or delivery of goods or services; or
         (h)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural carrier of the United States
postal service while serving his or her rural postal route.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to a passenger of a school bus.
      (3)   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on
a street or highway in this state shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt, except that a child less than four years of age shall be protected
as required in this section. Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a
child four years of age or more but less than 16 years of age in the front seat
of the motor vehicle shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt.
      (4)   Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when a driver of a motor vehicle has been detained for a
suspected violation of another traffic ordinance, statute, chapter, section or
rule.
(Ord. 101, passed 11-14-1990)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.25  WEIGHT RESTRICTION ON HICKORY STREET VIADUCT.
   From and after the effective date of this section, the viaduct, or bridge,
on Hickory Street over the Penn Central Railroad right-of-way in said village
shall be limited solely to the use of passenger vehicles or pickup trucks
having a gross weight of not to exceed five tons. All other trucks, semi-
trucks, farm tractors, self-propelled farm machinery, farm machinery and any
other type vehicle, conveyance or equipment exceeding five tons in gross weight
are strictly prohibited from crossing said viaduct.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-5-1973)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26  GENERAL WEIGHT LIMIT ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   (A)   On and after the effective date of this section it shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to propel or drive any vehicle whose gross
weight exceeds 18,000 pounds on the streets enumerated in division (B) below.
   (B)   All streets within the corporate limits of the village except Ash
Street, except as may be required for loading and unloading purposes and to
access the truck-tractor and trailer parking area, by the most direct route
thereto available.
   (C)   The Village Street Commissioner is hereby authorized and empowered to
post all streets enumerated in division (B) above in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 31, passed - -1962; Ord. 127, passed 4-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, his, her, or their employee or agent violating the
provisions of §§
71.01 through
71.21 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 and not more than $100
and costs of prosecution, or imprisoned in the county jail not to exceed 90
days or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
71.23 or §
71.25 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $100 and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
   (D)   A person who violates §
71.24 is responsible for a civil infraction.
   (E)   (1)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
71.26 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
71.26:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of §
71.26 continues, constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952; Ord. 29, passed 3-2-1961; Ord. 51, passed 4-5-1973;
Ord. 101, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING
Section
Parking Violations Bureau
   
72.01   Establishment
   
72.02   Duties of Village Clerk
   
72.03   Violations to be disposed of by Bureau
   
72.04   Violation to be settled only at request of violator
   
72.05   Traffic ticket or notice of violation
   
72.06   Schedule of offenses and fines
Parking Regulations
   
72.20   Obedience to parking signs
   
72.21   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.22   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.23   Removal of vehicles parked in violation
   
72.24   Overnight parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 72.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, M.C.L.A. § 600.8395, as
added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a Parking
Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking violations
within the village is hereby established. The Parking Violations Bureau shall
be under the supervision and control of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.02  DUTIES OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall, subject to the approval of the Village Council,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint a
suitable person or persons to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation of the Bureau.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.03  VIOLATIONS TO BE DISPOSED OF BY BUREAU.
   No violation that is not scheduled in §
72.06 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau. The fact that a
particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau, and in any case, the person in
charge of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation.  In such a case,
any person having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any
court having jurisdiction of the offense provided by law.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.04  VIOLATION TO BE SETTLED ONLY AT REQUEST OF VIOLATOR.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of the parking violation at
the Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any
such violations processed for a court having jurisdiction thereof, if so
desired. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges and protection according to him or her by the law.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.05  TRAFFIC TICKET OR NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of the parking violation. Such
traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in
which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking
Violations Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours
in which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the
offense for which the ticket was issued, advise that a warrant for the arrest
of the person to whom the ticket was issued will be issued if such a person
fails to respond within the time limited. The Bureau may provide self-addressed
envelopes for distribution to violators who may utilize such envelopes for
mailing fines into the Bureau if they so desire rather than appear in person.
Mailing in such a voluntary fine shall constitute complete acquittance by the
violator under this subchapter.
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
§ 72.06  SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES.
Uniform Traffic Code Violations
Offense UTC Section Penalty
Uniform Traffic Code Violations
Offense                                                               UTC     Penalty
                                                                      Section
Abandoned vehicle plus towing and storage charge                              $5
All night parking in prohibited area                                          $2
Angle parking violation                                               (8.3)   $2
Bicycle parking violations                                            (6.17)  $1
Disabled vehicle, failure to move                                             $10
Failure to set brakes                                                 (5.58)  $3
In an alley                                                           (.13)   $3
In prohibited zone (signs required)                                   (8.10)  $3
Loading zone violations                                               (8.17,  $2
                                                                      8.16)
Obstructing traffic                                                   (8.5)   $5
Parking between the sidewalk and the curb                                     $3
Parking for prohibited purpose                                        (8.14)
   (1)   Displaying advertising                                         $3
   (2)   Displaying vehicle for sale                                    $3
   (3)   Parking over 48 hours                                          $5
   (4)   Selling merchandise                                            $3
   (5)   Working or repairing vehicle                                   $3
Parking on private property, without the owner’s consent                    $5
Parking too far from curb                                             (8.1,   $2
                                                                      8.2)
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary)                                (8.10)
   (1)   Blocking emergency exit                                        $5
   (2)   Blocking fire escape                                           $5
   (3)   Double parking                                                 $5
   (4)   In front of drive                                              $5
   (5)   In front of theater                                            $3
   (6)   On a bridge or viaduct                                         $10
   (7)   On crosswalk                                                   $5
   (8)   On the sidewalk                                                $5
   (9)   Side street when traffic obstructed                            $5
   (10) Within intersection                                                $10
   (11) Within 15 feet of a hydrant                                        $5
   (12) Within 20 feet of crosswalk or 15 feet of corner lines             $5
   (13) Within 20 feet of fire station entrance                            $5
   (14) Within 30 feet of street side traffic sign or signal               $5
   (15) Within 50 feet of a railroad crossing                              $5
   (16) Within 75 feet of fire station entrance on opposite side of        $5
  street (signs required)
   (17) Within 200 feet of accident where police are in attendance         $3
 
(Ord. 45, passed 6-5-1969)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 72.20  OBEDIENCE TO PARKING SIGNS.
    No person shall park or stand a vehicle upon the portion of any street upon
which authorized signs or markings have been erected designating the manner or
length of time or parking, in a manner or for a length of time contrary to such
posted signs or markings.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the
directions of a police officer or a traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection;
   (C)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (D)   On a crosswalk;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street; or
   (J)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22  PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street or alley, in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet from the center
of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, and no persons shall
stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES PARKED IN VIOLATION.
   The Chief of Police and any member of the Police Department shall have the
authority to remove all vehicles parked in violation of this subchapter, and
any vehicle so removed shall be taken into custody of the Police Department and
not released until the reasonable costs of such removal are paid to the Police
Department.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24  OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   (A)   No motor vehicle or motorcycle shall be parked on any street or
village parking lot in the village between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
at any time.
   (B)   Signs showing the prohibition against overnight parking shall be
posted on all principal streets used for entrance into the village.
(Ord. 63, passed 8-5-1976)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm their employee or agent, violating the provisions of
§§
72.20 through
72.23 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 and not more than $100
and costs of prosecution, or imprisoned in the county jail not to exceed 90
days or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
   (C)   (1)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of §
72.24, or
Chapter 73, is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment
of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
72.24 or
Chapter 73:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of §
72.24 or Chapter 73 continues, constitutes a separate offense and shall be
subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
(Ord. 21, passed - -1952; Ord. 63, passed 8-5-1976; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking time limited
      
II.   Parking prohibited during certain hours
      
III.   Parallel parking
      
IV.   Angle parking
      
V.   Double parking
      
VI.   Truck parking prohibited
      
VII.   Loading and unloading prohibited
SCHEDULE I:  PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   No motor vehicle or motorcycle shall be parked for a period of time
exceeding two hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except
Sunday, on the following streets in the village:
 
Street          Location
Elm Street      Between Ash Street (US 12) and Sycamore Street
Elm Street      Between Linden and Maple Street
Elm Street      Between Maple Street and Sycamore Street
Linden Street   Between St. John United Church of Christ and Oak Street
Maple Street    Between Elm Street and Cherry Street
Sycamore Street Between Elm Street and Cherry Street
 
(Ord. 18, passed 6-3-1948; Ord. 19, passed 5-5-1949; Ord. 63, passed 8-5-1976) 
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II:  PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall park a motor vehicle
in the following locations, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. with
the exception of Sundays and legal holidays.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Schedule II, the word PERSON is hereby defined
to mean either the operator or the owner of a motor vehicle or truck as the
case may be.
 
Street        Location
              South side of street, between Elm Street and the east line of Lot
Linden Street 9 of the Subdivision of the east half of southeast quarter of
              Section 3, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
 
   (C)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who shall violate the
provisions of this schedule II, shall upon conviction be fined not less than $1
nor more than $100 or sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail not to
exceed 90 days, or both in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-5-1952)
SCHEDULE III:  PARALLEL PARKING.
   Parking on the following streets shall be restricted to parallel parking as
specified:
 
Street             Location and Specifications
                   All portions where the pavement width is 33 feet, or less,
North Elm Street   measured from back to back of existing curbs, parallel
                   parking on one side only as designated by signs posted
                   thereon; angle parking prohibited
                   All portions where the pavement width is 33 feet, or less,
South Elm Street   measured from back to back of existing curbs, parallel
                   parking on one side only as designated by signs posted
                   thereon; angle parking prohibited
West Locust Street Parallel parking on one side only as designated by signs
                   posted thereon
 
(Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1973)  Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE IV:  ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be permitted on those portions of the following streets
as designated by signs posted to permit such parking:
   (A)   East Linden Street; and
   (B)   Maple Street.
(Ord. 54, passed 5-3-1973)  Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE V:  DOUBLE PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in the following locations
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 16
feet of the width of the street for free movement of vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals of a police officer.
 
Street     Location
Elm Street Between Ash Street and Sycamore Street
 
(Ord. 16, passed 4-1-1948)  Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE VI:  TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, partnership or corporation shall park a truck of any kind
on the following streets:
 
Street     Location where Prohibited
Elm Street Between Ash Street and Sycamore Street
 
(Ord. 18, passed 6-3-1948)  Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE VII:  LOADING AND UNLOADING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, partnership, firm or corporation using a vehicle to supply
goods, wares and merchandise to any business establishment on the following
streets shall place such vehicle on said portion of the street for the purposes
of loading and unloading such goods, wares and merchandise.
   (B)   For the purpose of this Schedule VII, the word PERSON as used herein
is defined to mean either the operator or the owner of said vehicle, or both as
the case may be.
 
Street     Location
Elm Street Between Linden Street and Maple Street
 
(Ord. 17, passed 4-1-1948; Ord. passed 6-3-1948)  Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
90.01   Dogs running at large
   
90.02   Removal of animal defecation from public and private properties
   
90.03   Restrictions on number of dogs and cats
   
90.04   Exception to restrictions on number of dogs or cats
   
90.05   Location of doghouses, pens and kennels
   
90.06   Dogs creating a nuisance
   
90.07   Guard dogs and attack dogs
Other Animals
   
90.20   Restriction on the number of animals other than dogs and cats
   
90.21   Animals at large
   
90.22   Animals creating a nuisance
   
90.23   Maintenance of livestock or poultry
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.01  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any dog to run at large anywhere outdoors in the
village. This regulation shall apply to all public places and to all private
property. No person shall permit any dog to be out of doors in any place unless
the dog is on a leash held by a person able to control the dog. The dog may be
left unattended out of doors in a yard with a fence adequate to prevent the dog
from leaving the yard or fastened to a chain of adequate strength to prevent
the dog from leaving the yard. Within one hour after a dog escapes from either
the owner or person having the custody of the animal, the owner or custodian of
the animal shall report the escape of said animal to the Police Department.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  REMOVAL OF ANIMAL DEFECATION FROM PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTIES.
   An owner or person having custody of any dog or any other animal shall not
permit said dog or other animal to defecate on any school ground, public
street, alley, sidewalk, tree bark, park or any other public grounds or any
private property within the village, other than the premises of the owner or
person having custody of said dog or other animal, unless said defecation is
removed immediately.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   Not more than two dogs or two cats shall be allowed in the residence or
apartment of the owner or the person who has custody of a dog or cat. Any
residence may contain both two dogs and two cats.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  EXCEPTION TO RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   The owner or person who has custody of a dog or cat may retain the
puppies or kittens, born of said dog or cat exceeding the permissible numbers
set forth in §
90.03 for 12 weeks after the birth of the animals. If, after that time, there
are more than two dogs and two cats in any one residence or apartment, the
owner or person in custody of the dogs or cats will be in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who lawfully owned more than two dogs or two cats prior to
the enactment of this chapter may retain their animals, provided they obtain a
special permit from the Chief of Police. The special permit shall be for a term
of one year and no renewal shall be issued without a subsequent inspection.
      (1)   If for any reason an animal is lost, sold, given away or dies and
there still remains in the residence or apartment two or more dogs or two or
more cats there can be no replacement of the lost, sold, given away or deceased
animal.
      (2)   A special permit shall be issued if, after an inspection, it is
determined by the Chief of Police that:
         (a)   The animals in the owner’s possession are not creating a
nuisance;
         (b)   There is adequate waste disposal; and
         (c)   There is no hazard to public safety, health and welfare.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  LOCATION OF DOGHOUSES, PENS AND KENNELS.
   No doghouse, pen or kennel shall be maintained closer than 40 feet to any
apartment house, residential condominium, hotel, restaurant, boarding house,
retail food store, building used for school, religious or hospital purposes or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which said dogs are kept.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  DOGS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   No person shall own, keep, have in possession or harbor any dog which, by
frequent or habitual howling, yelping or barking, shall cause a nuisance by
creating a serious annoyance or disturbance to any individual or to the
neighborhood. No person shall keep any cat that, by crying loudly or calling
loudly shall cause a nuisance by creating a serious annoyance or disturbance to
any individual or to the neighborhood. This section shall not apply to any
licensed kennel or licensed veterinary hospital.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  GUARD DOGS AND ATTACK DOGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term GUARD DOG or ATTACK DOG means any
dog intended to attack intruders, whether the dog has been trained to do so or
the dog does so without training.
   (B)   No person shall leave any guard dog or attack dog unattended in any
place in or out of any building unless a warning sign has been placed in a
clearly visible location at the premises, located so that it can be seen by any
person before entering the place to which the dog has access, warning that a
guard dog or attack dog is present.
   (C)   No guard dog or attack dog shall be left unattended in any place
except inside a building or out of doors in a fenced yard, with a fence
adequate to prevent the dog from leaving the yard.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.20  RESTRICTION ON THE NUMBER OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS.
   No more than two each of any other domestic or wild animals more than four
months old shall be kept or housed on any premises within the village limits,
except a special permit shall be issued for the keeping of any of such
creatures only when such animals were being lawfully kept on such lot prior to
the enactment of this chapter, or where, due to the conditions, size of the lot
or acreage involved and distances from other premises, no nuisance will be
created thereby. Each special permit shall be granted for the term of one year
and no renewal shall be granted without an inspection of the premises by the
Chief of Police and a finding of fact to the effect that no nuisance will be
created thereby.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall suffer or permit any domestic or wild animal of which he or
she is the owner, caretaker or custodian to be at large within the village. Any
such creature shall be deemed to be at large when it shall be off the premises
owned or rented by its owner and unaccompanied by the owner or an agent or
employee of the owner. Any such creature may be impounded by the village.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor or have in his or her possession any
animal which causes a serious annoyance or disturbance to any individual or to
the neighborhood. An individual may be prosecuted pursuant to this section only
if that particular animal is habitually disturbing any individual or being a
nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  MAINTENANCE OF LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY.
   (A)   No person or persons, partnership or corporation or combination
thereof, shall maintain cattle, swine, sheep, goats, horses or other livestock
within the corporate limits of said village, except that the place of
maintaining same shall be more than 200 feet from any building then being used
for dwelling purposes within said village.
   (B)   No person or persons, partnership or corporation or combination
thereof, shall maintain poultry within the corporate limits of said village,
unless same are confined to a coop or yard by fence, building or other type of
enclosure.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500,
plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 86, passed 5-2-1985; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
Weeds and Grasses
   
91.01   Weed growth prohibited
   
91.02   Duty of owner
   
91.03   Cutting by village
   
91.04   Notice of requirements
   
91.05   Exemptions
Junk, Trash, Rubbish, Abandoned Vehicles and the Like
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Determination
   
91.22   Accumulation of trash, junk, abandoned vehicles and the like
   
91.23   Keeping or maintaining blighted structures
   
91.24   Unfinished structures
   
91.25   Notice of violation
   
91.26   Storage of building materials
   
91.27   Removal of abandoned vehicle
Bulk Storage of Petroleum Products
   
91.40   Definition
   
91.41   Nuisance condition
   
91.42   Application for approval from Village Council
   
91.43   Approval of application by Village Council
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Second Hand Dealers, Junk Shops and Junk Dealers, see
Chapter 114
WEEDS AND GRASSES
§ 91.01  WEED GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person owning any premises shall permit or maintain on any such
premises any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth of grass or other rank
vegetation to a greater height than six inches on the average; nor any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush on any lot less than one acre in
size. On lots in excess of one acre in size, no person owning any premises
shall permit or maintain within 50  feet from the edge of the street or
property line, any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth of grass or other
rank vegetation to a greater height than six inches on the average; nor any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
   (B)   NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders
(any species of Custcuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian
mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed
(Convolvulus arvensis), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum
(Berteroa incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior I.), poison ivy (rhus
toxicondendron) and poison sumac (toxicondendron vernix).
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any premises within the village to cut
and remove or destroy by lawful means all such noxious weeds and grass as often
as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of §
91.01.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  CUTTING BY VILLAGE.
   If the provisions of the foregoing sections are not complied with, the
Police Chief shall serve, either personally or by regular first class mail,
written notice upon the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care
or control of any such lot or land to comply with the provisions of this
section. Posting a notice of the violation upon the property shall be deemed to
be adequate notice. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails to cut
or remove such weeds, grass or other vegetation within 48 hours after receipt
of such notice or if no owner can be found of such lot, the Police Chief shall
cause such weeds, grass and other vegetation to be removed and the actual cost
of such cutting and removal, plus 25% for inspection and other additional costs
in connection therewith, shall be certified by the Police Chief to the Village
Treasurer and shall become a lien upon the property on which such weeds, grass
and other vegetation were located, and shall be assessed and collected in the
same manner provided for collection of taxes. This notice shall suffice for the
entire growing season. If the provisions of §
91.02 are again not complied with, the Police Chief shall have the right to
cause such weeds, grass and other vegetation to be removed as provided for
herein without additional notice.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997; Ord. 204, passed 8-13-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  NOTICE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall on or before May 1 of each year give notice of the
requirements and provisions of this subchapter by publishing a notice thereof
once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 91.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   Exempted from the provisions of this subchapter are flower gardens, plots of
shrubbery, vegetable gardens, and small grain plots. An exemption under the
terms of this section cannot be claimed unless the land has been cultivated and
cared for in a manner appropriate to such exempt categories.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)
JUNK, TRASH, RUBBISH, ABANDONED VEHICLES AND THE LIKE
§ 91.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  Includes, but not by way of limitation, any vehicle
which has remained on private property for a period of 48 continuous hours, or
more, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the property, or for a
period of 48 continuous hours or more after the consent of the owner or
occupant of the property has been revoked.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE.  Includes, but not by way of limitation, any dwelling,
garage or outbuilding, or any factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse
or any other structure or part of a structure which, because of fire, wind or
other natural disaster, or physical deterioration, is no longer habitable as a
dwelling, nor useful for the purpose for which it may have been intended.
   BUILDING MATERIALS.  Includes, but not by way of limitation, lumber, brick,
concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment,
heating ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete, cement or any other
materials used in constructing any structure.
   JUNK.  Includes, but not by way of limitation, parts of machinery or motor
vehicles, broken and unusable furniture, stoves, refrigerators or other
appliances, remnants of wood, metal or any other cast-off material of any kind,
whether or not the same could be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.  Includes, but not by way of limitation, any vehicle
which is not licensed for use upon the highways of the state for a period in
excess of 60 days, and shall also include, whether licensed or not, any motor
vehicle which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess of 60 days;
provided, that there is excepted from this definition unlicensed, but
operative, vehicles which are kept as the stock in trade of a regularly
licensed and established dealer in new or used automobile or other motorized
vehicles, provided, further that the time limit such vehicles may remain upon
the premises of a motor vehicle repair garage shall be a period of 120 days
rather than 60 days, with extension of additional 30-day period upon
presentation to the enforcing officer of written proof the offending vehicle is
involved in insurance claim litigation or a similar matter and additional time
is required for settlement before a vehicle can be moved.
   PERSON.  Includes all natural persons, firms, copartnerships, corporations
and all associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated,
whether acting by themselves, or by a servant, agent or employee. All persons
who violate any of the provisions of this subchapter, whether as owner,
occupant, lessee, agent, servant or employee shall, except as herein otherwise
provided, be equally liable as principals.
   TRASH and RUBBISH.  Include any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
classified.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)
§ 91.21  DETERMINATION.
   It is hereby determined that the storage or accumulation of trash, rubbish,
junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, building materials and the maintenance
of blighted structures upon any private property within the village tends to
result in blighted and deteriorated neighborhoods, the spread of vermin and
disease, the increase in criminal activity and therefore is contrary to the
public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the community.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)
§ 91.22  ACCUMULATION OF TRASH, JUNK, ABANDONED VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, or to permit the storage or
accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles on
any private property in the village except within a completely enclosed
building or upon the premises of a properly zoned and licensed or approved junk
dealer, junk buyer, dealer in used auto parts, dealer in second hand goods or
junk gatherer.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23  KEEPING OR MAINTAINING BLIGHTED STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted
structure, dwelling, garage, outbuilding, factory, shop, store or warehouse.
Vacant but still usable buildings and structures must be kept securely locked,
the windows kept glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent
entrance thereto by unauthorized persons.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24  UNFINISHED STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any unfinished structure, dwelling, garage,
outbuilding, factory, shop, store, warehouse or other building to stand
unfinished in the village wherever such use shall constitute a menace to public
health and safety or contribute to the blight of a neighborhood. This section
shall be applicable wherever construction was begun in an authorized manner and
no work in good faith has been done for a continuous period of six months
toward completing the structure or building, or wherever a building or
structure has been moved upon the premises and is permitted to stand unfinished
for a continuous period of six months or longer. Whenever the strict
enforcement of this section would work an unnecessary hardship, the Village
Council may grant such extension of time for the completion of the building or
structure as may be deemed just under all the facts and circumstances so long
as good faith is demonstrated by the appellant and the spirit of this
subchapter is preserved.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   After written notice is given by the Village Clerk to the owner of record of
any property within the village that a violation exists under §
91.23 or §
91.24 of this subchapter such owner shall within 30 days begin completion of
construction or repairs or raze the blighted structure and clear and clean up
the site, and promptly proceed to the final abatement of such use within a
reasonable time.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)
§ 91.26  STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage or
accumulation of building materials on any private property, except in a
completely enclosed building or except where such building materials are part
of the stock in trade or a business located on said property, or except when
such materials are being used in the current construction of a structure on the
property, and unless such construction is completed within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   The Chief of Police on his or her own authority may remove or cause to be
removed any junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle, or parts of either, from any
public street without notice of any kind to the owner. In those cases where
junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of either, are stored on any
unenclosed private property, the Village Council may authorize the Chief of
Police to serve notice, in writing, on the owner or occupant of such property
or the owner of the vehicle, if known, of the village’s intention to remove
such vehicle. Such notice shall be served personally upon the owner or occupant
or it may be posted in a conspicuous place upon vacant or unoccupied property
and shall be served or posted at least seven days prior to such removal.
Failure to remove any junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle, or parts of either,
within the time specified in such notice shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter. Such junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of either, shall
be removed and disposed of in accordance with the law. Such removal by the
designated enforcement official shall not excuse or relieve any person of the
obligation imposed by this subchapter to keep his or her property free from
storage or accumulation of junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles, or parts of
either, nor from the penalties for violation thereof.
(Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966)  Penalty, see §
91.99
BULK STORAGE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
§ 91.40  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the phrase BULK STORAGE OF PETROLEUM
PRODUCTS is defined as the storing of petroleum products in any single tank or
container, the capacity of which exceeds 275 gallons.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947)
§ 91.41  NUISANCE CONDITION.
   The location, construction, installation and maintenance of facilities for
the bulk storage of petroleum products within the village without the approval
of the Village Council as herein provided is hereby expressly prohibited and is
hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42  APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL FROM VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Before locating, constructing and/or installing facilities for the bulk
storage of petroleum products and/or extensions and additions thereto within
the village, any person, firm or corporation desiring to do so shall first make
written application for approval of the contemplated location, manner of
construction, manner of installation and maintenance thereof to the Village
Council. Such application shall be filed with the Village Clerk and such
application shall contain a description of the contemplated location, manner of
construction, installation and maintenance thereof and in addition thereto
shall contain information concerning the distance between the contemplated
location and adjacent buildings. Said application shall be executed by the
person, firm or corporation intending to locate, construct, install and/or
maintain facilities for the bulk storage of petroleum products and/or
extensions and additions thereto, within the village, or by his or her or its
duly authorized agent and said application shall then be filed with the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43  APPROVAL OF APPLICATION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of such written application as described in §
91.42, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to present same to the Village
Council at the next succeeding general or special meeting of said Village
Council for approval by said Village Council.  If the Village Council shall
find that the proposal contained in said application does not unreasonably
affect the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of said
village, the Village Council shall then adopt a resolution approving said
application, and the Village Clerk shall immediately notify the applicant of
the action of the Village Council concerning said application by mailing to the
applicant a certified copy of the resolution of the Council setting forth its
action. A certified copy of a resolution of approval shall constitute a permit
for the applicant to proceed with the location, construction, installation and
maintenance of facilities for the bulk storage of petroleum products and/or
extensions and additions thereto, with the village.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, partnership or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.05 or
91.20 through
91.27 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
the sections listed in division (B) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
91.40 through
91.43 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90
days or by both such fine and imprisonment, and each day that a violation shall
be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-6-1947; Ord. 39, passed 4-14-1966; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995; Ord. 124, passed 5-14-1997)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction of Sidewalks
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   New construction, reconstruction or replacement; resolution; notice;
public hearing
   
92.03   Cost of construction; replacement; certain repairs
   
92.04   Liability of property owner
   
92.05   Permit required; exception
   
92.06   Specifications, standards and inspection
   
92.07   Construction, reconstruction or replacement by village; lien
   
92.08   Repair or maintenance; notice; performed by village; lien
   
92.09   Construction, reconstruction, replacement or repair in conjunction with
street project
   
92.10   Lien; recovery of village expenses
   
92.11   Enforcement; appearance tickets
Use of Streets
   
92.25   Prohibiting operation of tractors or machinery with lugs over streets
   
92.26   Prohibiting dumping on streets, alleys and public places
Management and Regulation of Streets and Public Rights-of-Way
   
92.35   Compliance required
   
92.36   Placement of wires
   
92.37   Permits, applications, fees and obstructions
   
92.38   Insurance and bonds
   
92.39   Prohibition after paving or resurfacing
   
92.40   General regulations pertaining to construction, repair, excavations,
and obstructions
   
92.41   Removal of encroachment
   
92.42   Complete installation
   
92.43   Supplemental street construction, repair and maintenance regulations
   
92.44   Street vacation
   
92.45   Street names
   
92.46   Relocation of buildings
   
92.47   Damage by tree or bush
   
92.48   As-builts
   
92.49   Violations; cease work
   
92.50   Notice
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of bicycles and other wheeled vehicles on sidewalks, see §
70.16
CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER.  A person who is a fee OWNER, whether as a tenant in common or in a
joint or entireties capacity. In the case of a recorded land contract, the
OWNER shall be the vendee thereon. A person whose ownership is only as security
for a debt shall not be considered the OWNER with the OWNER being the person
entitled to equitable possession.
   SIDEWALK.  A concrete foot path designed for pedestrian use by the public
which is situated within the public right-of-way of a public street, highway or
road. The term shall not include any portion of a driveway between a street and
a proposed or existing sidewalk or a private walkway or foot path, nor any area
open to vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.02  NEW CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT; RESOLUTION; NOTICE;
PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the Village Council may by
resolution require the owners of lots or premises to construct sidewalks in the
public street right-of-way adjacent to or abutting upon such lots and premises
at locations where sidewalks are absent or have not previously existed; or to
reconstruct sidewalks at locations where the Village Council determines that
existing sidewalks are determined to require substantial repair such that
replacement with new sidewalks is proper. The resolution shall contain a
description of the sidewalk to be constructed, reconstructed or replaced, and
specify the period of time for performance. A certified copy of said resolution
shall be mailed by first class mail to each property owner of lots of premises
adjacent to or abutting said sidewalks or proposed sidewalks at the address
shown on the last general tax assessment roll of the village, and to each party
in interest whose name and address appears on said tax assessment roll.
   (B)   The resolution by the Village Council shall be preceded by a notice
and by a public hearing at which matters pertaining to new construction or to
the reconstruction or replacement of sidewalks, the period of time in which the
acts shall be performed and all other related matters shall be addressed and
considered. Property owners and parties in interest of adjacent or abutting
lots or premises shall be provided with notice providing a description of the
proposed work and the period of time for performance, and the date, time and
place of the public hearing. The notice shall be in writing and shall be served
in the manner prescribed in division (A) above not less than ten days prior to
the date of hearing. Notice shall also be made by one publication in a
newspaper published or circulated within the village. Publication shall be made
not less than seven days prior to the date of hearing. Property owners and
other interested parties may address the Village Council in person or by
representative, or in writing.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.03  COST OF CONSTRUCTION; REPLACEMENT; CERTAIN REPAIRS.
   The cost of new sidewalk construction, or reconstruction or replacement of
existing sidewalk, and of sidewalk repairs, shall be paid by the owner of the
property adjacent to or abutting thereon. At the discretion of the Village
Council, the expense of new sidewalk construction or of the reconstruction or
replacement of existing sidewalk, and the expense of sidewalk repairs exceeding
$500, may be paid by the establishment of a special assessment against the
adjacent/abutting property or by such other method as established by the
Village Council.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.04  LIABILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of lots or premises
adjacent to or abutting upon sidewalks that the same shall be kept at all times
in good repair and safe for pedestrian use, free of hazard and maintained as
herein provided; and the owner shall assume and pay the expense of repair,
maintenance and freedom from hazards. Sidewalk repairs shall consist of the
filling with concrete of cracks, hollows or crevices, and the correction of any
other condition of disrepair which presents a hazard to pedestrians. Sidewalk
maintenance shall consist of the removal of weeds, grass or other vegetation
from cracks or crevices in the surface of a sidewalk, and the removal or
trimming of tree limbs, shrubbery or other vegetation which restrict the full
use of a sidewalk for pedestrian travel or which constitute a hazard to
pedestrians. Freedom from hazards shall consist of removal of ice, snow and any
other object or condition hazardous to pedestrian travel.
   (B)   The failure, neglect or refusal of a property owner to keep in good
repair a sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon lands owned by him or her, and
safe for use as a public pedestrian way, or to maintain a sidewalk as
aforesaid, shall constitute a civil infraction, and the property owner shall,
upon being found responsible, be subject to the penalties provided for
municipal civil infractions.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005; Ord. 164, passed 11-9-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) above, no person shall construct,
reconstruct, replace or repair any sidewalk without first obtaining a written
permit from the village prior to the commencement of such work. A permit shall
be prominently displayed at the work site.
   (B)   Minor sidewalk repairs which do not exceed one square foot in any
single place or ten square feet in total combined area adjacent to a lot or
premises may be performed by the property owner or his or her contractor
without the necessity of obtaining a permit. No permit is required for usual
and customary maintenance of sidewalks.   
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  SPECIFICATIONS, STANDARDS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, replace or repair any sidewalk
except in accordance with the line, grade, slope and specifications approved by
the village, or without first complying with the provisions of §
92.05 above.
   (B)   Whenever practical, the village shall direct that the construction of
a sidewalk be on a line parallel with the edge of the public right-of-way;
provided that exceptions may be made for aesthetic design or preservation of
substantial trees.
   (C)   Line and grade stakes as may be necessary for proper control of the
work shall be approved by the village; provided, however, that the approval
shall not relieve the owner of the responsibility for making careful and
accurate measurements in sidewalk construction, reconstruction, replacement or
repair.
   (D)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of four-inch thick, 3,000 pound per
square inch portland cement concrete poured on a compacted base. Sidewalks
shall be five feet in width, provided, however, that the village may approve a
greater or lesser width for the purposes of conformity of new or replacement
sidewalks with existing connecting sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed with
a slope toward the center of the right-of-way and constructed to the grades
specified by the village. Contraction joints shall be spaced every five feet
and expansion joints shall be spaced at least every 40 feet of length. One-half
inch thick, six-inch wide expansion joints shall be constructed where a
sidewalk touches a street curb. The Village Council, upon the recommendation of
the Department of Public Works and a finding of unique or special circumstances
with respect to a particular sidewalk or portion thereof, may alter or add to
said specifications as deemed necessary for proper construction,
reconstruction, replacement or repair.
   (E)   A property owner undertaking to construct, reconstruct, replace or
repair a sidewalk (with the exception of minor sidewalk repair as provided in
division (B) above) shall notify the village no less than 48 hours prior to
commencement thereof. The work shall not proceed until the village shall have
inspected the rails and subgrade and approved the work as in conformance with
slope, grade and other specifications. The sidewalk shall also be subject to
the approval of the village by a final inspection performed after all work has
been completed.
   (F)   The location and specifications of sidewalks shall be shown on site
development and grading plans for a new structure under consideration by the
Building Official for issuance of a building permit, and the same shall be
approved by the village prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION OR REPLACEMENT BY VILLAGE; LIEN.
   If an owner of lots or premises shall fail, neglect or refuse to construct,
reconstruct or replace any sidewalk adjacent to or abutting upon property owned
by him or her in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter within the
period of time specified in a resolution so to do as provided in §
92.02(A), the village may, after the expiration of the time prescribed for the
work to be performed by the owner, cause the sidewalk to be constructed,
reconstructed or replaced by the village together with an administration fee of
10% of costs thereof, all of which shall be charged to the owner thereof and
shall be payable in full within 30 days after completion of the work; and if
not so paid, a lien shall be established upon the property pursuant to §
92.10.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.08  REPAIR OR MAINTENANCE; NOTICE; PERFORMED BY VILLAGE; LIEN.
   In instances in which sidewalk repairs or maintenance are determined by the
Department of Public Works to be necessary, the Department shall report same to
the Village President or designee thereof. If the Village President or designee
thereof concurs, he or she shall cause notice to the property owner to be made
in the manner prescribed in §
92.02(A), stating the determination of the necessity for repairs or
maintenance, specifying the site or sites requiring repair or maintenance,
methods or procedures for accomplishing same and the time for performance. In
the event a property owner fails, neglects or refuses to cause said sidewalk
repairs to be made or maintenance to be performed, the village shall undertake
the same. The expense so incurred, plus 10% as an administrative fee, shall be
payable in full within 30 days after completion of the work, and if not so
paid, a lien shall be established upon the property pursuant to §
92.10.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.09  CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION, REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR IN CONJUNCTION
WITH STREET PROJECT.
   When the Village Council shall consider the necessity for construction,
reconstruction, widening, resurfacing, installing curb and gutter or otherwise
improving a public street, the necessity of construction, reconstruction,
replacement or repair of abutting or adjacent sidewalks shall simultaneously be
considered. Whenever feasible, sidewalk work shall be performed in conjunction
with the street project as finally approved by the Village Council. A separate
special assessment district established for a street project may, at the
discretion of the Village Council, include all sidewalk work performed in
conjunction therewith.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.10  LIEN; RECOVERY OF VILLAGE EXPENSES.
   The failure, neglect or refusal of a property owner to pay in full when due
the total expenses, together with applicable administrative fee, incurred by
the village by reason of work performed for new sidewalk construction or for
the reconstruction or replacement of existing sidewalk, or for the repair or
maintenance of sidewalk, whether said expenses are incurred in the form of work
performed by village employees or by independent third parties with whom the
village has contracted, shall cause a lien in favor of the village to be
established on the property. If the amount due and owing is not paid by April 1
next following, and is certified as unpaid by the Village Treasurer, the
Village Assessor shall enter the total amount of the unpaid expenses and fees,
together with interest at 12% per annum, upon the next general tax roll of the
village as delinquent charges against the property. Said lien shall remain in
effect until the amount due and owing, and interest thereon, is fully paid; and
said amount, plus interest, may be collected in the manner provided by law for
delinquent and/or unpaid taxes, or at the direction of the Village Council, by
such proceedings as are permitted by law and as may be recommended by the
Village Attorney.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 92.11  ENFORCEMENT; APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Village
President or designee thereof.
   (B)   Any person(s) designated to enforce the provisions of this subchapter
pursuant to this section shall have the authority to issue and serve appearance
tickets for appearance before a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
92.99
USE OF STREETS 
§ 92.25  PROHIBITING OPERATION OF TRACTORS OR MACHINERY WITH LUGS OVER STREETS.
   No person or persons, partnership, corporation or combination of same shall
operate any tractors or other implements or motor vehicles or machinery over
and across the streets of the village which have been paved or covered with
hard surfacing material or macadam or asphalt, if such machines, tractors,
motor vehicles or other implements are equipped with lugs or other fixtures
which in any way would imprint or break through or cut into the pavement,
macadam, asphalt or other surface of said street in said village.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26  PROHIBITING DUMPING ON STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person or persons shall dump refuse, ashes, rubbish or any other
matter in any of the streets within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   No person or persons shall drive,  operate or propel, or draw any
vehicle, implement or other machinery or equipment of any kind which drops dirt
or other material on any street within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 12, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
92.99
MANAGEMENT AND REGULATION OF STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 92.35  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All maintenance and repair of public streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public ways, and the placement and maintenance of aerial or above ground wires,
cable, lines, conduit and utility poles in, on or across the streets or public
rights-of-way of the village, shall be under the supervision and control of the
Village Council.  No person shall excavate, cut or otherwise work within, cause
any damage to, place any article in, or obstruct any street or public right-of-
way in the village, except pursuant to a permit issued as provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.36  PLACEMENT OF WIRES.
   Unless exceptions have been granted by the Village Council, upon
recommendation of the Village Engineer, all new or replacement distribution
lines for electricity, telephone, television, or similar services distributed
by wire or cable shall be placed entirely underground throughout the area. 
Electrical distribution lines shall be defined in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Michigan Public Service Commission.  Such conduits or cables
shall be placed within private easements provided to such service companies by
the proprietor, or within dedicated public ways.  All such facilities placed in
public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground
utilities.  All such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with
standards approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  Private
easements for underground utilities shall be shown on the site plan.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.37  PERMITS, APPLICATIONS, FEES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Except for work performed under a contract with the village, no work
shall take place in a public right-of-way or street without a permit issued by
the Village Manager, or his or her designee.  All work permitted in the public
right-of-way or street is subject to the following conditions: 
      (1)   No zoning permit for construction or alteration of any structure
requiring utility lines shall be issued permits required under this subchapter
for such utility work unless full compliance is adhered to as contained herein.
      (2)   All work shall be performed in such a fashion so as to minimize
inconvenience to pedestrian and vehicular traffic and to protect the public
health and safety.  The Village Manager, or his or her designee, may limit
construction times, may require changes in precautionary measures, and may
otherwise impose reasonable requirements to enhance public health and safety
and to enhance pedestrian and vehicular traffic flow. However, the
responsibility for the public health and safety shall lie solely with the
person(s) performing the work pursuant to any permit.  No dirt or other
material shall be placed on sidewalks or roadways.
      (3)   All facilities, both below ground and above ground, shall be
constructed, installed and located only as permitted by the Village Manager, or
his or her designee.  If at any time the position of the utility lines or other
facilities interfere with any work the village plans to perform or allow to be
performed in, on or over the street or public right-of-way, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the utility lines or other facilities, at that
owner’s sole expense, to remove or relocate the lines or other facilities to a
location satisfactory to the village.
      (4)   Persons performing the work shall obtain and maintain any other
permits or approvals that may be required by other local, state or federal
agencies and/or utilities.
      (5)   When the work is fully completed, the street or public right of way
shall be restored to the condition it was in prior to that work.
      (6)   Anyone doing work in a street or right-of-way pursuant to a permit
shall hold the village (which, for purposes of this requirement, includes its
officers and employees) harmless from, indemnify the village for and defend the
village (with legal counsel reasonably acceptable to the village) against any
pending or threatened claim, cause of action, administrative proceeding, award,
judgment or order, for any injuries, deaths or property damage which may arise
as a result of the work done under the permit.
      (7)   The village, its employees, and assigns shall not be held liable or
responsible for the placement of any fencing, landscaping, or other item within
a public right of way or road owned by or within the jurisdiction of the
village.  No person, firm, agent, or other entity shall place fencing,
landscaping, or any other non-vegetative obstruction or item within a public
right-of-way or road owned by or within the jurisdiction of the village without
first obtaining a permit from the village.  The village may require that any
fence, landscaping, or other item located within a public road right-of-way or
road owned by or within the jurisdiction of the village be removed at any time
(regardless of whether a permit or approval for such item was given by the
village) if the village determines that such item constitutes a traffic hazard,
has not been maintained, or is aesthetically offensive.
   (B)   (1)   Permits authorized by this subchapter shall be obtained by
making application to the Village Manager, or his or her designee.
      (2)   An applicant for a permit for construction, repair, excavation,
obstruction, or use of any street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way
shall furnish to the Village Clerk or the Village Manager, or his or her
designee, a signed application setting forth the location of the activities,
the purpose and extent thereof, the location of the construction, excavation,
obstruction, or repair, the duration of the activities, the name of the person
responsible for performing the work, and the other information as the Village
Manager, or his or her designee, or Village Clerk may request.
      (3)   The Village Manager, or his or her designee, may cause the matter
to be investigated, and if satisfied that the work or other activity is
reasonable and necessary, shall give written approval to the application. 
Reasonable conditions may be placed on the permit, and the permit shall be
issued only upon full compliance with any such conditions.
      (4)   From time to time, the Village Council may establish a fee for the
permit by resolution.
   (C)   (1)   A person, firm, corporation, or any other entity shall not place
or deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited, snow, ice, slush, grass,
leaves, or debris onto, into, or across any roadway or highway.  This
prohibition shall include, but not be limited to, snowplowing and snow blowing.
      (2)   A person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall not remove or
place, or cause to be removed or placed, snow, ice, slush, leaves, or debris
onto, into, or across a roadway or highway or the shoulder of the roadway or
highway in a manner which interferes with traffic or obstructs the safety
vision of the driver of a motor vehicle other than off-road vehicles.  For the
purpose of this subchapter,  “safety vision” is defined as an unobstructed line
of sight enabling a driver to travel upon, enter, or exit a roadway or highway
in a safe manner.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.38  INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   (A)   A permit applicant shall provide proof of general liability insurance
that includes the village (including its officers and employees) as an insured
or additional insured.  Such insurance shall provide coverage in an amount not
less than the following: a minimum of $1,000,000 for public liability and
$1,000,000 for property damage. A duplicate executed copy of the original of
such certificate of insurance showing the insurance to be in place and the
premium fully paid shall be filed with the village.  Such insurance shall
provide that coverage may not be terminated or modified without at least 15
days prior written notice to the village. Upon request of the village, copies
of the policies and all endorsements shall be filed with the village.
   (B)   The village may require the applicant to furnish a bond in an amount
deemed adequate for the proposed activity.  In lieu of or in addition to a
bond, the village may require the applicant to furnish a deposit to cover the
expense to the village if the construction or other activities are not
performed in accordance with the permit, village ordinance, or other applicable
law.  The deposit shall be paid to the Village Clerk and will be used only for
that purpose.  Upon completion of the work, any surplus not used by the village
to correct any failures to comply with the conditions of the permit and this
subchapter shall be refunded to the applicant, without interest.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.39  PROHIBITION AFTER PAVING OR RESURFACING.
   No permit to make any opening or excavation in or under a paved street shall
be granted to any person within a period of two years after the completion of
any paving or resurfacing unless those doing the work provide a seamless
resurfacing of an area determined to be appropriate given the size of the
paving or resurfacing project.  The Village Council may suspend this
prohibition where a street opening is required to protect the public health or
safety.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.40  GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, EXCAVATIONS,
AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Proper bracing for excavations shall be maintained to prevent the
collapse of adjoining lands.
   (B)   (1)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, conduits, other
underground structures, or any aboveground utility or sign in making
excavations.
      (2)   Before making excavation in which the pipes, cables, or conduits
may be disturbed, the person making the excavation shall give reasonable notice
to the person maintaining the pipes, cables, or conduits.
   (C)   To the extent possible, provision shall be made for allowing the
passage of pedestrian and vehicular traffic past the site of the work.
   (D)   After completion of excavation, all trenches and excavations shall be
promptly backfilled and thoroughly settled by wetting and tamping, and all
excess material promptly removed from the site.
   (E)   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be properly
barricaded and railed off, and provided with prescribed nighttime warning
lights so as to provide protection in a manner consistent with general industry
practice or as further enhanced by direction of the Village Manager.  All
traffic control devices shall conform to the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices.
   (F)   Each day as work progresses, and after work is finished, all streets
shall be thoroughly cleaned of excess earth and other debris resulting from the
work, at the expense of the person receiving the permit.
   (G)   No provision of this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the work
as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the
location of improper or unsafe conditions in any conduit or pipe, or for making
emergency repairs, provided that the person conducting the work shall apply to
the Village Manager, or his or her designee, or Village Clerk for an
appropriate permit on the first working day after the emergency work is
commenced.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to disturb or to interfere with any barricade or
railing lawfully placed to protect a mark ending new pavement, construction,
excavation, or opening in a public street, curb, alley, sidewalk, or other
public way.
   (I)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair, or remove any curb,
gutter, or structure for regulating, governing, or facilitating the flow of
water, except in accordance with the line, grade, or specifications established
by the village.
   (J)   Any person receiving a permit for the work who shall fail to comply
fully with all provisions of the permit, or other village ordinances, shall be
subject to the suspension of the permit by the Village Manager or the Village
Council.  In the event of the suspension, the person shall not proceed with the
work for which the permit was issued until after the permit shall be reissued.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.41  REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT.
   Any encroachment, obstruction or excavation in a street or public right-of-
way which was not permitted under this subchapter shall be removed upon notice
by the Village Manager, or his or her designee.  If, due to a lack of knowledge
of who is responsible for the encroachment, obstruction, or excavation, due to
the exigency of the circumstances, or due to a failure of a notified party to
remove it, the village undertakes its removal, the expense of doing so shall be
the responsibility of the persons or parties responsible for the encroachment,
obstruction or excavation.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.42  COMPLETE INSTALLATION.
   Any installation of wires, cables, lines, conduits or similar transmission
materials in the vicinity of the public right-of-way shall be completed such
that no such materials are left lying upon or over the street or public right-
of-way or placed in or upon trees or other vegetation located in the right-of-
way.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.43  SUPPLEMENTAL STREET CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or repair any curb or pavement on
any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, or other public way without having
first secured a permit from the village.
   (B)   The repair or replacement of existing streets, or extension of
streets, or construction of new streets (for example, within a new plat) by a
private party (but not the village) shall conform with all applicable County
Road Commission standards.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.44  STREET VACATION.
   (A)   When the Council considers it advisable to vacate, discontinue, or
abolish a street, alley, or other public way, or part of a street, alley, or
other public way, it shall by resolution declare its intent and appoint a time
not less than four weeks after the date of the resolution, when it shall meet
and hear objections to the resolution.  Notice of the meeting, with a copy of
the resolution, shall be given in the manner prescribed by the Open Meetings
Act, as amended or replaced.  An objection to the proposed action of the
Council may be filed with the Clerk in writing, and if an objection is filed,
the highway, street, lane, alley, or public ground, or part of a highway,
street, lane, alley, or public ground, shall not be vacated or discontinued,
except by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council.
   (B)   Vacated portions of streets and alleys shall be shown on the village
street map and/or applicable plat.  The vacating of a street, alley, or other
public way shall be done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the street
map and/or plat.
   (C)   Every resolution or ordinance discontinuing or vacating any street,
lane, alley, or public ground shall also be recorded in a book of street
records and the record shall be prima facie evidence of all matters therein set
forth.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.45  STREET NAMES.
   All streets shall be known and designated by the names applied thereto,
respectively, on the map of the village, and plats in reference thereto, filed
with the Village Clerk, which map and plats are hereby adopted and made a part
hereof.  The naming of any new street, or the changing of a name of any street,
shall be done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the map and/or plat.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.46  RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall move, or cause to be moved, or aid in moving, any
building upon or across any street, alley, or other public place without first
obtaining a written permit from the Village Manager.
   (B)   The permit shall require that the building be in continuous movement,
without interruption as long as the building is upon the street or alley,
except in cases of emergency.
   (C)   The permit shall allow movement of the building only upon a particular
route approved by the Village Clerk, and during particular times approved by
the Village Manager.
   (D)   The person responsible for moving the building shall make appropriate
arrangements to avoid damage to utilities.
   (E)   A bond shall be furnished to the village in an amount not less than
$5,000 as security for any damage to any public property which may result
directly or indirectly from moving the building.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.47  DAMAGE BY TREE OR BUSH.
   (A)   When in the judgment of the Village Manager the roots of any tree or
bush are causing damage to any sewer, sidewalk, pavement, or other public
property, the same may be declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice shall be given to the property owner as provided in §
92.50.
   (C)   The notice will set a time for hearing at the next regular Village
Council meeting which is at least 30 days from the giving or posting of notice.
   (D)   If, at the hearing before the Village Council, the Council determines
that a public nuisance exists, the owner shall then be given 14 days in which
to remove the tree or bush and to repair, or pay for the repair of, the public
property damaged.
   (E)   If the owner fails to remove the tree or bush within 14 days, then the
owner shall be deemed to have committed a nuisance, and the village may abate
the nuisance.
   (F)   In addition to the fines and penalties as may be assessed against the
property owner for committing a nuisance, the village may recover the cost of
abating the nuisance, and repairing damage caused by the nuisance, in a civil
action against the property owner, or by any other means permitted by law.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.48  AS-BUILTS.
   Upon the completion of any work in any street or right-of-way, the person(s)
performing such work shall file with the village detailed, as-built drawings
showing what was installed in what location, what materials were used in
restoration and such other information as may be required by the Village
Manager.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.49  VIOLATIONS; CEASE WORK.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership, or other legal
entity which violates or refuses to comply with any provision of this
subchapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be
subject to fines, costs, and other relief as provided for in §
92.99.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties or remedies available, the village
is authorized and empowered to direct the property owner to remove or otherwise
abate the nuisance.  If such notice is given, it shall be in writing, addressed
to the property owner as it appears on the latest ad valorem property tax
assessment roll, or current owner if such is different and known to the village
and be mailed via first class or posted at the property in violation, and shall
inform the property owner of the following:
      (1)   The nature of the violation/nuisance; and
      (2)   The time in which the violation/nuisance must be abated.
   (C)   Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any property owner to comply with
the provisions of this subchapter, the village or its authorized contractor, or
other designee, is authorized and empowered to enter the property owner's
property to abate the nuisance, or to provide and to make payment for the
abatement of the nuisance maintained.
   (D)   When the village abates a nuisance as provided herein, the cost of any
abatement, including legal expenses and the authorized administrative fee, will
be billed to the property owner.  The cost and fee will be a debt of the
property owner to the village.
   (E)   The failure to receive the notice as provided for in division (B) of
this section is not a defense to any action brought by a member of the public
for injury or by the village to collect the costs of abatement or impose
penalties or other fees authorized by this subchapter.
   (F)   The Village Manager may suspend or revoke any permit and order any
permitted work to cease by serving notice of such action and the reason
therefore.  The Village Manager may also order the permittee to remove or
correct work that threatens health, welfare or safety.  If a permittee fails to
remove or correct the work, the village may remove or correct the same and the
permittee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses the village incurs to
do so.  This remedy shall be in addition to all remedies available to the
village under this subchapter, at law or in equity.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.50  NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice regarding any matters as to which notice is required or
permitted to be provided under the terms of this code, including notice
regarding any act required by this code, the expense of which, if performed by
the village, may be collected from the property owner, shall be served as
follows, in addition to any other means of service of notice required by law:
      (1)   By delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the
person's residence, office, or place of business with some person of suitable
age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by registered or certified mail to the person
at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the identity of a property owner is not known, or if his or her
whereabouts cannot be ascertained after diligent search and inquiry, by posting
the notice in some conspicuous place on the premises concerned not fewer than
five days prior to the date set therein for compliance.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal, or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by the village unless permission is
given to remove it.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.11 or
92.26 in addition to the other provisions of this chapter, is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
any of the sections listed in division (B) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of said sections continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
      (4)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
the provisions of §
92.25 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more
than $100, and the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county jail for
a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
92.35 through
92.50 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 or more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to an
increased civil fine as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §§
92.35 through
92.50:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of §§
92.35 through
92.50 continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
      (4)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with §§
92.35 through
92.50 .
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 12, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995; Ord. 157, passed 1-12-2005; Ord. 206, passed 11-11-2015)
CHAPTER 93:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park and Recreation Board
   
93.01   Creation of Board
   
93.02   Organization
   
93.03   Funding
   
93.04   Receipts, donations, disposition
   
93.05   Parks and Recreation Master Plan
Use of Public Parks
   
93.20   Public sale of alcohol in village parks at certain times authorized;
permit required; standards
   
93.21   Park closing hours
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 93.01  CREATION OF BOARD.
   There is hereby created a Park and Recreation Board consisting of seven
members appointed by the Village President with the consent of the Village
Council. The term of each appointed member shall be for three years or until
his or her successor takes office, except that the respective terms of two of
the members first appointed shall be for one and two of the members for two
years. One of the Board members must be a member of the Village Council and of
the Council’s Park Committee and such member’s term shall not exceed such
member’s term of office as a member of the Village Council. All members shall
serve at the pleasure of the President and Council and may be removed by the
President with consent of the Council. The President may appoint one member of
the Board who is not a village resident but a resident of Three Oaks Township.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010; Ord. 205, passed 7-8-2015; Ord. 207, passed 11-
11-2015)
§ 93.02  ORGANIZATION.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall elect one of its members Chairperson and
one as Secretary. An associate member may not be elected as either Chairperson
or Secretary. The Board shall keep a correct and accurate record of its
proceedings and shall meet at such times as it may determine.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 93.03  FUNDING.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall prepare annual operating budgets and
shall review its budgets with the Village Council. The budget shall be
submitted to the Village Council by the Village Council’s Park and Recreation
Board representative. All budgets shall be subject to review and revision by
the Village Council upon consultation with the Park and Recreation Board.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 93.04  RECEIPTS, DONATIONS, DISPOSITION.
   All receipts on account of the village parks, whether arising from rentals,
donations, sale of any part thereof or of any lands so willed and devised by
any person to said village, shall be exclusively expended and applied under the
direction and control of the Village Council.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
§ 93.05  PARKS AND RECREATION MASTER PLAN.
   The Village Five Year Parks and Recreation Master Plan shall be maintained
and kept up to date in compliance with State Department of Natural Resources
and Environment guidelines. The Parks and Recreation Board shall be responsible
for preparing any updates to the Plan under the direction and approval of the
Village Council.
(Ord. 189, passed 10-13-2010)
USE OF PUBLIC PARKS
§ 93.20  PUBLIC SALE OF ALCOHOL IN VILLAGE PARKS AT CERTAIN TIMES AUTHORIZED;
PERMIT REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sale authorized. The Village Council has deemed it advisable to allow
and permit limited public sale at retail and consumption of alcoholic beverages
in certain public parks within the village, namely Watkins Park, Dewey Cannon
Park and Carver Park, during community-wide events.
   (B)   Permit for sale. Permits for sale of alcoholic beverage in Watkins
Park, Dewey Cannon Park and Carver Park shall be obtained by application to the
Village Council in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application with the Village Clerk stating:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the person, persons,
corporation, association or entity sponsoring the activity or event for which
the permit is desired;
         (c)   The day or days and hours for which the permit is desired;
         (d)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired; and
         (e)   Any other information reasonably necessary to a determination as
to whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
      (2)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall submit with
the application:
         (a)   Proof satisfactory to the Village Council of public liability
insurance in a minimum amount of $250,000, per occurrence which shall name the
village as an additional insured under the policy;
         (b)   Proof satisfactory to the Village Council of compliance with the
State Liquor Control Act, being Public Act 8 of 1933 (Extra Session), being
M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1 et seq.  as amended, and all rules and/or regulations
promulgated by the State Liquor Control Commission and obtaining a permit from
the State Liquor Control Commission for the requested activity; and
         (c)   Evidence of the applicant’s arrangements for security for the
event and clean up of the park or portion thereof use after the event.
   (C)   Standards for issuance of permit. Standards for issuance of a permit
for sale of alcoholic beverages in Watkins Park, Dewey Cannon Park and Carver
Park shall include the following findings by the Village Council:
[material missing]
(Ord. 132, passed 5-12-1999; Ord. 133, passed 6-9-1999; Ord. 186, passed 4-14-
2010)
§ 93.21  PARK CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to enter or remain on
the premises in the public parks of the village after 10:00 p.m. on any day.
   (B)   The closing hours provided in division (A) above shall apply to Dewey
Cannon Park and also the village park located at the corner of Ash Street and
South Elm Street in the village.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-5-1974)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
93.21 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (1)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (2)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §
93.21:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of §
93.21 continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to
penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
(Ord. 60, passed 9-5-1974; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 94:  TREES
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Purpose; intent
   
94.03   Applicability; jurisdiction
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Responsibility of Village Manager
   
94.06   Tree Advocacy Group
   
94.07   Enforcement authority
   
94.08   Authority to accept monies
   
94.09   Permits
   
94.10   Standards and specifications manual
   
94.11   Tree protection; preservation
   
94.12   Obstruction
   
94.13   Nuisance and condemnation of trees on public and private property
   
94.14   Appeals
   
94.15   Interference
   
94.16   Emergencies
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Municipal Tree and Shrub Chapter for the
village.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.02  PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection, management,
removal and replacement of trees on public property and public rights-of-way.
Proper planning and care will help ensure that these assets will continue to
thrive and benefit the citizens of the village in the future.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.03  APPLICABILITY; JURISDICTION.
   The Village Manager, or designee, shall have exclusive jurisdiction,
authority, control, supervision and direction over all trees, plants, shrubs
and grassy areas planted or growing in or upon the public rights-of-way and
public places of the village and the planting, removal, care, maintenance and
protection thereof, and he or she may promulgate and adopt rules and
regulations to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANOPY. The part of the crown composed of leaves and small twigs.
   CROWN. The upper part of a tree, which includes the branches and leaves.
   DISEASED TREE.  Any tree with a combination of structural defect and/or a
health condition which makes it subject to a high probability of failure.
   LAWN EXTENSION.  That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk
or other paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street
or highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
   LINE CLEARANCE.  The regulated trimming and the removal of trees near, under
and along utility lines to maintain reliable distribution of electricity.
   MUNICIPAL FORESTER OR DESIGNEE.  Someone who possesses general knowledge of
specific trees and a broader knowledge base on the overall roles trees play in
the community setting.
   PARK. All public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the
village, or to which the public has free access.
   PARK TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the village, or to which
the public has free access as a park.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public highway, public park or any property
owned or held by the Village within its boundaries.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW).  Land owned and maintained by the village. Land
dedicated for streets, sidewalks, utilities, and similar public uses such as
parks, lawn extensions and the like.
   PUBLIC TREE.  Any tree located on property owned or controlled by the
village.
   SHRUB. A low, small plant, the branches of which grow directly from the
earth without any supporting trunk, or stem. Any tree with a potential growth
of less than 15 feet shall be considered a SHRUB.
   STREET TREE.  Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the village.
   TREE. A woody perennial plant, usually having one dominant vertical trunk
and capable of achieving a height greater than 15 feet.
   TREE ADVOCACY GROUP.  A group of people designated by ordinance to advise a
governing body on matters related to an urban and community forestry program.
   UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Public right-of-way land where utilities such as gas,
electric, water, and the like are maintained.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.05  RESPONSIBILITY OF VILLAGE MANAGER.
   The Village Manager, or designee, as Municipal Forester, shall have
authority over any and all trees on public rights-of-way or any public property
in the village.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.06  TREE ADVOCACY GROUP.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. The Village Council has the authority to
create a Tree Advocacy Group for the village on an as needed basis. The Tree
Advocacy Group shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of the
village, who shall be appointed by the Village President with the approval of
the Village Council. The members shall come from different interest groups
including homeowners, tree professionals, Street Department and municipal
government.
   (B)   Terms of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Village President shall be set by Village Council. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Advocacy Group shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Advocacy Group to advise
and assist in the study, investigation, counsel, development and administration
of a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
municipal areas. Such plan could be presented annually to the Village Council
for possible acceptance and approval to constitute the official comprehensive
community tree plan if so desired by the Village Manager, or designee.
      (2)   The Tree Advocacy Group shall promote and supervise the
establishment of a tree inventory for street and park trees. The inventory
shall be updated with the results of ground inspections every three years.
      (3)   The Tree Advocacy Group, when requested by the Village Council,
shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any
special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
      (4)   If called on to do so, additional duties of the Tree Advocacy Group
may include coordinating annual Arbor Day celebrations; coordinating tree
plantings, volunteer efforts to install or maintain plantings or other
beautification projects on public land with citizens groups; provide a means to
involve the public in community forestry management plan; and promote new and
existing tree programs by motivating both local government and the public to
support community forestry management.
   (E)   Operation. The Tree Advocacy Group shall choose its own officers, and
keep a record of its proceedings.
   (F)   Meetings. The Tree Advocacy Group shall meet as needed and, in
addition, meetings can be called by the Chairperson or by the Village
President.
   (G)   Quorum. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business and any actions of the Tree Advocacy Group may be taken
by a majority of the members present at the meeting at which the action is
taken.
   (H)   Administrative support staff. Staff support to the Tree Advocacy Group
shall be appointed by the Village Manager, or designee.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.07  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Department of Public Works, under the direction of the Village Manager,
or designee, shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
The Director of Public Works, or designee, shall have the authority to perform
site inspections and order the correction of unsafe trees on public and private
property that are a potential danger to the health and safety of public or
municipal property.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.08  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT MONIES.
   The Village Clerk and Village Treasurer, or either of them, are hereby
authorized to accept, on behalf of the village, all gifts of money for the
purpose of planting and maintaining trees.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.09  PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall plant, spray, prune, remove, cut above or below ground
or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or municipal-owned property without
first filing an application and procuring a permit from the Village Manager, or
designee, or otherwise specified municipal authority. The person receiving the
permit shall abide by the arboricultural specifications and standards of
practice adopted by the Village Manager or designee. No permit, however, shall
be required for any municipal employee doing such work in the pursuit of their
public service endeavors. No permit shall be required to cultivate or water
public trees, shrubs or plants.
   (B)   The Village Manager or designee shall have the authority to require
posting of a bond adequate to fully repay the village for any and all costs
attendant to the completion of the work under the permit. In addition, the
contractor is required to show adequate insurance from potential damages during
the execution of the work, name the village as an additional insurance rider,
and sign a hold harmless clause.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10  STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL.
   The Tree Standards and Specifications Manual that accompanies Ordinance No.
202 is available for review at the village office, contains regulations and
standards for planting, maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other
plants on municipally-owned property.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.11  TREE PROTECTION; PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Prohibiting the mutilation of public trees. It shall be a violation of
the provisions of this chapter for any person to abuse, destroy or mutilate any
tree, plant or shrub in a public parking strip or any other public place, or to
attach or place any rope, wire (other than one used to support a young or
broken tree), sign, poster, handbill or other things to or on any tree growing
in a public place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to
be placed or attached to any such tree, or allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid
substance which is harmful to such tree to come in contact with their roots,
trunks or leaves.
   (B)   Requiring protection of trees during construction, new developments,
sidewalk repair, utility work below ground. Trees of desirable species and good
health shall be protected as much as possible from damage during construction,
sidewalk repair, utilities work below ground, and other similar activities. The
zone of protection shall include the ground beneath the canopy and the drip-
line of the tree. In new subdivisions or when the new development of commercial
property occurs, the Village Manager, or designee, shall review landscaping
plans and may require street trees to be planted in any of the streets, parking
lots, parks and other public places abutting lands henceforth developed and/or
subdivided.
   (C)   Requiring protection of trees during utility work above ground.
Utility companies are responsible for conducting a courtesy call to the Village
Manager, or designee, to review all upcoming utility line clearance work to be
performed within the following four to six weeks. All utility line clearance
work will be performed based upon growth rates specific to individual tree
species and in accordance to the International Society of Arboriculture’s
Proper Pruning Techniques publication, found in Appendix C of the Standards and
Specifications Manual accompanying Ord. 202.
   (D)   Establishing standards to replace trees removed and protect endangered
trees. Whenever any vegetation is removed by any person, including the village,
for the construction of any public improvement, the Director of Public Works,
whenever practicable, shall require the replanting of at least 50% of the
removed diameter base with a similar tree or shrub to take the place of those
removed.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12  OBSTRUCTION.
   If private property, a lawn extension or municipal right-of-way is not
maintained as required by this chapter, the Village Manager, or designee, may
have the work done to bring the property lawn extension or municipal right-of-
way into compliance. In the case of an immediate hazard to public safety, no
prior notice shall be necessary. The actual costs of the work needed to bring
the property, lawn extension or municipal right-of-way into compliance, plus an
administration fee of $50, may be assessed to the owner in addition to any
other penalties provided by law.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13  NUISANCE AND CONDEMNATION OF TREES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. All street trees planted in violation of, or not maintained
in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the Standards and
Specifications Manual, or that are dead or dangerous are declared to constitute
a public nuisance. The Village Manager, or designee, shall cause written notice
to be served on the property owner requiring such nuisances to be corrected
within 30 days or the cost of correction will be assessed against the property
owner.
   (B)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property. Upon the discovery
of any destructive or communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers
the growth or health of trees, or threatens to spread disease or insect
infestations, the Village Manager, or designee, shall at once cause written
notice to be served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or
infested tree is situated, and the notice shall require such property owner to
eradicate, remove or otherwise control such condition within reasonable time to
be specified in such notice.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14  APPEALS.
   Any person deciding to appeal a decision made by the Village Manager, or
designee, shall be granted a meeting with the person or department responsible
for trees to discuss the issue. The person or department responsible for trees
must be notified of the desire to meet within 14 days from when the decision
was publicized. If a discussion satisfying both parties cannot be met, a
written appeal may be submitted to the Village Council within 14 days
thereafter. The decision of the Village Council shall be final.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.15  INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall prevent, delay or interfere with the Village Manager, or
designee, in the execution or enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16  EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergencies involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms,
floods, freezes or other natural disasters, the requirements of this chapter
may be waived by the Village President or Emergency Manager. This section shall
not be used to circumvent the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
   (E)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 202, passed 7-10-2013)
CHAPTER 95:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
95.01   Open burning prohibited
   
95.02   Smoke detectors required in dwelling units
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Outdoor burning prohibited. No person, firm or corporation shall burn
any wood, brush, leaves, trash, papers, rubbish or garbage out of doors
anywhere in the Village of Three Oaks. This section shall not prohibit:
      (1)   Charcoal cookers, braziers, hibachis, grills, chimneas, patio
warmers, outdoor fireplaces or gas-fired stoves and similar semi-enclosed
devices on the premises of a single-family detached residential dwelling;
provided that:
         (a)   Such device is located at least 25 feet from the nearest
structure which is not on the same property.
         (b)   The fires within such devices are gas lit or consist of only
charcoal or clean wood, defined as natural, dried and seasoned wood that has
not been painted, varnished or coated with a similar material; has not been
pressure treated with preservatives and does not contain resins or glues as in
plywood or other composite wood product with the exception of a small amount of
paper product used for the initial igniting of the fire.
         (c)   For purposes of this section a "semi-enclosed device" means a
freestanding device specifically designed and manufactured for the burning of
wood or charcoal with a lid, door or cover that may be securely closed.
         (d)   Provided that the fire does not exceed nine square feet in area
with flames no higher than three feet measured from the surface of the ground
or bottom of the fire box.
      (2)   Charcoal cookers, braziers, hibachis, grills and similar devices on
the ground level of any apartment building, townhouse, condominium, or similar
occupancy provided that:
         (a)   Such device is used solely for the preparation of food.  
         (b)   Such device is located not less than eight feet from every part
of the building, including any portion of any balcony, overhang, or protrusion.
         (c)   The fires within such devices are gas lit or consist of
charcoal.
(Ord. 112, passed 11-11-1992; Ord. 214, passed 12-12-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED IN DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED RATING ORGANIZATION.  Any of the following: Underwriters Testing
Laboratories Factory Mutual Research Corp., National Bureau of Standards, or
JFPA Standard No.  74, 1975.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The Building Inspector of the village, or the
Inspector’s designee.
      DWELLING UNIT.  A building or portion of a building arranged for the use
of one or more individuals living alone or together as a single housekeeping
unit with living, sanitary and sleeping facilities.
      FIRE CHIEF.  The Fire Chief of the village, or the Chief’s designee.
      VILLAGE.  The Village of Three Oaks.
      SMOKE DETECTOR.  An instrument approved by an approved rating
organization for the detection of ionized gases or products of combustion
produced by burning or smoldering materials.
   (B)   System required; minimum requirements for detectors.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall have an electric or battery operated smoke
detector device for each sleeping area. Any such detector shall comply with all
applicable state or federal requirements.
      (2)   Smoke detectors shall be capable of being maintained by the person
or persons entitled to occupy the dwelling unit. Smoke detectors shall consist
of an assembly incorporating the detector, control equipment and the alarm
sounding device in one unit. They shall have a power supply consisting of a
monitored battery or a cord connection to an electrical receptacle which is
fitted with a plug restrainer device. The plug in receptacle shall not be
controlled by any switch other than that of the main power supply. Two or more
single station smoke detector assemblies may be interconnected so that
actuation of one causes all audible alarms to operate.
      (3)   Upon activation, the smoke detector shall provide an audible alarm
which is to be so distributed and have such character so that it can be heard
in all rooms of the dwelling unit with its doors closed. The audible signals
shall be distinctive from other audible signaling devices which may be used for
other purposes in the dwelling unit. The smoke detector shall be designed for
and capable of either self-restoration or manual restoration to normal
conditions for operation. No provisions shall be made for deactivation of the
audible alarm other than by reactivation of the system.
   (C)   Time of compliance.
      (1)   The owner of each dwelling unit shall cause the same to be brought
into compliance with the terms and provisions of this section, however, after
the effective date of this section no dwelling unit shall be sold or occupancy
changed unless and until the dwelling unit has been brought into compliance
with the terms and provisions of this section.
      (2)   No structural change or repair of a value in excess of $500 shall
be made to a dwelling unit unless and until the dwelling unit is brought into
compliance with the terms and provisions of this section.
      (3)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a dwelling unit
unless and until the applicant shall have first complied with all the terms and
conditions of this section.
   (D)   Certification by owner. Prior to the sale of any dwelling unit located
in the village, the owner and seller shall certify in writing to the Building
Inspector full and complete compliance of the property with the terms and
provisions of this section. The making and submission of a wilfully false
certification by the owner and seller of a dwelling unit shall be a violation
of the terms and provisions of this section.
   (E)   Mailings. Notices describing the requirements of this section shall
from time to time be included in village water bills.
(Ord. 98, passed 3-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
   (E)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 98, passed 3-8-1989; Ord. 112, passed 11-11-1992; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
111.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   HAWKERS, VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
113.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
114.   SECOND HAND DEALERS, JUNK SHOPS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
115.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose and findings
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Classification of businesses
Licensing Provisions
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Issuance of license
   
110.17   Fees
   
110.18   Inspections
   
110.19   Expiration of license
   
110.20   Suspension of license
   
110.21   Revocation of license
   
110.22   Hearings regarding license denial, suspension, revocation, appeal or
transfer of license
Business Operation Regulations
   
110.35   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
110.36   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
110.37   Additional regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit
films, videos or live entertainment in viewing rooms
   
110.38   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
110.39   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
110.40   Prohibited conduct
   
110.41   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business
   
110.42   Advertising and lighting regulations
   
110.43   Hours of operation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens of the village and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the village. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the village, and on findings, interpretations and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41(1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); N.Y. State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); and Sensations. Inc., v. City of Grand Rapids,
526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., v. Metropolitan Gov’t
of Nashville and Davidson County, 466 F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of
Cincinnati, L.L.C. v. Union Township Bd. Of Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir.
2005) (en banc); Fantasy Ranch, Inc., v. City of Arlington, 459 F.3d 546(5th
Cir. 2006); City of Chicago v. Pooh Bah Enterprises, Inc., 865 N.E.2d 133 (111.
2006); Andy’s Restaurant & Lounge, Inc., v. City of Gary, 466 F.3d 550 (7th
Cir. 2006); 181 South, Inc., v. Fischer, 454 F.3d 228(3rd Cir. 2006); Bronco’s
Entertainment, Ltd. v. Charter Twp. of Van Buren, 421 F.3d 440 (6th Cir. 2005);
Charter Twp. of Van Buren v. Garter Belt, Inc., 258 Mich. App. 594 (2003);
Jott, Inc., v. Clinton Twp., 224 Mich. App. 513 (1997); Michigan ex rel. Wayne
County Prosecutor v. Dizzy Duck, 449 Mich. 353(1995); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v.
City of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); ILQ Investments, Inc., v. City
of Rochester, 25 F.3d 1413 (8th Cir. 1994); Little Mack Entm’t II, Inc., v.
Twp. of Marengo, 2008 WL 2783252 (W.D. Mich. July 17, 2008); Kentucky
Restaurant Concepts, Inc., v. City of Louisville, 209 F. Supp. 2d 672 (W.D. Ky.
2002); Restaurant Ventures V. Lexington-Fayette Urban County Gov’t, 60 S.W.3d
572 (Ky. Ct. App. 2001); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan
Government of Nashville and Davidson County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001);
Ctr.for Fair Public Policy v. Maricopa County, 336 F.3d 1153 (9th Cir. 2003);
Bigg Wolf Discount Video Sales, Inc., v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp. 2d 385
(D. Md. 2003); DLS, Inc., v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir. 1997);
Brandywine, Inc., v. City of Richmond, 359 F.3d 830 (6th Cir. 2004); Currence
v. City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan. 24, 2002); Broadway
Books v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Term. 1986); Bright Lights, Inc., v.
City of Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky. 1993); Bamon Corp. v. City of
Dayton, 923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991); Triplett Grille, Inc., v. City of Akron,
40 F.3d 129 (6th Cir. 1994); O’Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d
1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F. Supp. 2d
710 (N.D. Ohio 1998); Lady J. Lingerie, Inc., v. City of Jacksonville, 176 F.3d
1358 (11th Cir. 1999); In re Tennessee Public Indecency Statute, 172 F.3d 873
(6th Cir. Jan. 13 1999)(table); World Wide Video of Washington, Inc., v. City
of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); Ben’s Bar, Inc., v. Village of
Somerset, 316 F.3d 702(7th Cir. 2003); Daytona Grand, Inc., v. City of Daytona
Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007); Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th
Cir. 2007); H&A Land Corp. v. City of Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007);
Illinois One News, Inc., v. City of Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007);
G.M. Enterprises, Inc., v. Town of St. Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003);
Richland Bookmart, Inc., v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Spokane
Arcade, Inc., v. City of Spokane, 75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); Gammoh v. City
of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion’s
Den, Inc., Case No. 04-CH-26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (III. Fourth
Judicial Circuit, Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc.,
v. City of Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-l 66-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of
Law (N.D. Tex. May 26, 2005); and based upon reports concerning secondary
effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses, including, but
not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden
Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979,
1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977;
Whittier, California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota -
1994; Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas
- 1997; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale, Texas -2005; Greensboro, North
Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; McCleaiy Report - 2006; New York, New
York Times Square - 1994; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008; Warren, Michigan -
2005; and the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group On The Regulation
Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the
village finds as follows:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter
and sexual assault and exploitation;
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive
land uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area; and
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the village has a substantial governmental interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial governmental interest in preventing secondary
effects, which is the village’s rationale for this chapter, exists independent
of any comparative analysis between sexually oriented businesses and non-
sexually oriented businesses. Additionally, the village’s interest in
regulating sexually oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary
effects of either current or future sexually oriented businesses that may
locate in the village. The village finds that the cases and documentation set
forth above and relied on by the village are reasonably believed to be relevant
to said secondary effects.
   (C)   The village hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings
and legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disc players or other image-producing
devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at
any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  A commercial
establishment having 30% or more of all usable interior, retail, wholesale or
warehouse space devoted to the distribution, display or storage of books,
magazines and other periodicals and/or photographs, drawings, slides, films,
videotapes, recording tapes and/or novelty items which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined
herein).
   ADULT CABARET.  An establishment which regularly features persons who appear
semi-nude.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER or ADULT LIVE STAGE PERFORMING THEATER. An
enclosed building used for presenting material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined herein) for observation
by patrons therein. Such establishment is customarily not open to the public
generally, but only to one or more classes of the public, excluding any minor
by reason of age.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   MASSAGE PARLOR.  Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of or in connection with “specified sexual activities,” or where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas.” The definition of sexually
oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the
supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays “specified anatomical areas” and is provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY.  The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state. NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY does not
include the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
      (2)   Material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362; or
      (3)   Sexually explicit visual material as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION.  The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a bikini,
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part. SEMI-NUDITY or a STATE OF SEMI-
NUDE CONDITION does not include the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
      (2)   Material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362; and/or
      (3)   Sexually explicit visual material as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, § 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater or adult live stage performing theater, escort agency, nude model
studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Portions of the human body defined as follows:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.  Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault, molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or
countries;
      (2)   Offenses for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanors
or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  The explicit display of one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; or
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral copulation or
sodomy.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Any of
the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.03  CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters or adult live stage performing theaters;
   (F)   Escort agencies;
   (G)   Massage parlor;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the village pursuant to this chapter;
and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
village.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. An application shall be considered complete when it contains, for each
person required to sign the application, the information and/or items required
in division (E) below, accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 30% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all general partners and whether the partnership is general or
limited; and
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and stockholders with at least 30% ownership interest in the
corporation, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the address of
the registered office for service of process;
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state the
sexually oriented business’s fictitious name;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specific criminal
activity as defined in this chapter, and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from another
municipality or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or an
officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is licensed
under this chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for
which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another municipality
or county and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed
businesses;
      (6)   The category of sexually oriented business that the applicant
intends to engage in at the licensed premises;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address and telephone number(s), if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s business address or other mailing address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
         (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number and/or his or her state
or federally issued tax identification number;
         (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
         (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
30 days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures of any land use identified in §
110.35 of this chapter that is within 200 feet of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is legally in existence at the time an application is submitted; and
         (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, videos
cassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall also comply with the application requirements set forth in §
110.37.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
village the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “stage” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver’s license or a copy
of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document issued
by a governmental agency;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present business telephone number, if any;
      (5)   Present business address or other mailing address;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. The Police Department shall provide fingerprinting service upon
request for a nominal fee during business hours;
      (8)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other municipality, county or state has ever had a license,
permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or had any
professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In
the event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, state the name, the
name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction and describe in full the reason for
the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation
or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (9)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee license, the village shall immediately issue a temporary
license to the applicant if the applicant seeks to work in a licensed sexually
oriented business and the completed application, on its face, indicates that
the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually oriented business employee
license. The application shall then be immediately referred to the appropriate
village departments for an investigation to be made on such information as is
contained in the application. The application process shall be completed within
30 days from the date the completed application is filed, and the village shall
issue a license, unless:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information required under the
terms of this chapter for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal activity”
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the village within two years of the date of the current application.
If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be
subject to appeal as set forth in §
110.22.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the
village that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence
of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
110.17.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
license application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant. The village shall approve the issuance of a license to
an applicant unless:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information required under the
terms of this chapter for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate a
sexually oriented business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months;
      (5)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
been disapproved by the Health Department, Fire Department or the Building
Official as being out of compliance with applicable health, fire or building
laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; or
      (8)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with locational requirements of this chapter or the
locational requirements of any other part of the village’s ordinances.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the kind of license,
the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted and the expiration
date. Sexually oriented business licenses shall further state the address of
the sexually oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
110.03. Sexually oriented business licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may
be easily read at any time. Sexually oriented business employee licenses shall
be kept on the licensee’s person or on the premises of the sexually oriented
business where the licensee is working.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department and the Building Official shall
complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 25 days of receipt of the application by the village.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.17  FEES.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
$250 for the initial fee for a sexually oriented business license and fifty
dollars ($125) for annual renewal; $150 for the initial sexually oriented
business employee license and $75 for annual renewal.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.18  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning Department or other
village departments or agents to inspect, from time to time on an occasional
basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where patrons
are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific
regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented
business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section shall be
narrowly construed by the village to authorize reasonable inspections of the
licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or
excessive pattern of inspections.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits a misdemeanor if he or she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
110.15. Application for renewal shall be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not
be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.20  SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The village shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that the licensee has:
   (A)   Knowingly violated any section of this chapter; or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.21  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
110.20 occurs and the license has been previously suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The village shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false information in the material submitted during
the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, township,
county or state for any taxes or fees in relation to a sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   When the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the village finds that the basis for the revocation
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly
reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.22  HEARINGS REGARDING LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, APPEAL OR
TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the village issues a written notice of intent to deny, suspend or
revoke a license, the village shall immediately send such notice, which shall
include the specific grounds under this chapter for such action, to the
applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or certified mail. The
notice shall be directed to the most current business address or other mailing
address on file with the village for the respondent. The notice shall also set
forth the following: The respondent shall have ten days after the delivery of
the written notice to submit, at the office of the village, a written request
for a hearing. If the respondent does not request a hearing within the ten
days, the village’s written notice shall become a final denial, suspension or
revocation, as the case may be, on the thirtieth day after it is issued, and
shall be subject to the provisions of division (B) below.
      (1)   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within
said ten days, then the village shall, within ten days after the submission of
the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date, time and
place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than ten days nor
more than 20 days after the date that the hearing notice is issued. The village
shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
      (2)   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to
present all of respondent’s arguments and to be represented by counsel, present
evidence and witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross-examine any of the
village’s witnesses. The village shall also be represented by counsel, and
shall bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending or
revoking the license. The hearing shall take no longer than two days, unless
extended at the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due
process and proper administration of justice. The Hearing Officer shall issue a
final written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to
this chapter, to the respondent within five days after the hearing.
      (3)   If the decision is to deny, suspend or revoke the license, the
decision shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective
until the thirtieth day after it is rendered. If the Hearing Officer’s decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension or revocation of the
license, the Hearing Officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the village to immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend
or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by certified mail
of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the village shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (B)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
village shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the action,
shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall facilitate
prompt judicial review of the decision. The following shall apply to any
sexually oriented business that is, in all respects, lawfully operating as a
sexually oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is,
in all respects, lawfully employed as a sexually oriented business employee, on
the date on which the completed business or employee application, as
applicable, is filed with the Village Clerk: Upon the filing of any court
action to appeal, challenge, restrain or otherwise enjoin the village’s
enforcement of the denial, suspension or revocation, the village shall
immediately issue the applicant or licensee (respondent) a provisional license.
The provisional license shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the
sexually oriented business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented
business employee and will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment on the
respondent’s appeal or other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the
village’s enforcement.
   (C)   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall
a licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
BUSINESS OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 110.35  LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business may only be located on a property located
within the C-1 Commercial District pursuant to the village zoning ordinance,
Ordinance Number 152, as amended, adopted March 12, 2003. It shall be unlawful
for any person to operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business
within 200 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges and
universities; SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      (3)   A public library or other public building;
      (4)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the village
zoning ordinance and zoning map;
      (5)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas or other similar
public land within the village which is under the control, operation, or
management of the village park and recreation authorities;
      (6)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in the village zoning ordinance;
      (7)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment;
      (8)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the state; or
      (9)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to this chapter as a
sexually oriented business.
   (B)   For the purpose of division (A) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used to conduct a sexually
oriented business, to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed
in division (A) above. The presence of a use listed in division (A) above that
is located outside the geographic boundaries of the village shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
§ 110.36  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttal presumption that
the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented license, he or she rents or sub-rents a sleeping
room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or
she rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT
FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The village may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared;
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant;
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the village;
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises;
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station;
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above;
      (7)   No viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space may be
occupied by more than one person at any time;
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level;
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises;
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths;
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms;
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist;
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting; and
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above
commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
appear semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity, or
to knowingly allow another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.40  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or depict
specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly or intentionally,
in a sexually oriented business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least six feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer in a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to sell, use or consume
alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41  PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly allow a
person under the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42  ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and advertise the presentation of any activity
prohibited by an applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   A person shall not display or otherwise exhibit the materials and/or
performances available at a sexually oriented business in any advertising which
is affixed to or otherwise visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall
not extend to advertising of the existence or location of such sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   A person shall not allow any portion of the interior premises of a
sexually oriented business to be visible from outside the premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premise.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of the village,
commonly known as the sexually oriented business ordinance, as it may be
amended from time to time, or any subsequently enacted village ordinances or
regulations.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., on any day.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or any other legal entity who violates
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
fined not more than $500 and/or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist or occur, and each separate
occurrence, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 185, passed 11-11-2009)
CHAPTER 111:  PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   License prohibited for certain persons
   
111.03   Application for license; fee
   
111.04   Inspection of premises by Police Chief; approval or disapproval by
Village Council
   
111.05   License to be displayed
   
111.06   Expiration and renewal of license; revocation
   
111.07   Transfer of license
   
111.08   Alcoholic beverages, controlled substances and gambling prohibited
   
111.09   Hours of operation; prohibited conduct
   
111.10   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No public billiard or pool room, dance hall, pinball arcade, video game
arcade or bowling alley shall be established, maintained or conducted in any
place within the village without first obtaining a permit from the Village
Council.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  LICENSE PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PERSONS.
   No person shall be granted a permit under the provisions of this chapter who
is under the age of 18 years and who has not resided within the state for a
period of at least one year prior to the application for such permit; nor shall
any permit be granted to any person who has been convicted of any crime
involving moral turpitude.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring or intending to operate such an
establishment for profit in the village shall file a written application for a
license with the Village Clerk. The applicant shall state the location of the
proposed establishment, the name of the owners of such establishment or any
other persons having a proprietary interest therein, and name, age and place of
residence of any and all persons who are or will be actively engaged in the
management thereof. Such application shall be signed by the prospective
licensee and there shall also be paid and remitted with such application the
sum of $50 which sum shall be the annual license fee for all licenses required
hereunder.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  INSPECTION OF PREMISES BY POLICE CHIEF; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL BY
VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of such application and remittance, the Village Clerk shall
forthwith refer the application to the Police Chief who shall make a personal
inspection of the premises and determine whether or not the facts alleged in
the application are true and note his or her findings on said application. The
Police Chief shall also investigate the general reputation and character of the
applicant and note his or her findings on the application. Upon the return of
the application by the Police Chief, the Village Clerk shall present the same
to the Village Council at its next regular meeting, or at a special meeting
held for that purpose, and the Village Council shall, by a majority vote of the
members present and voting, either approve or disapprove the application for
granting of the license.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 111.05  LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Upon issuance of the license as hereinabove provided, the licensee shall
then be permitted to operate the establishment licensed under said application
and such license shall at all times be openly displayed in the licensed
establishment.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06  EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE; REVOCATION.
   (A)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on January 1 of each year
but shall be renewed automatically by the Village Clerk upon the payment to him
or her of the annual license fee of $50 by a licensee on or before the
aforesaid expiration date. Upon receipt of payment, the Village Clerk shall
issue a new license for the ensuing year; provided, however, not later than
December 1 of the year preceding the expiration of any license, the Police
Chief shall make an inspection of all establishments for which applications for
renewal licenses are pending and make a written report to the Village Council
as to the lawful operation of such establishments.
   (B)   The Village Council, by a majority vote of its members present and
voting, may revoke any existing license or deny the granting of any application
for a renewal of any license for good cause shown after notice to the licensee
and a public hearing held pursuant to these statutes in such cases made and
provided.   
   (C)   In the event of revocation as herein provided, the Village Clerk shall
forthwith revoke such license and advise the licensee in writing of such
revocation and following which such licensee shall immediately cease and desist
from operating and/or maintaining such establishment.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee may transfer his or her license to a new owner or purchaser of
the establishment upon the payment to the Village Clerk of a transfer fee of
$50 after the proposed transferee has filed an application and been approved by
the Village Council in the same manner as hereinabove required for a new
licensee. The Village Clerk shall then endorse the existing license as having
been properly transferred to the transferee.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 111.08  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No alcoholic beverages or controlled substances shall be used or sold in any
such establishment or anywhere on the premises on which such establishment is
situated at any time and no gambling or gambling devices shall be conducted or
permitted in such establishment at any time. Provided, however, the sale of
alcoholic beverages shall not be prohibited in those establishments licensed
and controlled by the State Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09  HOURS OF OPERATION; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   All establishments licensed hereunder shall be closed after 2:00 a.m., and
shall not open until noon on Sundays. Such establishments shall be open for
inspection by any and all law enforcement officers at all reasonable times.
Such establishments shall be kept clean, orderly, well-lighted and sanitary at
all times and no filth or dirt shall be allowed to accumulate therein. The use
of profanity shall be prohibited and any person who becomes disorderly or
profane shall immediately be ejected from the establishment.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any fraternal, religious
or other organization which maintains billiard or pool tables, pinball games,
video games, dance halls or bowling alleys for the use of their members and
merely incidental to the principal activities of such an organization. Provided
further, any business establishment that has not more than one pool table,
pinball game or video game, the use of which is incidental to its principal
business, shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to the other provisions of this chapter, is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter committed by a person within any six-month period and for which the
person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-14-1997)
CHAPTER 112:  HAWKERS, VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Definition
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Issuance of license; expiration; suspension or revocation
   
112.06   License to be carried and exhibited; nontransferability
   
112.07   Special provisions regarding food products
   
112.08   Cash bond required for taking of orders for future delivery
   
112.09   State license no exemption from this chapter
   
112.10   Invitation required to enter private home
   
112.11   License required for carnivals, fairs or tent shows
   
112.12   License required to take photographs or sell magazines
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Hawkers, Vendors,
Solicitors and Peddlers Chapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON.  An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, company, association
or organization.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall peddle or hawk any goods, wares, merchandise, service or
other articles or things of value within the village, or sell or offer to sell
the same, on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public place, or from
house to house, or place to place, without first obtaining a license from the
village, nor shall any person go from house to house soliciting or taking
orders for goods, wares, merchandise, services or other articles or things of
value to be delivered at some subsequent date or dates, without first obtaining
a license from the village.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each application for license shall be made to the Village Clerk at
least 48 hours in advance of the time for which the applicant seeks its
issuance. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name;
      (2)   The applicant’s local address and telephone number and permanent
address and telephone number (if different from the local address and number);
      (3)   State sales tax license or permit number or exemption certificate;
      (4)   Physical description;
      (5)   Age;
      (6)   The name of any person that the applicant is working for or on
behalf of and that person’s local address; and
      (7)   A brief description of activity the applicant desires to conduct in
the village.
   (B)   The application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992; Ord. 115, passed 4-14-1993)
§ 112.05  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a properly completed application, the Village Clerk
shall issue a license pursuant to this chapter which shall contain all the
information required to be submitted on the application. No license shall be
issued for more than one year or less than one day. All annual licenses shall
expire on May 31 of each year. All licenses for a period of less than one year
shall expire on the date mentioned thereon.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall have authority to revoke or suspend any
license issued as a result of any misrepresentation or false statement made by
the applicant in order to obtain such license, or for the licensee’s violation
of or failure to comply with any village ordinance or state law. The Village
Clerk shall report all suspensions to the Village Council which may for cause
shown revoke or reinstate the license after giving the licensee a reasonable
notice and an opportunity to be heard. No person whose license has been revoked
shall receive another license for a period of one year thereafter.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.06  LICENSE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   The holder of any license issued hereunder shall carry the same with him or
her at all times and shall exhibit it to any citizen upon demand. No licensee
shall alter, remove or delete any entry made on such license. No license issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  SPECIAL PROVISIONS REGARDING FOOD PRODUCTS.
   No license shall be granted to any person for the peddling or hawking of
food, food products or edibles of any character unless the applicant shall
first secure a certificate from the County Health Department or a licensed
medical doctor setting forth that the applicant is not suffering from any
contagious or infectious disease.  If the applicant is not an individual, a
certificate must be provided for each employee of the applicant directly
involved with the hawking or peddling of food, food products or edibles of any
character, or involved with acquiring the product and/or preparing it for sale.
A person selling his or her own home-grown agricultural products at his or her
place of residence shall be exempt from the licensing provisions of this
chapter, provided that no person shall sell his or her products from a motor
vehicle parked on or along a public highway without first obtaining a license.
This section shall not apply to any applicant who desires to sell pre-packaged
food, food products or edibles of any character which are contained, in sealed
packages or containers, and which the applicant is not involved in packaging
for sale.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  CASH BOND REQUIRED FOR TAKING OF ORDERS FOR FUTURE DELIVERY.
   (A)   No person soliciting or taking orders for goods, wares, merchandise,
services or other articles or things of value to be delivered at some future
date or dates shall ask for or receive any deposit or any payment or part
payment of money or other valuable thing in advance of such delivery unless
such person shall have first deposited with the Village Clerk a cash bond in
the amount of $500, or a surety bond in like amount with good and sufficient
sureties to be approved by the Village Clerk, conditioned to indemnify and save
harmless any person dealing with any such solicitor against any damage or loss
which he or she may suffer by reason of the failure of any such good, wares,
merchandise or services to be delivered, or by reason of any false or
fraudulent representation which such solicitor may have made with respect to
the same. No license shall be issued to any solicitor until the bond required
hereby shall have been deposited with and approved by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Deposits of money or bonds made with the Village Clerk as required by
the provisions of this section shall be subject to the claims of creditors in
all cases where a judgment has been obtained against such licensee and the date
for the appeal of such judgment has expired. In such cases, garnishment
proceedings may be commenced against the Village Clerk. It shall be the duty of
the Village Clerk to remit to any court any balance of such cash deposit
remaining in his or her hands not exceeding the amount of the judgment for the
purpose of satisfying the same. Any balance of such cash deposit remaining in
the hands of the Village Clerk for a period of six months after the expiration
of the license shall be remitted to the licensee. Any license issued under the
provisions of this section shall expire and be void as soon as the amount of
the bond filed with the Village Clerk shall have been diminished or used in
whole or in part because of suits as provided for above.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.09  STATE LICENSE NO EXEMPTION FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The fact that any person has been granted a license by the state or other
public authority shall not exempt such person from securing a license from the
village if such license is required by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)
§ 112.10  INVITATION REQUIRED TO ENTER PRIVATE HOME.
   No peddler, hawker or solicitor shall enter any private home or other place
unless invited to do so by the owner or occupant thereof, nor shall any
peddler, hawker or solicitor remain upon any private premises after being
ordered or requested to leave by the owner or occupant thereof.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CARNIVALS, FAIRS OR TENT SHOWS.
   No person shall promote, conduct, operate or maintain any carnival, circus,
fair, freak show or tent show in any public street, alley or other public
place, nor shall any person promote, conduct, operate or maintain the same in
any private place without license from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12  LICENSE REQUIRED TO TAKE PHOTOGRAPHS OR SELL MAGAZINES.
   No person shall go from house to house or place to place within the village
for the purpose of taking photographic portraits or soliciting orders therefor,
or for the purpose of selling or taking orders for magazines, without a
license.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of §§
130.16 through
130.20 committed by a person within any six-month period and for which the
person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   (D)   Each day on which any violation of those sections continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-13-1992; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 113:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Franchise Provisions
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Nonexclusive franchise to install and operate cable television system
   
113.04   Authority granted by franchise
   
113.05   Application for franchise
   
113.06   Franchise procedure
   
113.07   Acceptance of franchise
   
113.08   Franchise requirements
   
113.09   Construction and use of facilities
   
113.10   Standards
   
113.11   Franchise limitation
   
113.12   Regulation of rates and service
   
113.13   Inspection of property and records
   
113.14   Default
Rate Regulation
   
113.25   Definitions
   
113.26   Purpose; interpretation
   
113.27   Rate regulation promulgated by FCC
   
113.28   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
113.29   Proprietary information
   
113.30   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
113.31   Tolling order
   
113.32   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following 30-day
deadline
   
113.33   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
113.34   Rate decisions and orders
   
113.35   Refunds; notice
   
113.36   Written decision; public notice
   
113.37   Additional rules adopted by Council
   
113.38   Failure to give notice
   
113.39   Additional hearings
   
113.40   Additional powers
   
113.41   Failure to comply; remedies
   
113.42   Conflicting provisions
FRANCHISE PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  TITLE.
   This shall be known as the Cable Television Subchapter.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE.  The simultaneous delivery by the grantee to the television,
radio or other appropriate communications receiver of a subscriber of all
signals of over-the-air broadcasters required by the Federal Communications
Commission or this subchapter to be carried by the cable television system of
the grantee, together with such additional public, educational, governmental,
leased or other access channels or signals as may be likewise required by law,
but not including pay or subscription television as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   COMMITTEE.  A committee of the Village Council consisting of three Council
members, appointed by the Village President, which shall be directly
responsible for over-seeing and controlling the granting of a franchise
pursuant to this subchapter and for over-seeing any franchise which may be
granted.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV  or  CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM.  A
system employing antenna, microwave, wires, wave guides, coaxial cables or
other conductors, equipment or facilities designed, constructed or used for the
purpose of:
      (1)   Collecting and amplifying local or distant broadcast television or
radio signals and distributing and transmitting same;
      (2)   Transmitting original cablecast programming not received through
television broadcast signals; or 
      (3)   Transmitting television pictures, film and video tape programs, not
received through broadcast television signals, whether or not encoded or
processed to permit reception by only selected receivers; provided, however,
that any of the services permitted hereunder to be performed, as described
above, shall be those performed by the grantee for subscribers, as herein
defined in the operation of a cable television or CATV system franchised by the
village and not otherwise, and provided further that such term shall not
include any such facility or system that serves only the residents of one or
more apartment dwelling or commercial establishments under common ownership,
control or management.
   FRANCHISE.  Any authorization granted hereunder in terms of a franchise,
privilege, permit, license or otherwise to construct, operate and maintain a
cable television system within the village.
   FRANCHISE AREA.  The territory within the village throughout which the
grantee shall be authorized hereunder to construct, maintain and operate its
system.
   GRANTEE.  Any person, firm or corporation receiving the grant of any
franchise hereunder and shall include any lawful successor to the interest of
such person, firm or corporation.
   SUBSCRIBER or USER.  Any person or entity receiving for any purpose any
service of the grantee’s cable television system including, but not limited to,
the conventional cable television system service of re-transmission of
television broadcast, radio signals, the grantee’s original cablecasting and
the local government, education and public access channels; and other services,
such as leasing of channels, data and facsimile transmission, pay television
and police, fire and similar public service communication.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Three Oaks.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL.  The Council of the village.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.03  NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE TO INSTALL AND OPERATE CABLE TELEVISION
SYSTEM.
   A nonexclusive franchise to install, construct, operate and maintain a cable
television system on streets within the village may be granted by the Village
Council to any person whether operating under an existing franchise, or not,
who offers to furnish and provide such system under and pursuant to the terms
and provisions of this subchapter. No provision of this subchapter may be
deemed or construed to require the granting of a franchise when, in the opinion
of the Council, it is in the public interest to restrict the number of the
grantees to one or more, and competitive franchises covering the same territory
shall be restricted to those instances where the applicant for the second
franchise can offer a unique or legally protected service which is not
available and cannot be made available to the grantee of the existing
franchise.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.04  AUTHORITY GRANTED BY FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall authorize and permit the grantee to do the following:
      (1)   Erect, install, construct, repair, replace, re-construct, maintain
and retain, in, on, over, under, across and along any public street, alley, way
or place now laid out and dedicated and all extensions thereof, such poles,
wires, cable, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant
to the CATV system; and in addition, so to use, operate and provide similar
facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons, firms or
corporations, including, but not limited to, any public utility or other
grantee of any franchise of this village;
      (2)   Maintain and operate facilities and properties for the collection,
transmission, conduction, amplification, conversion and distribution of
programs and other services by use of electricity, radiation or other energy
source; or
      (3)   Solicit, sell, distribute and make charge to subscribers within the
village for connection to the CATV system of the grantee.
   (B)   A franchise granted solely to traverse any portion of the village in
order to provide service outside the village, shall not authorize nor permit
the grantee to solicit, sell, distribute or make any charge to subscribers
within the village, nor to render any service or connect any subscribers within
the village to the CATV system of the grantee.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.05  APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE.
   All applications to construct, operate or maintain any CATV system in this
village or to traverse any portion of the village for transmitting or conveying
of such service elsewhere, shall be filed with the Village Clerk, and each
application shall set forth, contain or be accompanied by the following:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (B)   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the applicant including, but not limited to, the following;
      (1)   The names, residence addresses and business addresses of all
officers, directors and partners or business associates of the applicant;
      (2)   The names, residence addresses and business addresses of all
persons and entities having an ownership interest in the applicant and the
respective ownership share of each such person or entity;
      (3)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant and of any other business entity owning or controlling in whole or in
part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a
statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business
entity, including, but not limited to, all CATV or similar systems owned or
controlled by the applicant, its parent or subsidiary and the areas served
thereby;
      (4)   A detailed description of all previous experience of the applicant
as to providing CATV service or related or similar services;
      (5)   A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant,
prepared by certified public accountant, for the fiscal year next preceding the
date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence in
writing from a responsible lending institution or funding source, addressed to
both the applicant and the Council, setting forth the basis for a study
performed by such lending institution or funding source, and a clear statement
of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide whatever
capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate the
proposed system in the village, or a statement from a certified public
accountant, certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net
and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed system in
this village; and
      (6)   A statement indentifying, by place and date, any other cable
television franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiaries;
the status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; the total
cost of completion of such system(s); and the amount of applicant’s and its
parent’s or subsidiary’s resources committed to the completion thereof.
   (C)   A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the
applicant, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, routes
to be taken, a diagram of the equipment which will be exposed and a proposed
time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to become
operational throughout the entire area to be served;
      (2)   A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed classifications
of rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all rates and charges
as to each of any said classification, including installation charges, service
charges and special, extraordinary or other charges. The purchase price, terms
and nature of any optional or required equipment, device or other thing to be
offered for sale to any subscriber shall be described and explained in detail;
and
      (3)   A detailed statement describing the actual equipment and
operational standards proposed by the applicant.
   (D)   A copy of the form of any agreement undertaking or other instrument
proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any subscriber;
   (E)   Any other information pertinent to the subject matter of such
application and requested by the Committee; and
   (F)   An application fee in the sum of $250 which shall be in the form of
cash, certified or cashier’s check or money order to pay the costs of studying,
investigating and otherwise processing such application and shall not be
returnable or refundable in whole or in part except to the extent that such fee
exceeds the actual cost incurred by the village in studying, investigating and
otherwise processing the application.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.06  FRANCHISE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Village Council may, by advertisement or any other means, solicit
and call for application for CATV franchises, and may determine and fix the
time for filing such applications.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any application for franchise, in manner, time and
form as herein or otherwise provided, the Village Clerk shall forward and
deliver same to the Committee.
   (C)   Upon receiving the same from the Village Clerk, as aforesaid, the
Committee shall cause such application to be investigated, shall prepare a
report of such investigation, shall make its recommendations respecting such
application, and shall cause said report and recommendations to be placed upon
the agenda of a regular or special session of the Village Council. A copy of
such report and recommendations and notice of the date it will be presented to
the Village Council shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the applicant at
the address listed in the application. The Village Clerk shall cause notice of
such meeting to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, stating the hour, date and place of the meeting,
stating that the proposed franchise will be considered, and stating that
comments from the public will be heard.
   (D)   The Village Council shall receive the report and recommendations of
the Committee, shall consider the same together with such application, and
comments of the public and shall make its determination either that such
application be accepted upon such terms and conditions as the Village Council
shall determine, or that such application be rejected. The Village Council may
make its determination at the regular or special session at which the Committee
report is received or may defer the decision to a subsequent regular session of
the Village Council. In making any determination as to any application, the
Council shall consider the quality of the service proposed, the rates to
subscribers, income to the village, experience, character and financial
responsibility of the applicant and its management and owners, the technical
and performance quality of the equipment to be used, the willingness and
ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements, policy
considerations, franchise limitations and requirements imposed by this
subchapter and any other considerations deemed pertinent by the Village
Council.
   (E)   If the Village Council shall determine that such application shall be
rejected, such determination shall be final and conclusive. If the Village
Council shall determine that such application shall be accepted, the Council
shall:
      (1)   Decide and specify the terms and conditions of any franchise to be
granted hereunder and as herein provided; and
      (2)   Pass an ordinance or resolution granting such franchise, stating
the name of the grantee, the character of the franchise and the terms and
conditions upon which such franchise is granted.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.07  ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No franchise hereunder shall become effective for any purpose unless
and until a written acceptance thereof shall have been filed with the Village
Clerk, and such written acceptance shall operate as an acceptance of each and
every term and condition and limitation contained in this subchapter, and in
such franchise.
   (B)   Such written acceptance shall be filed by the grantee not later than
30 days after grant of the franchise as provided above, and in default of such
written acceptance as herein required, the grantee shall be deemed to have
rejected the same.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.08  FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to any other franchise requirements hereunder, or made or
adopted as herein provided, the following requirements shall apply to any
franchise granted or renewed by the Village Council under this subchapter.
   (A)   Franchise payments, operations within franchise area. In consideration
of the granting and exercise of a franchise to use the streets of the franchise
area for the purpose of operating a cable television system for the use and
benefit of subscribers therein, the grantee shall pay yearly to the village
during the entire time of any franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter, an
annual franchise fee equal to 3% of the grantee’s yearly gross revenues derived
from all cable services provided by the grantee within the village, or $250,
whichever is greater.
   (B)   Franchise payments, operations outside franchise area. In
consideration of the granting and exercise of a franchise to use the streets of
the franchise area solely for the purpose of providing cable television service
to subscribers outside the franchise area, the grantee shall pay to the village
during the entire life of the franchise, a franchise fee as specified by the
Council when such franchise is granted, which fee shall be separate and
distinct from that specified in division (A) above.
   (C)   Franchise payments not in lieu of taxes. Any franchise payments to the
village by the grantee shall not be in lieu of any occupation, income, license
or property tax or similar levy, assessment or charge which would otherwise
apply to and be payable by the grantee.
   (D)   Corporate surety bond re: village. The franchise granted shall specify
that upon acceptance of such franchise, the grantee shall file with the Village
Clerk and shall thereafter during the entire term of such franchise maintain in
full force and effect a corporate surety bond or other adequate surety
agreement in the amount and kind specified in the franchise granted and
conditioned that in the event the grantee shall fail to comply with any one or
more of the provisions of such franchise, then there shall be recoverable
jointly and severally from the principal and surety any damages or costs
suffered or incurred by the village or by any subscriber as a result thereof,
including attorneys’ fees and costs of any action, or proceeding, and including
the full amount of any compensation, indemnification, cost of removal of any
property or other costs which may be incurred up to the full principal amount
of such bond; and said condition shall be a continuing obligation during the
entire term of such franchise and thereafter until the grantee shall have
satisfied in full any and all obligations to the village and any subscriber
which arise out of or pertain to said franchise. Neither the provisions of this
section, nor any bond accepted by the village pursuant hereto nor any damages
recovered by the village thereunder shall be construed to excuse faithful
performance by the grantee, or limit the liability of the grantee under any
franchise issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   Comprehensive liability insurance. Upon acceptance of such franchise,
the grantee shall file with the Village Clerk and shall thereafter during the
entire term of such franchise maintain in full force and effect a comprehensive
liability policy of insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 for
property damage to any one person, $500,000 for property damage in any one
accident, $500,000 for personal injury to any one person and $1,000,000 for
personal injury in any one accident or such higher amounts as the Village
Council may fix in the franchise, or any amendment thereto, and of such
insuring institutions, form and substance as shall be approved by the
Committee, and which shall assure the grantee, and shall provide primary
coverage for the village, its officers, board, committees, agents and employees
against liability for loss or damage for personal injury, death and property
damage occasioned by any activity or operation of the grantee under such
franchise.
   (F)   Hold harmless agreement. The grantee shall indemnify and hold harmless
the village, its officers, board, committees, agents and employees against and
from any and all claims, demands, causes of actions, actions, suits,
proceedings, damages, (including, but not limited, to damages to village
property and damages arising out of copyright infringements, and damages
arising out of any failure by the grantee to secure consents from the owners,
authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be delivered by the
grantee’s cable television system), costs or liabilities (including costs or
liabilities of the village with respect to its employees), of every kind and
nature whatsoever including, but not limited to, damages for injury or death or
damage to person or property, and regardless of the merit of any of the same,
against all liability to others, and against any loss, cost and expense
resulting or arising out of any of the same including any attorney fees,
accountant fees, expert witness or consultant fees, court costs, per diem
expense, travelling and transportation expense or other costs or expense
arising out of or pertaining to the exercise or the enjoyment of any franchise
hereunder by the grantee or the granting thereof by the village.
   (G)   Defense of litigation. The grantee shall at the sole risk and expense
of the grantee, upon demand of the village, made by and through the Village
Attorney, appear in and defend any and all suits, actions or other legal
proceedings whether judicial, quasi-judicial, administrative, legislative or
otherwise, brought or instituted or had by third persons or duly constituted
authorities, against or affecting the village, its officers, board, committees,
agents or employees and arising out of or pertaining to the exercise or the
enjoyment of such franchise, or the granting thereof by the village.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.09  CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after acceptance of any franchise, the grantee shall
proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary permits and authorizations
which are required in the conduct of its business, including, but not limited,
to any utility joint use attachment agreements, microwave carrier licenses, and
any other permits, licenses and authorizations to be granted by duly
constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operation of cable
television systems, or associated microwave transmissions facilities. In
connection therewith, copies of all petitions, applications and communications
submitted by the grantee to the Federal Communications Commission or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or any agency having jurisdiction in
respect to any matters affecting the grantee’s cable television operations,
shall also be submitted simultaneously to the Committee.
   (B)   Within 30 days after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and
authorizations, including right of access to poles and conduits, the grantee
shall commence construction and installation of the CATV system.
   (C)   Within two years after the commencement of construction and
installation of the system, the grantee shall complete construction of the
facilities needed to permit the reception of broadcast signals, the origination
of programming within the village, and the distribution of signals to the
franchise area. Provided, however, the Village Council may approve exceptions
to this requirement upon a showing by the grantee of undue hardship or expense.
   (D)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth herein shall be grounds for termination of such franchise.
   (E)   The grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other
facilities whenever possible and shall not construct or install any new,
different or additional poles, conduits or other facilities without first
securing the written approval of the Committee. Any poles, conduits or other
facilities of the grantee to be installed in, under, over, along, across or
upon a public street, alley, way or place shall be so located so as to cause
minimum interference with the rights of other users of the streets, alleys,
ways or places or of property owners who adjoin any of the streets, alleys,
ways or places. In the event of disturbance of any public street, alley, place
or way by the grantee, it shall, at its own expense, promptly replace and
restore such street to as good a condition as before the work causing such
disturbance was performed, and to the satisfaction of the Committee.
   (F)   In all sections of the village where all existing cables or other like
facilities of utility companies are presently or subsequently placed
underground, the grantee shall place its cables or like facilities underground,
at the grantee’s expense.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, free of charge, to make additional
use, for any public or municipal purpose, whether governmental or proprietary,
of any poles, conduits or other facilities erected, controlled, or maintained
exclusively by or for the grantee in any street or other public way or public
place, provided such use by the village does not interfere with the use by the
grantee.
   (H)   The grantee shall at the expense of the grantee, protect, support,
temporarily disconnect or temporarily relocate any property of the grantee
when, in the opinion of the Committee, the same is required by reason of street
construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers,
drains, waterpipes, power lines or signal lines.
   (I)   In the event the use of any part of the system of the grantee is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 30 days, without prior
written notice to and approval by the Committee, or in the event any part of
such system has been installed in any street or other area without complying
with the requirements hereof, or in the event any franchise shall be
terminated, cancelled or shall expire, the grantee shall, at the option of the
village, and at the expense of the grantee and at no expense to the village,
promptly remove from any street or other area all property of the grantee and
the grantee shall promptly restore the street or other area from which such
property has been removed to such condition as the Committee shall approve;
provided the Village Council may, upon written application therefore by the
grantee; approve the abandonment of any such property in place by the grantee
and under such terms and conditions as the Village Council may prescribe; and
upon abandonment of any such property in place, the grantee shall cause to be
executed, acknowledged and delivered to the village such instruments as shall
be approved by the Committee, conveying the ownership of such property to the
village.
   (J)   Upon the failure, refusal or neglect of the grantee to cause any work
or other act required by law or by this subchapter to be completed in, on, over
or under any street within any time prescribed therefor, or upon notice given,
where notice is prescribed, the Committee may cause such work or other act to
be completed in whole or in part, and upon so doing shall submit to the grantee
an itemized statement of the costs thereof, and the grantee shall, within 30
days after receipt of such statement, pay unto the village the entire amount
thereof.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.10  STANDARDS.
   (A)   General rules. The CATV system of a grantee receiving a franchise
shall:
      (1)   Be capable of relaying to subscriber terminals television and radio
broadcast signals;
      (2)   Be constructed with the capability of two-way digital signal
transmission;
      (3)   Distribute color television signals which it receives;
      (4)   Be constructed and operated so as not to interfere with the
television reception of persons not served by the grantee and so as not to
interfere with, obstruct or hinder in any manner the operation of any utility
serving the village;
      (5)   Provide at least one channel, without charge, for exclusive use of
the village and other governmental agencies;
      (6)   Provide at least one channel, without charge, for use by the public
school system;  provided, however, the Village Council may waive this
requirement at the time a franchise is granted if the franchise so granted
provides for the addition of said channel by the grantee at the request of the
Village Council, after the Village Council has determined there is a demand for
said channel; and
      (7)   Provide at least one channel as a public access channel for use by
civic groups and interested citizens; provided, however, the Village Council
may waive this requirement at the time a franchise is granted if the franchise
so granted provides for the addition of said channel by the grantee at the
request of the Village Council, after the Village Council has determined there
is a demand for said channel.
   (B)   Additional services. The cable television system may also engage in
the business of:
      (1)   Transmitting original cablecast programming not received through
television broadcast signals;
      (2)   Transmitting television pictures, film and videotape programs, not
received through broadcast television signals, whether or not encoded or
processed to permit reception by only selected receivers or subscribers; and/or
      (3) Transmitting and receiving all other signals: digital, voice and
audio-visual.
   (C)   Refusal of service. No person, firm or corporation within the service
area of the grantee, and where trunk lines are in place, shall be refused
service; provided, however, that the grantee shall not be required to provide
service to any subscriber who does not pay the applicable connection fee or
service charges.
   (D)   Service standards. The grantee shall:
      (1)   Correct malfunctions promptly but in no event later than 24 hours
after occurrence; in the event it should be impossible or impractical to
correct any malfunctions within 24 hours, then each subscriber whose reception
is so disrupted shall receive a rebate from the grantee in the amount of one
thirtieth of such subscriber’s monthly charge for every additional 24-hour
period that said subscriber’s television reception is so disrupted, unless said
disruption in service was entirely beyond the control of the grantee;
      (2)   Answer all complaints by subscribers;
      (3)   Planned interruptions of service, insofar as possible, shall be
preceded by a notice given to subscribers 24 hours in advance and shall occur
during periods of minimum use of the system;
      (4)   Maintain an office in the village, which office shall be open
during the usual business hours, with a local telephone number listed in
directories of the telephone company serving the village, which office shall be
so operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received at any time, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, provided, however,
that the Village Council may waive the requirement of maintaining an office in
the village, if the grantee shall maintain an office in the area, subject to
the same standards as if in the village, and provide an agent in the village to
receive payments and accept complaints; and
      (5)   Provide notice of such office, or area office and local agent, and
the grantee’s complaint procedure to each subscriber at the time of initial
subscription to the system.
   (E)   Complaint procedures. The Committee shall have primary responsibility
for the administration of complaints regarding cable television franchises, and
shall adopt procedures to be followed in resolving and processing such
complaints.
   (F)   Content. The grantee shall not send, transmit, retransmit or otherwise
pass through its system any material, audio or visual, which is obscene under
state or local law or any motion picture which has been rated “X” by the Motion
Picture Film Board.
   (G)   Failure to provide service. Any grantee of any franchise hereunder who
shall, within one year after the payment of any installation charge by any
subscriber, fail to operate its system or make its system available to such
subscriber, on a regular and continuous basis, shall refund the installation
charge to such subscriber, together with interest thereon at not less than 5%
per year.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.11  FRANCHISE LIMITATION.
   In addition to any other franchise limitations hereunder or as herein
provided, the following limitations shall apply to any franchise granted or
renewed by the Village Council under this subchapter.
   (A)   Nature of franchise. Such franchise shall be nonexclusive, and neither
the granting thereof nor any of the provisions contained herein or in such
franchise shall limit, abridge, diminish, alter or affect the right, privilege,
power or authority of the Village Council; and the Village Council hereby
reserves and preserves the right to grant any identical or similar or different
franchise to any person, firm or corporation other than the grantee, either
within or without or partly within or partly without the franchise area of any
grantee, subject only to the restrictions provided in §
113.04(A) of this subchapter. No privilege or exemption shall be granted or
conferred by any franchise granted hereunder except those specifically
prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Subordination of franchise privileges. The grant of any privilege by
any franchise hereunder shall be subordinate to any prior lawful occupancy of
any street or public property or to the grant of any privilege under any other
franchise of prior date, insofar as there shall be any conflict.
   (C)   Transfer of franchise. Any franchise granted hereunder shall be a
privilege to be held in personal trust by the original grantee. It cannot, in
any event, be sold, transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of in whole or in
part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by voluntary sale, merger,
consolidation or otherwise without prior written consent of the Village
Council, and then only under such conditions as may therein be prescribed.
      (1)   Notice and request for approval of any proposed sale or transfer of
this franchise must be given to the Village Council not later than 90 days
before the proposed sale or transfer. Any such transfer or assignment shall be
made only by an instrument in writing, such as a bill of sale, or similar
document, a duly executed copy of which shall be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk within 30 days after any such transfer or assignment. The said
consent of the Village Council may not be unreasonably refused; provided,
however, the proposed assignee must show financial responsibility as determined
by the Village Council and must agree to comply with all the provisions of the
franchise and of this subchapter; and provided, further, that no such consent
shall be required for a transfer in trust, mortgage or otherwise, in whole or
in part, to secure an indebtedness, except that when such transfer shall exceed
50% of the market value of the property used by the franchisee in the conduct
of the cable television system, prior consent of the Village Council shall be
required for such a transfer. Such a consent shall not be withheld
unreasonably.
      (2)   In the event that the grantee is a corporation, prior approval of
the Village Council, expressed by resolution, shall be required where there is
an actual change in control or where ownership of more than 30% of the voting
stock of the grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in
concert, none of whom already own 30% or more of the voting stock, singly or
collectively.
   (D)   Term of franchise. No franchise granted or renewed by the Village
Council under this subchapter shall be for a term shorter than five years,
unless terminated prior to its expiration as herein provided, nor shall any
such franchise be granted or renewed for a term longer than 15 years. Any
franchise renewal shall be subject to the prior approval of the Village Council
utilizing the same procedures as prescribed herein for the granting of a new
franchise.
   (E)   Review of franchise. Every five years after the effective date of the
franchise the Council and the grantee shall jointly review the performance of
the grantee’s operation and specifically the Village Council will inquire
whether the grantee is supplying a level and variety of services equivalent to
those being generally offered at the time in the industry, in comparable market
situations. In the event that the grantee desires to change or modify its
obligations under its franchise, it may negotiate with the Village Council to
do so at that time. Within 60 days of the conclusion of the review the Village
Council and the grantee shall report in public proceeding the result of their
review and their conclusions. The Village Council may then order unilateral
changes in the franchise rights and obligations of the grantee where said
changes cause no economic impact. Any changes that cause substantial adverse
economic impact shall be the subject of negotiations with the grantee. Any
disputes hereunder shall be resolved by arbitrators, one selected by each party
and the third selected by the other two, whose decision shall be final. The
arbitrators are to base their decision on what is fair and equitable to all
concerned.
   (F)   Recourse against village. The grantee shall have no recourse or remedy
whatsoever against the village for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising
out of or with respect to any franchise hereunder, or this subchapter, or the
enforcement thereof.
   (G)   Village rules and regulations. The grantee shall be subject to all
ordinances, rules, regulations and specifications of the village heretofore or
hereafter established including but not limited to, those pertaining to works
and activities, in, on, over, under and about streets.
   (H)   Prohibited activities of the grantee. The grantee shall be prohibited
from directly or indirectly doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in the business of selling at retail, leasing, renting,
repairing or servicing of television sets or radios;
      (2)   Soliciting, referring or causing or permitting the solicitation or
referral of any subscriber to persons engaged in any business herein prohibited
to be engaged in by the grantee;
      (3)   Providing information concerning the viewing patterns of
identifiable individual subscribers to any person, group or organization for
any purpose, without the consent of the subscriber;
      (4)   Entering or encroaching upon or interfering with or obstructing any
private property without the express consent of the owner; and
      (5)   Providing any repair service to its subscribers for a fee, which
repair extends beyond the connection of its service or the determination by the
grantee of the quality of its signals to the recipients thereof.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.12  REGULATION OF RATES AND SERVICE.
   At the time of the granting of any franchise hereunder, the Village Council
shall approve and include therein all rates and charges allowable to the
grantee, including, but not limited to, all such rates and charges for
installation of equipment, service charges for all classifications of service
including additional connections at one location and any other rates and
charges of the grantee to subscribers. No such rates or charges shall be
changed at any time after the granting of a franchise, except by authority of
the Village Council, and upon written request by the grantee, provided, that
prior to authorizing the change of any rates or charges of the grantee to
subscribers, at any time after the granting of such franchise, the Village
Council shall first pass its resolution of intention to do so, describing and
stating any rates or charges to be changed, the reasons of the Village Council
therefor, fixing a day, hour and place certain when and where any persons
having an interest therein may appear before the Village Council and be heard
and directing the Village Clerk to publish notice of such hearing at least
once. The Village Clerk shall cause such notice to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation within the village, and the same shall be published and
a copy thereof shall be mailed to any grantee hereunder at least ten days prior
to the date specified for hearing thereon. At the time set for such hearing, or
at any adjournment thereof, the Village Council shall proceed to hear and pass
on all presentations made before it, and the decision of the Village Council
thereon shall be final and conclusive. If the Village Council shall find that a
change of rates or charges is justified by a change in cost of operation, the
Village Council shall approve the change in rates.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.13  INSPECTION OF PROPERTY AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall at all reasonable times, and to the extent necessary
to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, permit any duly authorized
agent or representative of the village to examine all franchise property of the
grantee, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee situated within
or without the village, and to examine and transcribe any and all maps and
other records kept or maintained by the grantee or under the control or
direction or at the request of the grantee which appertain to the franchise
operations, affairs, transactions or property of the grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the Committee, at such times
and in such form as prescribed by the Committee, references and materials with
respect to the operations, affairs, transactions or property of the grantee as
may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the
duties of the Committee.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
§ 113.14  DEFAULT.
   Failure, refusal, or neglect by the grantee to comply with any requirement
herein, or any term or condition of a franchise issued hereunder shall be
sufficient cause for termination of any franchise by the village as follows.
   (A)   Upon the continuing of any such failure, refusal or neglect for a
period of ten days, next following written demand by the Committee that the
grantee do or comply with any such requirement, limitation, term or condition,
the Committee may cause to be placed on the agenda of a regular session of the
Village Council its request for termination of such franchise, and in such
case, the Committee shall cause to be served upon such grantee, at least 15
days prior to the date of such session of the Village Council, a written notice
of its intent to request such termination at the time and place of such
session.
   (B)   At such session of the Village Council, or any adjournment thereof,
the Village Council shall consider the request of the Committee and shall hear
any persons desiring to be heard, and shall determine whether or not such
failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just cause.
   (C)   If the Village Council shall determine such failure, refusal or
neglect by the grantee was without just cause, then the Village Council may
pass its resolution declaring that the franchise of such grantee shall be
terminated and forfeited unless there is compliance by the grantee within 15
days, and such resolution shall operate to declare such franchise terminated
and forfeited on the fifteenth day next following the passage thereof, and
without further notice to the grantee, unless the grantee shall so comply
within such 15-day period, such termination and forfeiture to become effective
for all purposes 180 days thereafter.
   (D)   Within 180 days after such declaration of termination and forfeiture,
the grantee may sell, remove, or transfer the entire system of the grantee,
subject to the provisions of §
113.11(C) of this subchapter and upon any such sale or transfer in addition to
any other rights hereunder or otherwise, the village shall have a lien (next in
order of preference to any liens or encumbrances existing of record on the date
of such termination and forfeiture) against any and all proceeds thereof in the
full amount of any loss, cost, expense or other financial detriment incurred by
the village in the exercise of any right hereunder, or by reason of such
termination and forfeiture.
   (E)   If the grantee shall fail to or refuse to sell, remove or transfer the
entire system of the grantee, as hereinabove provided, and regardless of the
exercise of any other right of the village hereunder, then the village may
institute appropriate court action to enforce requirements of this section.
(Ord. 77, passed 8-6-1981)
RATE REGULATION
§ 113.25  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT.  The Cable Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., as amended (and specifically as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385), and as may be
amended from time to time.
      ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT.  All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE.  “Basic service” as defined in the FCC Rules, and
any other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
village pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
      FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
      FCC RULES.  All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant
to the Act.
      INCREASE IN RATES.  An INCREASE IN RATES or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in this subchapter shall have the
same meaning as defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.26  PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
   (B)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the village. This subchapter shall be implemented
and interpreted consistent with the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.27  RATE REGULATION PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the village shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.28  FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates, or its proposed increase in rates, complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the Village Clerk. For purposes of this subchapter, the
filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least
ten copies have been received by the Village Clerk. The Village Council may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the village pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the Village President in connection with the
village’s review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The Village
President may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information
and the cable operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.29  PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this subchapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the village
pursuant to §
113.28(A) or any request for information pursuant to §
113.28(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly
proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request that
specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and
withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the village
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552. The village shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that
results in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied:
      (1)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or
      (2)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of the
denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the village. The village shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or
condition a request. The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review
of the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will
be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.30  PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
113.28(A), the Village Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Village Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Village Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice
is published.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time and place of the meeting at which the Village Council shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be mailed by
first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition, if a
written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the Village Council, then the Village
Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first class mail to the cable operator
at least three days before the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.31  TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
113.28(A) unless the Village Council (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30 days’ deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing
a brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date
of filing. The Village Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional
90 days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional
150 days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.32  PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING 30-DAY
DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
113.31 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the village any additional
information required or requested pursuant to §
113.28. In addition, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Village Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.33  STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Village President shall cause a report to
be prepared for the Village Council which shall (based on the filing of the
cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the Village Council pursuant to §
113.34. The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator
by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Village Council acts under
§
113.34. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Village Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator, the Village Clerk shall forward it to the Village Council.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.34  RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Village Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the Village Council issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days of the tolling order under §
113.31 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
113.31 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.35  REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The Village Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the Village Council orders any refund to subscribers,
the Village Clerk shall give at least seven days’ written notice to the cable
operator by first-class mail of the date, time and place at which the Village
Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
Village Council.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.36  WRITTEN DECISION; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Village Council pursuant to §
113.34 or §
113.35 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Village
Council and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written
order in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.37  ADDITIONAL RULES ADOPTED BY COUNCIL.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
113.28, the Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.38  FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Village Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this subchapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the Village Council.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.39  ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, the Village Council may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the Village
Council, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.40  ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The village shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules and this subchapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise. The village may take any
action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public
interest in connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.41  FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The village may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s franchise with the village) for failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
this subchapter, any requirements of this subchapter or any rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply
with the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village
pursuant to this subchapter, any requirements of this subchapter or any rules
and regulations promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for
revocation or denial of renewal of a cable operator’s franchise.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
§ 113.42  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this subchapter and the provisions of
any prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other
agreement with a cable operator, then the provisions of this subchapter shall
control.
(Ord. 117, passed 10-13-1993)
CHAPTER 114:  SECOND HAND DEALERS, JUNK SHOPS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required; persons prohibited from receiving license
   
114.03   Fees; expiration of license
   
114.04   Metal tag to be kept by licensee
   
114.05   Business to be conducted inside building; fences or gates
   
114.06   Dealing in second hand articles
   
114.07   Sales of second hand bedding and clothing
   
114.08   Business hours
   
114.09   Sign; records
   
114.10   Articles to be held for certain time; description of articles to be
provided to Village Clerk
   
114.11   Purchases from certain persons prohibited
   
114.12   Maintenance of premises
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR.  A person engaged in the business of collecting, receiving or
purchasing second hand property or junk.
   JUNK.  Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for re-use, re-
sale, reduction or similar disposition, or which is possessed, transported,
owned, collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted for any of the aforesaid
purposes. Without limiting the aforesaid definition of JUNK, the term shall
include used or salvaged iron, brass, lead, copper and other base metal or
metals and their compounds or combinations; used or salvaged ropes, bags,
paper, rags, glass, rubber and similar articles or property, and used motor
vehicles which are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   JUNK DEALER.  Every person who engages in the business of buying,
exchanging, collecting, receiving, storing or selling any article or articles
hereinabove defined as “junk.”
   JUNK YARD or JUNK SHOP.  Any place at which a junk dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores, accumulates, sells or otherwise handles junk.
   MOTOR VEHICLE DISMANTLING ESTABLISHMENT OR YARD.  Any place at which motor
vehicles are dismantled for purposes of taking the parts thereof for re-use or
re-sale or destroying or salvaging same, and/or any place where motor vehicles
are stored or accumulated for the purposes of dismantling same.
   PERSON.  Firm, corporation or individual PERSON.
   SECOND HAND DEALER.  Any person who engages in the business of buying,
exchanging,  collecting, receiving, storing or selling any property defined in
this section as “second hand property.”
   SECOND HAND PROPERTY.  Any used household furniture, used wearing apparel,
used lumber, used brick, used tile, used plumbing fixtures, used electrical
fixtures, used articles made of precious metal or metals, used jewelry, used
tools, used motor vehicles or parts thereof and any other used articles or
personal property bought and sold by and from other than the original purchaser
and user.
   SECOND HAND STORE.  Any place at which a second hand dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores or sells second hand property.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.02  LICENSE REQUIRED; PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM RECEIVING LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate a second hand store or junk shop
or junk yard or motor vehicle dismantling establishment, without first
obtaining a license therefor. Application for such license shall be made to the
Village Clerk upon blanks to be provided. The applicant shall state his or her
name, whether a person, firm or corporation, the place or places at which such
business is to be or is conducted or maintained and the applicant’s residence
for a period of three years preceding such application. The applications so
received by the Village Clerk shall be referred to the Village President and by
him or her to the Village Marshal, for purposes of investigation and
recommendation by such.
   (B)   After receipt of such recommendations, the application shall be
submitted to the Village Council. The sole power to grant licenses hereunder is
vested in said Village Council. Licenses granted by said Village Council shall
be issued by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Any applicant seeking to establish a second hand store or junk shop or
junk yard or motor vehicles dismantling establishment, in a location not
previously used for that purpose, or any licensee seeking to move or establish
same in a location not previously used for that purpose, must first obtain the
consent in writing of 65% of the owners of residential property within 300
yards of any part of the area in which the proposed business is to be
conducted. Said area shall include any portion to be used for the storage of
any property in connection with such proposed business.
   (D)   No second hand store, junk shop, junk yard or motor vehicle
dismantling yard or any part thereof, shall be hereafter established or located
in any residential zone in the village nor shall same be hereafter established
or located within 300 feet from any public street or highway in the village,
nor shall same be hereafter established or located within 300 feet from any
inhabited building or dwelling, nor shall same be hereafter established or
located within 300 feet from any adjoining private property line.
   (E)   No person known to be a thief or an associate of thieves, an habitual
drunkard, a receiver of stolen property or incapable of keeping the records and
making the reports herein provided for shall be deemed to be a suitable person
to receive a license as second hand dealer or junk dealer,  and any person to
whom a license as may have been granted, may have his or her license revoked by
the Village Council on good cause shown and after reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard before such Village Council or committee thereof.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.03  FEES; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following fees shall be paid:
      (1)   For each person, corporation, co-partnership or firm engaged in or
carrying on the business in the village of second hand dealer or junk dealer as
defined in §
114.01, having a yard for the storage of second hand property and/or junk, the
sum of $25 per annum; provided, that a separate license must be taken out for
each yard so used for the storage of second hand property and/or junk;
      (2)   For each person, corporation, co-partnership or firm engaged in or
carrying on the business in the village of second hand dealer or junk dealer as
hereinbefore defined, having a store room or building for the storage of second
hand property and/or junk, the sum of $25 per annum; provided, that a separate
license must be taken out for each separate location so used for the storage of
second hand property and/or junk; and
      (3)   For each collector in the village, as defined in §
114.01, the sum of $5 per annum.
   (B)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on March 1 of each year.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04  METAL TAG TO BE KEPT BY LICENSEE.
   Each collector licensed hereunder shall receive from the Village Clerk a
metal tag not exceeding six inches in diameter bearing the type of license and
the license number. Said tag shall be kept by such collector on his or her
person or vehicle when engaged in the business of collecting second hand
property or junk as defined in §
114.01, and said tag must be produced at the request of any police officer or
private person.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.05  BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED INSIDE BUILDING; FENCES OR GATES.
   (A)   No person shall maintain a junk yard or junk shop within the village
unless such business is carried on entirely inside a building or buildings, or
unless the premises on which such business is conducted is entirely closed in,
except for gates, by a solid or closed board fence not less than six feet in
height. If painted, said fence shall be painted one solid color, and said fence
shall be maintained in good solid and sightly condition at all times.
   (B)   Gates for access to said premises shall swing inward and such gate
shall be closed when the premises are not open for business, and such gates
shall be of solid board construction not less than six feet high and match the
fence.
   (C)   Barbed wire may be installed on the tops of such fences on arms or
supports projecting over the private property side of the fence at least eight
feet above the adjacent grade.
   (D)   For a distance of at least 30 feet from the exterior of all buildings
and/or fences enclosing or housing such junk yard or junk shop or motor vehicle
dismantling yard, no grass, weeds, shrubbery or undergrowth shall be allowed to
grow to a height exceeding one foot.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06  DEALING IN SECOND HAND ARTICLES.
   Any person, corporation, member or members of a co-partnership or firm whose
business in whole or in part is that of purchasing, selling, exchanging or
receiving second hand articles of any kind, is hereby declared to be a second
hand dealer or junk dealer. This definition shall not apply to retail merchants
who repossess their own merchandise sold on a title-retaining contract or
chattle mortgage basis.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
§ 114.07  SALES OF SECOND HAND BEDDING AND CLOTHING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any second hand dealer or junk dealer to sell
or deliver or cause to be sold or delivered any bed mattress which is stained
or discolored, or the contents of which are musty, or to sell or deliver any
second hand clothing or bedding until the same has been thoroughly cleaned and
disinfected, or to sell or deliver any second hand linen until the same has
been laundered.
   (B)   The foregoing provisions shall apply only when such articles are sold
or delivered for consumption or use or re-sold at retail, and that such
provisions are inapplicable when such articles are to be sold or delivered for
re-processing.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08  BUSINESS HOURS.
   No person shall purchase any junk, as defined in §
114.01, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. nor on any Sunday.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09  SIGN; RECORDS.
   Such second hand dealer or junk dealer as defined in §
114.01, shall post in a conspicuous place in or upon his or her shop, store,
wagon, vehicle, barn or other place of business, a sign having his or her name
and occupation legibly inscribed thereon, and shall keep a separate book, open
to inspection by members of the state police force, County Sheriff’s office and
other public officers, in which shall be written in the English language at the
time of the purchase or exchange of such article a description thereof, the
name, description and residence of the person from whom the same was purchased
and received and the day and hour when such purchase or exchange was made. Each
entry shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with number one.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10  ARTICLES TO BE HELD FOR CERTAIN TIME; DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLES TO BE
PROVIDED TO VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Such articles purchased or exchanged, as provided herein, shall be
retained by the purchaser thereof for not less than eight days before disposing
of them, in an accessible place in the building where such articles are
purchased and received. A tag shall be attached to such article in some visible
and conspicuous place with a number written thereon to correspond with entry
number in such book. Such purchaser shall prepare and deliver on Monday of each
week to the Village Clerk, before 12:00 noon, a legible and correct copy,
written in the English language, from such book, containing a description of
each article purchased or received during the preceding week, the hour and day
when the purchase was made and the description of the person from whom it was
purchased. Such statement shall be verified by the affidavit of the person
subscribing his or her name thereto.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to iron, steel, old rags or waste paper.
Provided further, nothing herein contained shall make it necessary for the
purchaser to retain articles purchased from individuals, firms or corporations
having a fixed place of business in the village or elsewhere after such
articles shall have been reported to the Village Clerk as herein provided.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11  PURCHASES FROM CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No purchase or receipt of any articles shall be made from any person who is
at the time intoxicated or from any habitual drunkard or from any person known
by said junk dealer to be a thief or an associate of thieves or a receiver of
stolen property, or from any person whom he or she has reason to suspect or
from any minor under the age of 21 years without the consent of the parents of
such minor.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12  MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   All premises used as a junk yard or junk shop shall be kept and maintained
in a clean, sanitary and neat condition. The person operating a junk yard or
junk shop shall maintain the premises so used so that rats, vermin and fire
hazard are as far as practicable reduced to a minimum. No rubbish or portion or
parts of wrecked machines and other accumulations which are to be discarded by
such junk dealer shall be burned in such premises without the written consent
of the Village Marshal.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not exceeding $100, nor less than $10, or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court trying the offender.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-2-1953)
CHAPTER 115: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Registration
   
115.04   Rental requirements
   
115.05   Inspections
   
115.06   Safety equipment
 
   
115.99   Violation; revocation of permit
Cross-reference:
   Rental of dwelling units, see
Chapter 152
§ 115.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The village recognizes that one of our largest industries is tourism. 
The tourism market supports many different types of businesses including the
hospitality market, the restaurant/dining market, the shopping and retail
market as well as a host of others.  The village believes that the tourism
industry will continue to grow.
   (B)   The village recognizes that a major part of the tourism industry is
the short-term rental or vacation rental marketplace.  The short-term or
vacation rental marketplace within the village has grown exponentially in the
past five, ten, 15 and even 20 years and it will most likely continue to grow
as surrounding municipalities limit, restrict and eliminate the practice.
   (C)   The village needs to take action to ensure that the operation of
short-term rentals is done in a safe and controllable manner for the well-being
of all in the community. The intent of these regulations is not to restrict or
eliminate short-term rentals; rather the intent is to have safeguards in place
to protect the consumer as well as the property owner, surrounding neighbors
and emergency responders.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOCAL AGENT. An individual designated to oversee the short-term rental of a
rental unit in accordance with this chapter and to respond to calls from
renters, concerned citizens, and representatives of the village.  The local
agent must live or maintain a physical place of business within 45 miles of the
rental unit used for short-term rentals.  A property owner who meets these
criteria may be the local agent.
   OWNER. Shall mean the individual or entity who is the legal or equitable
titleholder and/or who controls the premises occupied by one or more rental
units.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any residential dwelling which is in whole or in part occupied
by one or more person(s) pursuant to an oral or written agreement for monetary
or any other consideration, but which persons are not acquiring an ownership
interest in the dwelling.  This shall include single family, two- family and
multiple-family dwellings, short-term rentals and rooming or boarding houses. A
RENTAL UNIT shall not include transient dwelling structures such as bed and
breakfasts, and shall not include dwellings that are occupied only by members
of the owner’s immediate family.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Shall mean the rental of any rental unit for a term of
less than one month, but does not include the use of transitional housing
operated by a nonprofit entity, group homes such as nursing homes and adult
foster care homes, hospitals, or housing provided by a substance abuse
rehabilitation clinic, mental health facility, or other health care related
clinic. Housing units owned by a business entity and made available on a
temporary basis to employees of that business entity or employees of a
contractor working for that business entity are not short-term rental units.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT PERMIT. A written document issued by the village
indicating that the rental unit identified thereon is then in compliance with
the housing and property maintenance code.  A short-term rental unit permit
shall be valid for one year from the date of the inspection that found the
rental unit in compliance, absent newly or later detected violations of the
housing and property maintenance code, this chapter or other applicable laws,
rules or regulations, or a revocation of the permit pursuant to this chapter
within that time, and the expiration date shall be shown on the permit.  A
permit shall be valid for one year from date of issuance unless terminated due
to a violation and shall be renewed annually.
   TENANT. Shall mean any person, other than a legal or equitable titleholder,
occupying or possessing all or any part of a rental unit.
   VILLAGE. Shall mean the department, officer or individual designated by the
Village Manager or Village Council to administer all or any part of the
registration and inspection programs under this chapter.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.03  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of a short-term rental unit shall register it with the
village within ten days after the date of acquiring ownership or control of a
previously registered short-term rental unit, or in the case of a newly
constructed or converted short-term rental unit, before that short-term rental
unit is occupied.
   (B)   To register a short-term rental unit, the owner shall:
      (1)   Truthfully provide and certify as true the following information on
a form provided by the village:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone numbers of the owner and any agent
for the owner;
         (b)   The street address of the short-term rental unit, along with
other identification if more than one short-term rental unit has the same
street address;
         (c)   The number of short-term rental units in the building, if more
than one;
         (d)   The number of bedrooms in each short-term rental unit, and the
intended number of occupants in each short-term rental unit;
         (e)   A scaled floor plan;
         (f)   A copy of the lease form containing the required disclosures
including, but not limited to, the maximum occupancy load, off-street parking
requirements, the local landline telephone number of the unit, noise
regulations and other ordinance requirements;
         (g)   A statement in the application form detailing:
            1.   The term of the rental (daily, weekend, weekly, etc.);
            2.   The name, address, telephone number(s) (local and cell phone),
electronic mail address and other contact information of the designated local
rental agent, and written authorization for that agent to act on the owner's
behalf, including, without limitation, acceptance of service of legal papers on
the owner's behalf, and the agent's written acceptance of that agency;
            3.   The maximum occupancy load; and
            4.   Proof that the homestead exemption is legally appropriate or
is not being claimed.
         (h)   A statement certifying that each bedroom has a working smoke
alarm, that there is a working carbon monoxide detector on each floor, and that
the owner or local agent will check those devices at least every 90 days;
         (i)   A statement certifying that each kitchen has a working fire
extinguisher and that a working fire extinguisher is located near each outdoor
cooking device;
         (j)   A statement certifying that the property owner consents to
inspections by the village and will make the dwelling unit available to
inspections upon request; and
         (k)   Such other information as the village requests.
      (2)   Pay an administrative fee, as set by resolution of the Village
Council.
   (C)   An owner shall notify the village in writing within 30 days of any
change in the information provided on the registration form. An owner of a
short-term rental unit shall notify the village in writing within ten days of
any change in the designated local agent.
   (D)   An owner shall notify the village in writing within 30 days if any of
the items inspected pursuant to this chapter are altered after inspection by
the village.
   (E)   No registration under this section will be accepted or processed for a
property if an owner has been issued a civil infraction citation for a
violation of this chapter regarding that property, pending final adjudication
of that citation.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.04  RENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No short-term rental unit may be occupied or advertised for rent
unless the village has issued a valid short-term rental unit permit pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   A short-term rental unit permit shall be granted only when all of the
requirements in this chapter for short-term rental units and applications for a
short-term rental unit permit are met.
   (C)   Permit contents and requirements.
      (1)   Each short-term rental unit permit shall indicate the maximum
occupancy load.  No owner, local agent, or tenant shall allow a rental unit to
be occupied by more tenants than the number stated on the permit. The maximum
occupancy load shall be stated in the lease and other rental documents.
      (2)   No rental unit permit shall be valid until the appropriate fee is
paid, in the amounts as established from time to time by resolution of the
Village Council.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued to any owner unless that owner is current
on the payment of all real property taxes, utility rates, fees, charges,
special assessments and other amounts due the village. Delinquencies on any
such payments to the village, regardless of whether they relate to the rental
unit for which a rental unit permit is sought shall result in denial of the
permit.
   (D)   Upon request by any tenant or prospective tenant, the owner or agent
shall provide the tenant or prospective tenant with a copy of the short-term
rental unit permit, as well as a copy of the lease containing the required
disclosures.
   (E)   A valid short-term rental unit permit may be transferred to a new
owner of a short-term rental unit upon the village’s prior written consent once
the new owner files an application meeting all the requirements of this
chapter.
   (F)   Compliance with applicable zoning, construction, building and property
maintenance codes shall be a condition of all rental unit permits.  Violations
of any of those codes shall also be a violation of this chapter.
   (G)   If the owner of a short-term rental unit does not qualify as a local
agent, the owner shall designate a local agent and authorize the agent in
writing to act as the owner’s agent for any acts required of the owner or the
owner’s agent under this chapter.
   (H)   Each short-term rental unit shall have a landline telephone with free
local calls, which will appear at the 911 dispatch center.  The owner of each
short-term rental unit must prominently display in the unit a notice indicating
the unit’s street address, municipality, and other such descriptive information
which, if relayed to the 911 dispatch center, would allow emergency responders
to quickly locate and enter the rental unit, and further recommending that
tenants who use communication devices that may be used to summon aid in an
emergency, register those devices to the rental unit’s location, if
appropriate.
   (I)   Each short-term rental unit must have a minimum of one off-street
parking space for each occupant’s vehicle in addition to any other spaces
required under applicable laws, rules and regulations for any other uses in the
building or on the premises.
   (J)   The owner of each short-term rental unit must prominently display a
full-sized copy of the short-term rental unit permit in each short-term rental
unit.
   (K)   No more than four occupants per bedroom shall be included in the
calculation of the maximum occupancy load of a short-term rental unit,
regardless of the size of the bedroom.
   (L)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall not advertise an
occupancy load that is greater than the maximum occupancy load limit.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before issuing a short-term rental unit permit, the village shall
inspect the short-term rental unit in order to determine whether it is in
compliance with the housing and property maintenance code, the fire code, this
chapter, and other applicable laws and regulations.  The owner shall pay
administrative fees as set by resolution of the Village Council.
   (B)   Upon written notice from the village, it shall be the owner’s
responsibility to schedule and allow the village’s inspection of the short-term
rental unit.  When an inspection is required for the renewal of an existing
permit, the owner shall schedule and permit that inspection no later than 30
days before the expiration of that permit.  Inspections shall occur during the
village’s regular business hours, unless the village agrees to other
arrangements, and all fees shall be paid prior to the inspection.
   (C)   If an inspection reveals that the short-term rental unit is not in
compliance with the housing and property maintenance code, the owner shall be
provided a written list of deficiencies or violations that must be corrected
before a permit is issued.
   (D)   The village may conduct additional inspections as it deems necessary,
upon reasonable notice to the owner or agent, such as:
      (1)   When a complaint is filed with the village; or
      (2)   The village otherwise has reasonable cause to believe a rental unit
is in violation of any village ordinance.
   (E)   For short-term rental units, between each short-term rental to a
different tenant, the local rental agent shall inspect the premises using a
village designated checklist and shall ensure that all smoke detectors, carbon
monoxide detectors, lights in common areas and stairways, egress doors, and
railings are in a safe and working condition; any defects discovered shall be
corrected promptly.  Upon inspection, the agent shall sign and date that
checklist and shall maintain it for village inspection and copying for a period
of at least two years.
   (F)   If the village becomes aware of code or other deficiencies or
violations subsequent to the issuance of a permit, the village may revoke the
current permit and may also take any other action allowed by law.
   (G)   Before renewing a short-term rental unit permit, the village shall
inspect the short-term rental unit in order to determine whether it remains in
compliance with the housing and property maintenance code, the fire code, this
chapter, and other applicable laws and regulations. The owner shall pay
administrative fees as set by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)
§ 115.06  SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall be responsible for the
installation of smoke detectors/alarms in each rental unit. All smoke
detectors/alarms shall be UL (Underwriters Laboratories, Inc.) approved, and
shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the Michigan
Residential Code and the household fire warning equipment provisions of the
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards § 72.
   (B)   Smoke detectors/alarms shall be installed in the following locations:
      (1)   In each sleeping room;
      (2)   Outside of each separate sleeping area in the immediate vicinity of
the bedrooms; and
      (3)   On each additional story of the rental unit, including basements
and cellars, but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In rental
units with split levels and without an intervening door between the adjacent
levels, a smoke detector/alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level, provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
   (C)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall be responsible for the
installation of a carbon monoxide detector in each rental unit.  All carbon
monoxide detectors shall be of the type described in M.C.L.A. § 125.1504d.
   (D)   The owner of each short-term rental unit shall be responsible for the
installation of a fire extinguisher in the kitchen of each unit and near each
outdoor cooking device.
   (E)   No person shall tamper or interfere with the effectiveness of a smoke
detector, carbon monoxide detector or fire extinguisher required by this
section.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99  VIOLATION; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Violations as municipal civil infractions. Any person who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 or more
than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses
shall be subject to an increased civil fine as follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
this chapter:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any three month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
   (B)   Revocation of registration.
      (1)   Offenses warranting revocation. The village may revoke the short-
term rental permit for any short-term rental which is the site of at least
three separate incidents (occurring on three separate days) within a calendar
year resulting in a plea of responsibility (with or without an explanation), a
plea of guilty, a plea of no contest, or a court's determination of
responsibility or guilt by the owner, local agent, or any renter for a
violation of one or more of the following:
         (a)   Any provision of this chapter;
         (b)   The village noise and nuisance ordinance;
         (c)   Any violation of the zoning ordinance or any permit or approval
issued pursuant to the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Revocation procedure. Upon a determination by the village that the
short-term rental permit is subject to revocation pursuant to division (B)(1),
the village shall issue a notice to the property owner and the local agent
stating that the village intends to revoke the short-term rental permit. The
notice shall inform the owner and local agent of a right to a hearing to show
cause as to why the short-term rental permit should not be revoked, if a
hearing is requested within 14 days of the service of the notice. If a hearing
is timely requested, the village shall schedule the hearing before the Village
Manager and notify the owner and local agent in writing of a time and place for
that hearing. At the hearing, the owner and local agent may present evidence
that the requirements for revocation provided in division (B)(1) are not
satisfied, or that the property owner and local agent should not be held
responsible for one or more of the three requisite violations due to
extenuating circumstances. Extenuating circumstances may include circumstances
such as:
         (a)   The violation was committed by a non-renter and the renter(s)
attempted to prevent or halt the violation;
         (b)   The violation resulted from an act of God; or
         (c)   Other circumstances that the owner or the owner's agent could
not reasonably anticipate and prevent, and could not reasonably control.
      (3)   Revocation period and effect. Upon revocation of registration, a
dwelling unit cannot be re-registered for a period of one year, and cannot be
used for short-term rentals until re-registered.
   (C)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed in
any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an injunction,
restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 210, passed 6-14-2017; Ord. 215, passed 12-12-2018)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Definitions
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.15   Public nudity
   
130.16   Obstruction of public place
   
130.17   Littering
   
130.18   Creating nuisance by use of noise producing device
   
130.19   Occupying motor vehicle with open container of alcohol
   
130.20   Drinking alcoholic beverages in public places; public intoxication
   
130.21   Disturbing the peace
   
130.22   Assault and battery
   
130.23   Disturbance of religious or other lawful assemblage
   
130.24   Public use of profane language
Offenses Involving Minors
   
130.35   Curfew for minors
   
130.36   Furnishing minors with alcohol; minors possessing alcohol
   
130.37   Parental responsibilities as to minors
Marihuana Regulations
   
130.45   Title
   
130.46   Definitions
   
130.47   No marihuana establishment
   
130.48   Violations and penalties
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Prohibition against children in a sexually oriented business, see §
110.41
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any park, alley, street, sidewalk or parking lot to which the
public, or any number of persons of the public has access to, or to which the
public is customarily invited or admitted.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Three Oaks, Berrien County, Michigan.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976)
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 130.15  PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Public nudity. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or engage
in any public nudity.
   (B)   Definition. As used in this section, PUBLIC NUDITY means knowingly or
intentionally displaying in a public place, or for payment or promise of
payment by any person including, but not limited to, payment or promise of
payment of an admission fee, any individual’s genitals or anus with less than a
full opaque covering, or a female individual’s breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of the nipple and areola. PUBLIC NUDITY shall not include any
of the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
      (2)   MATERIAL as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362; or
      (3)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT VISUAL MATERIAL as defined in Public Act 33 of
1978, § 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
   (C)   Other remedies. The remedies and penalties provided in §
130.99 are in addition to all other rights and powers of the village to proceed
at law or equity with other and additional appropriate remedies.
(Ord. 140, passed 6-13-2001)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person, after having been first requested or ordered by a law enforcement
officer or any other person in charge of a public place to move or pass on,
shall stand, sit, assemble, loiter or congregate in or on any park, public
street, alley, parking lot, way, sidewalk or public place in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of persons who are lawfully passing along such public
place or in such manner as may tend to cause or result in a public disturbance.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17  LITTERING.
   No person knowingly, without the consent of the public authority having
supervision of public property or the owners of private property, shall dump,
deposit, place, throw or leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing,
placing, throwing or leaving of litter on any public place, as herein defined,
or upon private property or waters other than property designated and set aside
for such purposes. The term LITTER as used herein shall mean all rubbish,
refuse, waste, material, garbage, paper, glass, cans, bottles, trash, debris or
other foreign substances of every kind and description.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18  CREATING NUISANCE BY USE OF NOISE PRODUCING DEVICE.
   (A)   The operating or maintaining of noise making, noise amplifying or
noise producing instruments or devices by which the peace or good order of the
village is unreasonably disturbed is hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   No person, firm, association or corporation by himself or herself or
another shall use, operate, play or permit the use, operation or playing of any
machine, sound production or reproduction device, radio, musical instrument,
drums, compact disc player, phonograph, television set, loud speakers, sound
amplifiers or any other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., from Sunday evening
through Friday morning, and between 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., from Friday
evening through Sunday morning and on those evenings preceding legal holidays,
as provided by law, in such manner as to be plainly audible, the same being
louder than normal conversational tone, at a distance of 50 feet or more from
its point of origin.
   (C)   This provision shall not apply to any participant in parades, band
concerts, lawful fireworks displays, memorial salutes or any other event or
activity which has been authorized by the village or is otherwise specifically
authorized by law.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976; Ord. 149, passed 5-19-2004)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19  OCCUPYING MOTOR VEHICLE WITH OPEN CONTAINER OF ALCOHOL.
   No person shall knowingly occupy a motor vehicle in or upon any public
highway, street, alley, parking lot or park in the village in which there is
found open or unsealed containers of alcoholic beverages in the passenger
compartment thereof.
(Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20  DRINKING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES; PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   No person shall drink any intoxicating liquor or alcoholic beverage in
or upon any park, public highway, street, alley, sidewalk or parking lot in the
village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to become drunk or intoxicated in
any of the streets or public places within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 7, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, or incite others to engage
in, any affray, riot, disturbance, disorderly assemblage or mob or in any way
disturb the public peace within the corporate limits of said village.
(Ord. 2, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22  ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, beat or wound any other
person or persons within the corporate limits of said village.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23  DISTURBANCE OF RELIGIOUS OR OTHER LAWFUL ASSEMBLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully disturb any religious or
other lawful assemblage or meeting held within the corporate limits of said
village.
(Ord. 4, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24  PUBLIC USE OF PROFANE LANGUAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any vulgar or indecent language
in any of the streets or public places within the corporate limits of said
village.
(Ord. 6, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
130.99
OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
§ 130.35  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor, under the age of 18 years, to be
or remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places
in said village between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, unless such minor is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other
person having legal custody and control of such minor, or unless such minor is
engaged in the performance of a duty directed by such parent, guardian or
custodian, or is attending approved church, community or school activities.
   (B)   The Village Marshal and/or any other law enforcement official may take
into his or her custody any minor found by him or her violating the provisions
of this section and detain such minor until proper complaint can be made to the
Juvenile Court for the county. Provided, however, that no minor taken into
custody under the provisions of this section shall be placed in any jail or
locked up or shall be placed in any detention home without the order of the
Judge of the Juvenile Court for said county.
(Ord. 35, passed 10-3-1963)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36  FURNISHING MINORS WITH ALCOHOL; MINORS POSSESSING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully give, sell or furnish
any alcoholic beverage to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase or knowingly possess or transport any alcoholic liquor or knowingly
possess, transport or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle any
alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-4-1968)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.37  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES AS TO MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DELINQUENT ACTS.  Acts which violate the laws of the United States, or
the statutes of the state or the ordinances of the village or those acts which
would cause or tend to cause the minor to come under the jurisdiction of the
juvenile division of the Probate Court as defined by M.C.L.A. § 712A.2, but
does not include traffic violations.
      ILLEGAL DRUGS.  Controlled substances obtained without a legal
prescription.
      JUVENILE DELINQUENT.  Minors whose behavior interferes with the rights of
other or menaces the welfare of the community.
      MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18 years residing with a parent.
      PARENT.  Mother, father, legal guardian and any other person having the
care or custody of a minor or any person acting in the parents’ stead who has
custody or control of the minor.
   (B)   Parental duties.
      (1)   It is the continuous duty of the parent of any minor to exercise
reasonable control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act.
      (2)   Included (without limitation) in this continuous duty of reasonable
parental control are the following parental duties:
         (a)   To keep illegal drugs or illegal firearms out of the home and
legal firearms locked in places that are inaccessible to the minor;
         (b)   To know the curfew ordinance of the village (Ord. 35 - codified
herein as §
130.35) and to require the minor to observe the curfew ordinance;
         (c)   To require the minor to attend regular school sessions and to
forbid the minor to be absent from class without parental or school permission;
         (d)   To arrange proper supervision for the minor when the parent must
be absent;
         (e)   To take the necessary precautions to prevent the minor from
maliciously or willfully damaging or destroying any real, personal or mixed
property which belongs to the village, or is located in the village; and
         (f)   To forbid the minor from keeping stolen property, illegally
possessing firearms or illegal drugs, or associating with known juvenile
delinquents, and to seek help from appropriate governmental authorities or
private agencies in handling or controlling the minor, when necessary.
   (C)   Notification of parents; record of notification.
      (1)   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained for the commission of any
delinquent act within the village, the parent of the minor shall be immediately
notified by the village, advising the parent of such arrest or detention, the
reason therefor and the parent’s responsibility under this section.
      (2)   A record of such notifications shall be kept by the Police
Department.
   (D)   Parental violation. If a minor commits a delinquent act, the parent
shall be guilty of a violation of this section if it is proven that any act,
word or non-performance of parental duty by the parent encouraged, contributed
toward, caused or tended to cause the commission of the delinquent act by the
minor.
   (E)   Restitution. In addition to any civil penalty imposed pursuant to this
section, the court may order the parent to pay any restitution to a victim of
the minor’s conduct. The amount of the restitution ordered pursuant to this
section shall not exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
130.99
MARIHUANA REGULATIONS
§ 130.45  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Village of Three
Oaks Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments Subchapter.
(Ord. 216, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 130.46  DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 216, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 130.47  NO MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Village of Three Oaks hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments
within the boundaries of the village pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 216, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 130.48  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this subchapter or who causes allows or consents to any of the
same shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this subchapter. A
violation of this subchapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this subchapter is a municipal civil infraction, for
which the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the
rights of the village to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and
proper remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include
all expenses, direct and indirect, which the village incurs in connection with
the municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the village may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this subchapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the Police
Department of the village or by such other person(s) as designated by the
Village Council from time to time.
(Ord. 216, passed 12-12-2018)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
130.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment in the county jail up
to 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person indicated in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(c)
below is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction:
         (a)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall
violate any of the provisions of §§
130.16 through
130.21,
130.23 and
130.24;
         (b)   Any, parent, guardian or other person who assists, aids, allows,
permits or encourages any minor under the age of 18 years to violate the
provisions of §
130.35; and/or
         (c)   Any parent who violates the provisions of §
130.37, in addition to the other provisions of §
130.37.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
any of the sections listed in division (C)(1) above committed by a person
within any six-month period and for which the person admits responsibility or
is determined to be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of those sections continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person or persons, partnership or corporation who shall violate
the provisions of §
130.22 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor
more than $100, and the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment
in the discretion of the court.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates any provision of §
130.36 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not to exceed
$100 together with the cost of prosecution or by imprisonment for a period of
not to exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion
of the court.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 64, passed 12-2-1976; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-
1995; Ord. 125, passed 5-14-1997; Ord. 140, passed 6-13-2001)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
152.   RENTAL OF DWELLING UNITS
      
153.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
154.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes and Enforcement
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted by reference; enforcing agency
   
150.02   State Electrical Code adopted by reference; enforcing agency
   
150.03   National Electrical Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   State Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.05   International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference;
revisions
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.20   Title
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Prohibition of dangerous buildings
   
150.23   Notice of dangerous buildings; hearing
   
150.24   Dangerous building hearing officer
   
150.25   Enforcement hearing before the Village Council
   
150.26   Implementation and enforcement of remedies
   
150.27   Appeal of Village Council decision
Other Uses of Lots
   
150.40   Division of lots in recorded plats
   
150.41   Prohibiting maintenance of trailer camp
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STANDARD CODES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.01  STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; ENFORCING AGENCY.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction
Code Act of 1972 (Public Act 230 of 1972,  being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.;
M.S.A. § 5.2949(1) et seq.), the State Building Code as promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein. All future
additions, deletions, amendments or other changes contained in subsequent
additions and supplements of the State Building Code, promulgated by the State
Construction Code Commission are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as though fully set forth in this section.
   (B)   Enforcing agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the State
Construction Code, in accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 8b(6), as
amended, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6), the village hereby elects to administer
and enforce Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, as amended, and the State Plumbing Code. The village shall also
administer and enforce the respective provisions of the State Residential Code,
State Uniform Energy Code, and State Rehabilitation Code and all applicable
laws and ordinances. A government official registered in accordance with Public
Act 54 of 1986, being M.C.L.A. §§ 338.2301 et seq., shall be appointed to
receive all fees, issue permits, plan reviews, notices orders and certificates
of use and occupancy. All personnel performing plan reviews and inspections
shall be registered in accordance with Public Act 54 of 1986, being M.C.L.A. §§
338.2301 et seq.
   (C)   Board of Appeals. In order to provide for reasonable interpretations
of the provisions of the Building Code there shall be and is hereby created
pursuant to § 14 of the State Construction Code Act of 1972, as amended,  a
Construction Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the village is
hereby constituted the Construction Board of Appeals under the State Building
Code. The Building Inspector shall be an ex officio member and shall act as
Secretary of the Board. The Board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations
for conducting its investigations and shall render all decisions and findings
in writing to the Building Inspector with a duplicate copy to the appellant.
   (D)   Public inspection and distribution of Building Code. Printed copies of
the State Building Code are available in the Village Clerk’s office for
inspection and use by the public. Copies of the State Building Code are also
available for distribution to the public at cost.
(Ord. 94, passed 1-13-1988; Ord. 193, passed 6-8-2011)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  STATE ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; ENFORCING AGENCY.
   (A)   Code adopted. Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction
Code Act of 1972 (Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.; 
M.S.A. § 5.2949(1)  et seq.), the State Electrical Code as promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein. All future
additions, deletions, amendments or other changes contained in subsequent
additions and supplements of the State Electrical Code, promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as though fully set forth in this section.
   (B)   Agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the State Electrical
Code,  in accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, as amended, the Village Electrical Inspector is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibilities of the
village under the aforementioned Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended. The
village assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said
Act throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   Public inspection and distribution of code. Printed copies of the
State Electrical Code are available in the Village Clerk’s office for
inspection and use by the public. Copies of the State Electrical Code are also
available for distribution to the public at cost.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-10-1988)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Electrical installations and materials shall conform to the requirements of
the National Electrical Code, 1962 Edition, approved July 24, 1962, by American
Standards Association, Inc. The National Electrical Code, 1962 Edition, as
promulgated and published by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, New York
City, New York, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the
same as if set forth in full herein. The code is adopted by the village for the
purpose of regulating the installation, alteration, repair, conversion, use and
maintenance of all new electric wiring for light, heat and power service
equipment, for radio and television receiving systems and all alterations or
extensions to existing wiring systems in buildings and structures. Complete
printed copies of the National Electrical Code, herein adopted, are available
for public use and inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 33, passed - -1963; Ord. 61, passed 10-21-1974; Ord. 94, passed 1-13-
1988)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  STATE PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The installation of all interior plumbing work shall comply with
Articles I to XI, inclusive of the State Plumbing Code, which is hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full
herein.
   (B)   Within each living unit, there shall be provided the following
plumbing fixtures:
      (1)   A kitchen sink properly located to facilitate food preparation and
dishwashing;
      (2)   A water closet properly vented, located either in the bathroom or
in a separate toilet compartment; and
      (3)   A bathtub or shower located in a bathroom or other equivalently
vented space.
   (C)   Each of the plumbing fixtures shall be permanently installed and
connected to the plumbing and water system.
(Ord. 33, passed  - -1963; Ord. 61, passed 10-21-1974; Ord. 94, passed 1-13-
1988)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE;
REVISIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of § 4 of Chapter V of The General Law
Village Act (Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq.) the
International Property Maintenance Code as published by the International Code
Council, Inc., is hereby adopted by reference, for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Three Oaks;
      (2)   Section 103.6. Insert: As set from time to time by resolution of
the Three Oaks Village Council;
      (3)   Section 303.14. Insert: June 1 to September 1;
      (4)   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1 to April 1; and
      (5)   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1 to April 1.
   (C)   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code
are hereby amended or deleted as set forth in additional sections as set forth
herein. The following section numbers refer to like numbers of sections of the
International Property Maintenance Code.
      (1)   Section 106.3 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
amended to read:
         Section 106.3 Prosecution of Violation and Penalties. Any person who
violates any of the provisions of this Ordinance, or fails to comply with a
notice of violation or order served in accordance with Section 107, in addition
to the other provisions of this Ordinance, is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than Fifty ($50.00)
Dollars or more than Five Hundred ($500.00) Dollars, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to an
increased civil fine as follows:
         (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than Two Hundred Fifty ($250.00) Dollars, plus costs and other
sanctions.
         (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than Five Hundred ($500.00)
Dollars, plus costs and other sanctions.
      A repeat offense means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
Ordinance (I) committed by a person within any six (6) month period and (ii)
for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
      Each day on which any violation of this Ordinance continues constitutes a
separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
      (2)   Section 106.4 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
amended to read:
         Section 106.4 Abatement of violation.  The imposition of the penalties
herein prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
      (3)   Section 106.5 of the International Property Maintenance Code is
hereby deleted.
(Ord. 137, passed 9-13-2000)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.20  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Dangerous Buildings
Subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 150.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  Any building or structure, residential or otherwise,
that has one or more of the following defects or is in one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   A door,  aisle, passageway,  stairway or other means of exit that
does not conform to the Village Fire Code or Village Building Code;
      (2)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe
and does not meet the minimum requirements of the Housing Law of the State,
Public Act 167 of 1917, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended, or the Village
Building Code for a new building or structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse and injure persons or damage property;
      (4)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure
have materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by the Housing Law of the State, Public Act 167 of 1917,  being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended, or the Village Building Code;
      (5)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way;
      (6)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (7)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood, or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a harbor
for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful or immoral act;
      (8)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or
unfit for human habitation, is in a condition that the Health Officer of the
village or county determines is likely to cause sickness or disease, or is
likely to injure the health, safety or general welfare of people living in the
dwelling;
      (9)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers; or
      (10)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Article 25 of the
Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2501 et seq.,
or is not publicly offered for sale by the owner. This division (10) does not
apply to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies the Police Department that the building or structure
will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days. The notice shall
be given by the owner or agent not more than 30 days after the building or
structure becomes unoccupied; and
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with this subchapter and the Housing Law of the
State, Public Act 167 of 1917, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 et seq., as amended,
or the Village Building Code; or
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies the Police
Department that the dwelling will remain unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or more each year.  An owner who has given the notice
prescribed by this division (10)(b) shall notify the Police Department not more
than 30 days after the dwelling no longer qualifies for this exception. As used
in this division (b), SECONDARY DWELLING means a dwelling such as a vacation
home or summer home, that is occupied by the owner or a member of the owner’s
family during part of year.
   ENFORCING AGENCY.  This village, through the Village Building Official and/
or such other official(s) or agency as may be designated by the Village Council
to enforce this subchapter.
   VILLAGE BUILDING CODE.  The building code administered and enforced in the
village pursuant to the State Construction Code Commission Act, Public Act 230
of 1972,being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)
§ 150.22  PROHIBITION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or part thereof which is a dangerous building as defined in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.23  NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS; HEARING.
   (A)   Notice requirement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter, if a building or structure is found to be a dangerous building, the
enforcing agency shall issue a notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building.
   (B)   Parties entitled to notice. The notice shall be served on each owner
of or party in interest in the building or structure in whose name the property
appears on the last local tax assessment records of the village.
   (C)   Contents of notice. The notice shall specify the time and place of a
hearing on whether the building or structure is a dangerous building and state
that the person to whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity at
the hearing to show cause why the Hearing Officer should not order the building
or structure to be demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained.
   (D)   Service of notice. The notice shall be in writing and shall be served
upon the person to whom the notice is directed either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records. If a notice is served upon a
person by certified mail, a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a
conspicuous part of the building or structure. The notice shall be served upon
the owner or party in interest at least ten days before the date of the hearing
included in the notice.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.24  DANGEROUS BUILDING HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment of Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed
by the Village President to serve at his or her pleasure. The Hearing Officer
shall be a person who has expertise in housing matters, including, but not
limited to, an engineer, architect, building contractor, building inspector or
member of a community housing organization. An employee of the enforcing agency
shall not be appointed as a Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Filing dangerous building notice with Hearing Officer. The enforcing
agency shall file a copy of the notice of the dangerous condition of any
building with the Hearing Officer.
   (C)   Hearing testimony and decision. At a hearing prescribed by this
subchapter, the Hearing Officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency,
the owner of the property, and any interested party. Not more than five days
after completion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall render a decision
either closing the proceedings or ordering the building or structure
demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (D)   Compliance with Hearing Officer order. If the Hearing Officer
determines that the building or structure should be demolished, otherwise made
safe, or properly maintained, the Hearing Officer shall so order, fixing a time
in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply with the order. If the
building is a dangerous building under §
150.21 of this subchapter, the order may require the owner or agent to maintain
the exterior of the building and adjoining grounds owned by the owner of the
building including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees and
shrubs.
   (E)   Noncompliance with Hearing Officer order/request to enforce order. If
the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses to comply
with the order issued under division (D) above, the Hearing Officer shall file
a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Village Council not
more than five days after noncompliance by the owner and request that necessary
action be taken to enforce the order. A copy of the findings and order of the
Hearing Officer shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner
prescribed in §
150.23(D).
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25  ENFORCEMENT HEARING BEFORE THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Village Council shall fix a date not less than 30 days after the hearing
prescribed in §
150.24(C) of this subchapter for a hearing on the findings and order of the
Hearing Officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent or lessee in the
manner prescribed in §
150.23(D) of this subchapter of the time and place of the hearing. At the
hearing, the owner, agent or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show
cause why the order should not be enforced. The Village Council shall either
approve, disapprove or modify the order. If the Village Council approves or
modifies the order, the Village Council shall take all necessary action to
enforce the order. If the order is approved or modified, the owner, agent or
lessee shall comply with the order within 60 days after the date of the hearing
under this section. In the case of an order of demolition, if the Village
Council determines that the building or structure has been substantially
destroyed by fire, wind, flood or other natural disaster and the cost of repair
of the building or structure will be greater than the state equalized value of
the building or structure, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply with the
order of demolition within 21 days after the date of the hearing under this
section.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26  IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REMEDIES.
   (A)   Implementation of order by village. In the event of the failure or
refusal of the owner or party in interest to comply with the decision of the
Village Council, it may, in its discretion, contract for the demolition, making
safe or maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds
adjoining the building or structure.
   (B)   Reimbursement of costs. The costs of the demolition, of making the
building safe or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure, incurred by the village to bring
the property into conformance with this subchapter shall be reimbursed to the
village by the owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (C)   Notice of costs. The owner or party in interest in whose name the
property appears upon the last local tax assessment records shall be notified
by the Village Assessor of the amount of the costs of the demolition, of making
the building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure
or grounds adjoining the building or structure, by first class mail at the
address shown on the village records.
   (D)   Lien for unpaid costs. If the owner or party in interest fails to pay
the costs within 30 days after mailing by the Village Assessor of the notice of
the amount of the cost, in the case of a single-family dwelling or a two-family
dwelling, the village shall have a lien for the costs incurred by the village
to bring the property into conformance with this subchapter. The lien shall not
take effect until notice of the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by
law. A lien provided for in this division (D) does not have priority over
previously filed or recorded liens and encumbrances. The lien for the costs
shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for property tax
liens under the General Property Tax Act, Public Act 206 of 1893, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 et seq., as amended.
   (E)   Court judgment for unpaid costs. In addition to other remedies under
this subchapter, the village may bring an action against the owner of the
building or structure for the full cost of the demolition, of making the
building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure. In the case of a single-family
dwelling or a two-family dwelling, the village shall have a lien on the
property for the amount of a judgment obtained pursuant to this division (E).
The lien provided for in this division (E) shall not take effect until notice
of the lien is filed and recorded as provided for by law. The lien does not
have priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
   (F)   Enforcement of judgment. A judgment in an action brought pursuant to
division (E) above may be enforced against assets of the owner other than the
building or structure.
   (G)   Lien for judgment amount. In the case of a single-family dwelling or a
two-family dwelling, the village shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment
obtained pursuant to division (E) above against the owner’s interest in all
real property located in this state that is owned in whole or in part by the
owner of the building or structure against which the judgment is obtained. A
lien provided for in this division (G) does not take effect until notice of the
lien is filed or recorded as provided by law, and the lien does not have
priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27  APPEAL OF VILLAGE COUNCIL DECISION.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Village Council
under §
150.25 of this subchapter, may appeal the decision or order to the circuit
court by filing a petition for an order of superintending control within 21
days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-14-1997)
OTHER USES OF LOTS
§ 150.40  DIVISION OF LOTS IN RECORDED PLATS.
   (A)   The division of a lot, out lot or parcel of land in a recorded plat is
prohibited, unless approved following application to the Building Inspector or
some other village officer that may be designated to receive such applications
from time to time by the Village Council. The application shall state the
reason for the proposed division. No lot, out lot or parcel of land in a
recorded plat shall be divided into more than four parts and the resulting lots
shall not be less in area than permitted by any Village zoning ordinance,
building ordinance, or Public Act 288 of 1967, M.C.L.A. § 560.186 as amended,
being the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, whichever is the more restrictive.
No building permit shall be issued, or any building construction commenced,
unless the division has been approved by the Building Inspector or other
designated village officer.
   (B)   The division of a lot, out lot or parcel of land in a recorded plat
resulting in a smaller area than prescribed herein may be permitted after prior
approval of the Building Inspector or other designated village officer, for the
purposes of adding to existing building site or sites, or for any other use
that does not or is not likely to contravene any existing zoning ordinances,
building ordinance or state statutes and does not and would not result in
crowding, congestion or contribute unduly to problems of public health,
sanitation and general welfare. Any person whose application for the division
of any lot in a recorded plat is denied, shall have the right to appeal to the
Village Council or to any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The application for the division of any lot, out lot or parcel of land
in a recorded plat shall be in affidavit form and shall contain a drawing
showing the dimensions and the description of:
      (1)   The entire lot in question; and
      (2)   Each lot or part of a lot resulting from the proposed division.
   (D)   The approval by the Building Inspector or other designated village
officer of the division of any lot, out lot or parcel of land in any recorded
plat shall be contingent on an agreement in writing by the applicant that any
sales contract, deed or other documents presented for recording at the office
of the County Register of Deeds, shall be accompanied by a copy of the written
approval thereof by the village or its duly authorized representatives.
(Ord. 46, passed 10-2-1969)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41  PROHIBITING MAINTENANCE OF TRAILER CAMP.
   (A)   No person or persons, firm, corporation or partnership or combination
of same, shall operate, maintain or permit to be operated or maintained on
their land or on land under their control, any trailer camp within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section a TRAILER CAMP is hereby defined to
be a group of two or more automobile trailers located within 100 feet of each
other.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-3-1947)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person indicated in divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) below
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction:
         (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in
accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 23(3), being M.C.L.A. § 125.1523(3),
a violation by any person of §§ 23(1) or 23(2) of said Act; and
         (b)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of §§
150.20 through
150.27, or §
150.41.
      (2)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
      (3)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of
the sections indicated in divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above:
         (a)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
         (b)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
      (4)   Each day on which any violation of the sections referred to in
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) above continues constitutes a separate offense
and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate offense.
      (5)   In addition, the village specifically reserves the right to proceed
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with §
150.01.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-3-1947; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 123, passed 5-14-
1997; Ord. 193, passed 6-8-2011)
CHAPTER 151:  DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Description of district
   
151.02   Purpose of Authority
   
151.03   Authority defined
   
151.04   Termination of Authority
Governing Board
   
151.15   Establishment of Governing Board
   
151.16   Removal of Board member
   
151.17   Board rules and meetings
   
151.18   Employment of personnel by Board
   
151.19   Duties of Board
Financing, Taxation and other Provisions Concerning the Authority
   
151.30   Transfer of private property to Authority
   
151.31   Financing of Authority
   
151.32   Levying of ad valorem tax
   
151.33   Borrowing money; issuing revenue bonds
   
151.34   Tax increment financing plan
   
151.35   Disposition of tax increment
   
151.36   General obligation bonds
   
151.37   Contents of development plan
   
151.38   Public hearings on development plan
   
151.39   Conditions for approval of development plan
   
151.40   Relocation of persons
   
151.41   Budget
   
151.42   Historic sites
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  DESCRIPTION OF DISTRICT.
   A Downtown Development Authority is hereby created, pursuant to Public Act
197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, as amended, for the
following described district, being in the village:
   A part of Sections 2, 3, 10 and 11, Township 8 South, Range 20 West, Three
Oaks Township, also being a part of the Village of Three Oaks, Berrien County,
Michigan described as: Beginning at a point on the center line of US Highway 12
and the North line of Section 10, 900.1 feet West of the North quarter post of
Section 10; thence North T 40 feet East, 307 feet; thence North 29° 22' East
266.82 feet to the Southerly right-of-way line of the Amtrak Railroad; thence
Easterly, along said right-of-way line 2031 feet; thence North 149.7 feet, more
or less, to the Northerly line of said right-of-way; thence Easterly, along
said Northerly right-of-way line, 113.41 feet; thence North 00° 02' East 358.28
feet; thence South 89° 58' 19" East 397.71 feet; thence North 278.88 feet,
thence South 89° 18' East 156.78 feet; thence North, 124 feet, more or less, to
the North line of Chicago Street; thence East, along the North line of said
Chicago Street, 194.3 feet, more or less, to the West line of Featherbone
Avenue; thence North, along said West line, 140 feet; thence East 284 feet;
thence South 50 feet; thence East 166 feet to the center line of Elm Street;
thence continuing East 33 feet to the East line of said Elm Street; thence
South, along said East line, 82 feet to the North line of Sycamore Street;
thence East, along said North line 132 feet; thence South 330 feet to the North
line of Maple Street; thence East, along said North line, 528 feet; thence
South 227 feet; thence East 264 feet to the East line of Hickory Street; thence
South, along said East line, 208 feet to the center line of the Amtrak
Railroad; thence Westerly, along said center line 445.5 feet; thence south 446
feet to the South line of Linden Street; thence West, along said South line,
132 feet to the East line of Oak Street; thence South, along said East line,
330 feet to the South line of Ash Street; thence continuing South, along the
East line of Oak Street, 198 feet; thence West 379.5 feet to the center line of
Elm Street; thence continuing West 165 feet; thence South 49.5 feet; thence
West 132 feet; thence North 247.5 feet to the South line of Ash Street; thence
Northeast 66 feet, more or less, to the Southeast corner of Lot 1, Friedle’s
Addition; thence North, along said East line of said Friedle’s Addition, 330
feet to the South line of Linden Street; thence West, along said South line,
1003.5 feet to the East line of Memorial Drive; thence South, along said East
line, 330 feet to the South line of Ash Street; thence West along said South
line 18 feet; thence South 447.25 feet to the South line of Locust Street;
thence West, along said South line 1013 feet; thence South 200 feet; thence
West 297 feet to the North and South Quarter line of said Section 10; thence
North, on the North and South Quarter line of said Section, to a point 419.24
feet, more or less, to the center line of US Highway 12 and the North line of
Section 10; thence West, on the center line of US Highway 12 and the North line
of Section 10, to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE OF AUTHORITY.
   The Downtown Development Authority is hereby created to halt property value
deterioration and increase property tax valuation in the above district, to
eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.03  AUTHORITY DEFINED.
   The Authority shall be deemed an instrumentality of a political subdivision
for purposes of Public Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 213.321 through
213.332.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.04  TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.
   An Authority which has completed the purposes for which it was organized
shall be dissolved by ordinance of the Village Council. The property and assets
of the Authority remaining after the satisfaction of the obligations of the
Authority shall belong to the village.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
GOVERNING BOARD
§ 151.15  ESTABLISHMENT OF GOVERNING BOARD.
   The said Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board,
consisting of the President of the village and eight members appointed by the
said President; subject to the approval of the Village Council. A majority of
the members shall be persons having an interest in the property located in the
downtown district. One of the members shall be a resident of the district, if
the district is found to have 100 or more persons residing therein. Of the
first members appointed, as equal a number as practicable shall be appointed
for one year, two years, three years and four years. A member of the Board
shall hold office until the member’s successor is appointed. Thereafter, each
member of the Board shall serve for a term of four years. Members of the Board
shall serve without compensation, but they shall be reimbursed for actual and
necessary expenses. The Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010; Ord. 199, passed 12-12-2012)
§ 151.16  REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBER.
   A member of the Board may be removed for cause by the Village Council.
Before a member is removed the member shall be given written notice of the
cause or causes for removal and an opportunity to be heard before the Village
Council. The removal of a member is subject to review by the circuit court.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.17  BOARD RULES AND MEETINGS.
   The Board shall adopt rules consistent with Public Act 267 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, governing its procedure, the holding of
regular and special meetings subject to the approval of the Village Council.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.18  EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL BY BOARD.
   (A)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Director, subject
to the approval of the Village Council. The Director shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board. A member of the Board is not eligible to hold the
position of Director. Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the
Director shall take and subscribe to the constitutional oath, and furnish bond,
by posting a bond in the amount of $10,000, payable to the Authority, for the
use and benefit of the Authority, approved by the Board, and filed with the
Village Clerk. The premium on the bond shall be deemed an operating expense of
the Authority, payable from funds available to the Authority for expenses of
operation. The Director shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.
Subject to the approval of the Board, the Director shall supervise, and be
responsible for, the preparation of plans and the performance of the functions
of the Authority. The Director shall attend the meetings of the Board and shall
render to the Board and to the Village Council a regular report covering the
activities and financial condition of the Authority. If the Director is absent
or disabled, the Board may designate a qualified person as acting Director to
perform the duties of the office. Before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, the acting Director shall take and subscribe to the oath, and furnish
bond, as require of the Director. The Director shall furnish the Board with
information or reports governing the operation of the Authority as the Board
requires.
   (B)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Treasurer, who
shall keep the financial records of the Authority and who, together with the
Director, shall approve all vouchers for the expenditure of funds for the
Authority. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be delegated to
him or her by the Board and shall furnish bond in an amount as prescribed by
the Board.
   (C)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Secretary, who
shall maintain custody of the official seal of records, books, documents or
other papers not required to be maintained by the Treasurer. The Secretary
shall attend meetings of the Board and keep a record of its proceedings, and
shall perform such other duties delegated by the Board.
   (D)   The Board may retain Legal Counsel to advise the Board in the proper
performance of its duties. The Legal Counsel shall represent the Authority in
actions brought by or against the Authority.
   (E)   The Board may employ other personnel deemed necessary by the Board.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.19  DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board shall:
   (A)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the district;
   (B)   Study and analyze the impact of metropolitan growth upon the district;
   (C)   Plan and propose the construction, the renovation, repair, remodeling,
rehabilitation, restoration, preservation or reconstruction of a public
facility, an existing building, or a multiple-family dwelling unit which may be
necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan which, in the opinion of
the Board, aids in the economic growth of the district;
   (D)   Develop long-range plans, in cooperation with the agency which is
chiefly responsible for planning in the village, designed to halt the
deterioration of property values in the district and to promote the economic
growth of the district, and take such steps as may be necessary to persuade
property owners to implement the plans to the fullest extent possible;
   (E)   Implement any plan of development in the district necessary to achieve
the purposes of this chapter, in accordance with the powers of the Authority as
granted by this chapter;
   (F)   Make and enter into contracts necessary or incidental to the exercise
of its powers and the performance of its duties;
   (G)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and conditions and in a
manner the Authority deems proper to own, convey, or otherwise dispose of, or
lease as lessor or lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or rights
or interests therein, which the Authority determines is reasonably necessary to
achieve the purposes of this chapter, and to grant or acquire licenses,
easements and options with respect thereof;
   (H)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore and
preserve, equip, improve, maintain, repair and operate any building, including
multiple-family dwellings, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances
thereto, within the district for the use, in whole or in part, of any public or
private person or corporation, or a combination thereof;
   (I)   Fix, charge and collect fees, rents and charges for the use of any
building or property under its control or any part thereof, or facility
therein, and pledge the fees, rents and charges for the payment of revenue
bonds issued by the Authority;
   (J)   Lease any building or property under its control, or any part thereof;
   (K)   Accept grants and donations of property, labor or other things of
value from a public or private source; and
   (L)   Acquire and construct public facilities.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
FINANCING, TAXATION AND OTHER PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE AUTHORITY
§ 151.30  TRANSFER OF PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AUTHORITY.
   The village may take private property under Public Act 149 of 1911, M.C.L.A.
§§ 213.21 et seq., as amended, for the purpose of transfer to the Authority,
and may transfer the property to the Authority for use in an approved
development, on terms and conditions it deems appropriate, and the taking,
transfer and use shall be considered necessary for public purposes and for the
benefit of the public.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.31  FINANCING OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or more of
the following sources:
      (1)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions;
      (2)   Proceeds of a tax imposed pursuant to §
151.32;
      (3)   Money borrowed and to be paid as authorized by §
151.33;
      (4)   Revenues from any property, building or facility owned, leased,
licensed or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements;
      (5)   Proceeds of a tax increment financing plan, established under §§
151.34 through
151.36;
      (6)   Proceeds from a special assessment district created as provided by
law; and
      (7)   Money obtained from other sources approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   Money received by the Authority and not covered under division (A)
above shall immediately be deposited to the credit of the Authority, subject to
disbursement pursuant to this chapter. Except as provided in this chapter, the
village shall not obligate itself, nor shall it ever be obligated to pay any
sums from public funds, other than money received by the village pursuant to
this section, for or on account of the activities of the Authority.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.32  LEVYING OF AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   The Authority with the approval of the Village Council may levy an ad
valorem tax on the real and tangible personal property not exempt by law and as
finally equalized in the downtown district. The tax shall not be more than two
mills. The tax shall be collected by the village. The village shall collect the
tax at the same time and in the same manner as it collects its other ad valorem
taxes. The tax shall be paid to the Treasurer of the Authority, if one has been
appointed, and credited to the General Fund of the Authority for purposes of
the Authority.
   (B)   The village may, at the request of the Authority, borrow money and
issue its notes therefor in anticipation of collection of the ad valorem tax
authorized in this section.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.33  BORROWING MONEY; ISSUING REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   The Authority may borrow money and issue its negotiable revenue bonds
therefore pursuant to Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through
141.138, as amended. Revenue bonds issued by the Authority shall not, except as
hereinafter provided, be deemed a debt of the village or the state. The
village, by a majority vote of the members of the Village Council, may pledge
its full faith and credit to support the Authority’s revenue bonds.
   (B)   The Authority may, with approval of the Village Council, borrow money
and issue its revenue bonds or notes to finance all or part of the costs of
acquiring or constructing property in connection with the implementation of a
development plan in the downtown district or to refund or refund in advance
bonds or notes issued pursuant to this section. The costs which may be financed
by the issuance of revenue bonds or notes may include the cost of purchasing,
acquiring, constructing, improving, enlarging, extending or repairing property
in connection with the implementation of a development plan in the downtown
district; any engineering, architectural, legal, accounting or financial
expenses; the costs necessary or incidental to the borrowing of money; interest
on the bonds or notes during the period of construction; a reserve for payment
of principal and interest on the bonds or notes; and a reserve for operation
and maintenance until sufficient revenues have developed. The Authority may
secure the bonds and notes by mortgage, assignment or pledge of the property
and any money, revenues or income received in connection therewith.
   (C)   A pledge made by the Authority shall be valid and binding from the
time the pledge is made. The money or property pledged by the Authority
immediately shall be subject to the lien of the pledge without a physical
delivery, filing or further act. The lien of such a pledge shall be valid and
binding as against parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract or
otherwise, against the Authority, irrespective of whether the parties have
notice of the lien. Neither the resolution, the trust agreement nor any other
instrument by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded.
   (D)   The village shall not be liable on bonds or notes the Authority issued
pursuant to this section and the bonds or notes shall not be a debt of the
village. The bonds or notes shall contain on their face a statement to that
effect.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.34  TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   As used in this section and §§
151.35 and
151.36 the following definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE.  The amount in any one year, by which the
current assessed value of the project area, including the assessed value of the
property for which a commercial facilities exemption certificate has been
issued pursuant to Public Act 255 of 1978, M.C.L.A. §§ 207.651 et seq., as
amended, the assessed value of property for which an industrial facilities
exemption certificate has been issued pursuant to Public Act 198 of 1974,
M.C.L.A. §§ 207.551 et seq., as amended, and the assessed value of property for
which a commercial housing facilities exemption certificate has been issued
pursuant to Public Act 438 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 207.601 et seq., as amended,
exceeds the initial assessed value.
      INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE.  The most recently assessed value, as finally
equalized by the State Board of Equalization, of all the taxable property
within the boundaries of the development area at the time the ordinance
establishing the tax increment financing plan is approved. Property exempt from
taxation at the time of the determination of the initial assessed value shall
be included as zero. For the purpose of determining initial assessed value,
property for which a commercial facilities exemption certificate, an industrial
facilities exemption certificate or a commercial housing facilities exemption
certificate is in effect shall not be considered to be property which is exempt
from taxation.
   (B)   When the Authority determines that it is necessary for the achievement
of the purposes of this chapter, the Authority shall prepare and submit a tax
increment financing plan to the Village Council. The plan shall include a
development plan as provided in §
151.37, a detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure, the maximum
amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred, the duration of the program and
shall be in compliance with §
151.35. The plan shall contain a statement of the estimated impact of tax
increment financing on the assessed values of all taxing jurisdictions in which
the development area is located. The plan may be provided for the use of part
or all of the captured assessed value, but the portion intended to be used by
the Authority shall be clearly stated in the tax increment financing plan.
   (C)   Approval of the tax increment financing plan shall be in accordance
with the notice, hearing and disclosure provisions of §
151.38. When the development plan is part of the tax increment financing plan,
only one hearing and approval procedure is required for the two plans together.
   (D)   Before the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan, the
Village Council shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the members of the
County Board of Commissioners to meet with the Village Council. The Authority
shall fully inform members of the County Board of Commissioners of the fiscal
and economic implications of the proposed development area. The members of the
County Board of Commissioners may present their recommendations at the public
hearing on the tax increment financing plan. The Authority may enter into
agreements with the County Board of Commissioners and the governing body of the
village to share a portion of the captured assessed value of the district.
   (E)   A tax increment financing may be modified if the modification is
approved by the Village Council upon notice and after public hearings and
agreements as are required for approval of the original plan.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.35  DISPOSITION OF TAX INCREMENT.
   (A)   The amount of tax increment to be transmitted to the Authority by the
Village Treasurer and County Treasurer shall be that portion of the tax levy of
all taxing bodies paid each year on real and personal property in the project
area on the captured assessed value. For the purpose of this section, that
portion of a commercial facilities tax levied pursuant to Public Act 255 of
1978, § 12, M.C.L.A. § 207.662, that portion of an industrial facilities tax
levied after December 30, 1980 pursuant to Public Act 198 of 1974, § 11,
M.C.L.A. § 207.561, as amended, and that portion of a commercial housing
facilities tax levied after December 30, 1980 pursuant to Public Act 438 or
1976, § 6, M.C.L.A. § 207.606, amended, which is attributable to the captured
assessed value of the facility shall be included as a part of the tax increment
to be transmitted to the Authority.
   (B)   The Authority shall expend the tax increments received for the
development program only pursuant to the tax increment financing plan. Surplus
funds shall revert proportionately to the respective taxing bodies. These
revenues shall not be used to circumvent existing property tax limitations. The
Village Council may abolish the tax increment financing plan when it finds that
the purposes for which it was established are accomplished. However, the tax
increment financing plan shall not be abolished until the principle of, and
interest on, bonds issued pursuant to §
151.36 have been paid or funds sufficient to make the payment have been
segregated.
   (C)   Annually, the Authority shall submit to the Village Council a report
on the status of the tax increment financing account. The report shall include:
the amount and source of revenue in the account; the amount and purpose of
expenditures from the account; the amount of principle and interest in any
outstanding bonding indebtedness; the initial assessed value of the project
area; the captured assessed value retained by the Authority; the tax increments
received; and any additional information the Village Council considers
necessary. The report shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.36  GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS.
   (A)   The village may by resolution of its Village Council authorize, issue
and sell general obligation bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this
section to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan
or to refund bonds issued under this section and shall pledge its full faith
and credit for the payment of the bonds. The bonds shall mature in not more
than 30 years and shall be subject to the Municipal Financing Act, Public Act
202 of 1943, as amended. Before the village may authorize the borrowing, the
Authority shall submit an estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenue to
be available for payment of principle and interest on the bonds, to the Village
Council. This estimate shall be approved by the Village Council by resolution
adopted by a majority vote of the members of the Village Council in the
resolution authorizing the bonds. If the bonds are approved by the Department
of Treasury in those instances in which an exception to prior approval is not
available under Public Act 202 of 1943, Ch. III, § 11, or if the Village
Council adopts the resolution authorizing the bonds and prior approval of the
Department of Treasury is not required pursuant to Public Act 202 of 1943, Ch.
III, § 11, the estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenue to be
available for payment of principle and interest on the bonds shall be
conclusive for the purposes of this section. The village may not pledge for
annual debt service requirements in any one year in excess of 80% of the
estimated tax increment revenue to be received from the development area for
that year, and the total aggregate amount of borrowing shall not exceed an
amount which the 80% of the estimated tax increment will service as to annual
principle and interest requirements. The bonds issued under this section shall
be considered a single series for the purposes of Public Act 202 of 1943, as
amended.
   (B)   By resolution of its governing body, the Authority may authorize,
issue and sell tax increment bonds subject to the limitations set forth in this
section to finance the development program of the tax increment financing plan
or to refund bonds issued under this section. The tax increment bonds issued by
the Authority under this section shall pledge solely the tax increments of the
project for which the bonds are issued and any other revenues which the
Authority shall specifically pledge in the resolution and shall not pledge the
full faith and credit of either the Authority or the village. The bonds shall
mature in not more than 30 years and shall bear interest and be payable upon
the terms and conditions determined by the Authority in the resolution
approving the bonds and shall be sold at public or private sale by the
Authority. The bond issue may include a sum sufficient to pay interest on the
tax increment bonds until full development of tax increments from the project
and also a sum to provide a reasonable reserve for payment of principle and
interest on the bonds. The resolution authorizing the bonds shall create a lien
on the tax increments and other revenues pledged by the resolution which shall
be a statutory lien and shall be a first lien subject only to liens previously
created. The resolution may provide the terms upon which additional bonds may
be issued of equal standing and parity of lien as to the tax increments and
other revenues pledged pursuant to the resolution.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.37  CONTENTS OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   When the Board decides to finance a project in the downtown district
by the use of revenue bonds as authorized in §
151.33 or tax increment financing as authorized in §§
151.34 through
151.36, it shall prepare a development plan.
   (B)   The development plan shall contain:
      (1)   The designation of boundaries of the development area in relation
to highways, streets, streams or otherwise;
      (2)   The location and extent of existing streets and other public
facilities within the development area and shall designate the location,
character and extent of the categories of public and private land uses then
existing and proposed for the development area, including residential,
recreational, commercial, industrial, educational and other uses and shall
include a legal description of the development area;
      (3)   A description of existing improvements in the development area to
be demolished, repaired or altered, a description of any repairs and
alterations, and an estimate of the time required for completion;
      (4)   The location, extent, character and estimated cost of the
improvements including rehabilitation contemplated for the development area and
an estimate of the time required for completion;
      (5)   A statement of the construction or stages of construction planned,
and the estimated time of completion of each stage;
      (6)   A description of any parts of the development area to be left as
open space and the use contemplated for the space;
      (7)   A description of any portions of the development area which the
Authority desires to sell, donate, exchange or lease to or from the village and
the proposed terms;
      (8)   A description of desired zoning changes and changes in streets,
street levels, intersections and utilities;
      (9)   An estimate of the cost of the development, a statement of the
proposed method of financing the development and the ability of the Authority
to arrange the financing;
      (10)   Designation of the person or persons, natural or corporate, to
whom all or a portion of the development is to be leased, sold, or conveyed in
any manner and for whose benefit the project is being undertaken if that
information is available to the Authority;
      (11)   The procedures for bidding for the leasing, purchasing or
conveying in any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its
completion, if there is no express or implied agreement between the Authority
and persons, natural or corporate, that all or a portion of the development
will be leased, sold or conveyed in any manner to those persons;
      (12)   Estimates of the number of persons residing in the development
area and the number of families and individuals to be displaced. If occupied
residences are designated for acquisition and clearance by the Authority, a
development plan shall include a survey of the families and individuals to be
displaced, including their income and racial composition, a statistical
description of the housing supply in the community, including the number of
private and public units in existence or under construction, the condition of
those in existence, the number of owner-occupied and renter-occupied units, the
annual rate of turnover of the various types of housing and the range of rents
and sale prices, an estimate of the total demand for housing in the community
and the estimated capacity of private and public housing available to displaced
families and individuals;
      (13)   A plan for establishing priority for the relocation of persons
displaced by the development in any new housing in the development area;
      (14)   Provision for the costs of relocating persons displaced by the
development and financial assistance and reimbursement for expenses, including
litigation expenses and expenses incident to the transfer of title, in
accordance with the standards and provisions of the Federal Uniform Relocation
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, being Pub. L.
No. 91-646, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4601 et seq.;
      (15)   A plan for compliance with Public Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 213.321 through 213.332; and
      (16)   Other material which the Authority, local public agency or Village
Council deems pertinent.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.38  PUBLIC HEARINGS ON DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Council, before adoption of an ordinance approving a
development plan or tax increment financing plan, shall hold a public hearing
on the development plan. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
given by publication twice in a newspaper of general circulation designated by
the village, the first of which shall be not less than 20 days before the date
set for the hearing. Proof of publication shall be by affidavit of the
publisher, secured and made a part of said proceedings. Notice of the hearing
shall be posted in at least 20 conspicuous and public places in the downtown
district not less than 20 days before the hearing. Notice shall also be mailed
to all property taxpayers of record in the downtown district not less than 20
days before the hearing. The Village Clerk shall attest to proof of posting and
mailing by affidavit made a part of said proceedings.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of hearing on a development plan shall
contain: a description of the proposed development area in relation to
highways, streets, streams or otherwise; a statement that maps, plats and a
description of the development plan, including the method of relocating
families and individuals who may be displaced from the area, are available for
public inspection at a place designated in the notice, and that all aspects of
the development plan will be open for discussion at the public hearing; and
other information that the Village Council deems appropriate. At the time set
for the hearing, the Village Council shall provide an opportunity for
interested persons to be heard and shall receive and consider communications in
writing with reference thereto. The hearing shall provide the fullest
opportunity for expression of opinion, for argument on the merits, and for
introduction of documentary evidence pertinent to the development plan. The
Village Council shall make and preserve a record of the public hearing,
including all data presented thereat.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.39  CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Village Council after a public hearing on the development plan or
the tax increment financing plan, or both, with notice thereof given in
accordance with §
151.38, shall determine whether the development plan or tax increment financing
plan constitutes a public purpose.
   (B)   If it determines that the development plan or tax increment financing
plan constitutes a public purpose, it shall then approve or reject the plan, or
approve it with modification, by ordinance based on the following
considerations:
      (1)   The plan meets the requirements set forth in §
151.37(B);
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing;
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter;
      (4)   The land included within the development area to be acquired is
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and of this chapter
in an efficient and economically satisfactory manner;
      (5)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the Master Plan
of the village;
      (6)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities,
are or will be adequate to service the project area; and
      (7)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities are reasonably necessary for the project and for the village.
   (C)   Amendments to an approved development plan or tax increment plan must
be submitted by the Authority to the Village Council for approval or rejection.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.40  RELOCATION OF PERSONS.
   A person to be relocated under this chapter shall be given not less than 90
days’ written notice to vacate unless modified by court order for good cause.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.41  BUDGET.
   (A)   The Director of the Authority, if one has been appointed, or otherwise
the Board as a whole, shall prepare and submit for the approval of the Board a
budget for the operation of the Authority for the ensuing fiscal year. The
budget shall be prepared in a manner and contain the information required of
municipal departments. Before the budget may be adopted by the Board, it shall
be approved by the Village Council. Funds of the village shall not be included
in the budget of the Authority except those funds authorized in this ordinance
or by the Village Council.
   (B)   The Village Council may assess a reasonable pro rata share of the
funds for the cost of handling and auditing the funds against the funds of the
Authority, other than those committed, which cost shall be paid annually by the
Board pursuant to an appropriate item in its budget.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
§ 151.42  HISTORIC SITES.
   (A)   A public facility, building or structure which is determined by the
village to have significant historical interests shall be preserved in a manner
as deemed necessary by the village in accordance with laws relative to the
preservation of historical sites.
   (B)   The Authority shall refer all proposed changes to the exterior of
sites listed on the State Register of Historic Sites and the National Register
of Historic Places to the applicable Historic District Commission created under
Public Act 169 of 1970, M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 et seq., or the Secretary of State
for review.
(Ord. 187, passed 7-14-2010)
CHAPTER 152:  RENTAL OF DWELLING UNITS
Section
   
152.01   Scope
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Registration required
   
152.04   Registration forms
   
152.05   Certificate of compliance
   
152.06   Inspections and fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Short-term rentals, see
Chapter 115
§ 152.01  SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to any dwelling or part thereof which is occupied
by persons pursuant to any oral or written rental or lease agreement or other
valuable compensation. Such dwelling shall include, but is not limited to,
single-family dwellings, multiple-family dwellings, rooming houses, boarding
houses, and bed and breakfast facilities. This chapter also includes mobile
home inspections as provided for in Public Act 215 of 2009, being M.C.L.A. §
125.2307.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL/ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The official who is charged with
the administration and enforcement of this chapter or any duly authorized
representative.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued by the Village Building
Official/Zoning Administrator which certifies compliance with the provisions of
the ordinances of the village for rental dwellings.
   DWELLING. Any structure, building or other facility promised and/or leased
to a residential tenant or tenants for use as a home, residence or sleeping
unit. This definition includes, but without limitation, one and two family
DWELLINGS.
   OCCUPANT.  Includes all tenants, lessees and persons residing within a
rental dwelling or rental unit.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm, corporation or any other legal entity having a
legal or equitable interest in the premises.
   OWNER REPRESENTATIVE.  A person or representative of a corporation,
partnership, firm, joint venture, trust, association, organization or other
entity designated by the owner of the premises as responsible for operating
such property in compliance with all the provisions of the village ordinances.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.03  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All rental dwelling units are required to be registered pursuant to this
chapter and shall comply with the following:
   (A)   All existing rental property shall be registered within 90 days of the
effective date of this chapter and every three years thereafter re-registration
is required;
   (B)   All newly constructed rental dwelling units shall be registered prior
to any use or occupancy as a rental dwelling unit and every three years
thereafter re-registration is required;
   (C)   A change in ownership of a rental dwelling requires the new owner to
register within 30 days of the ownership change. An existing certificate of
compliance shall be transferred to the new owner and shall be valid until its
expiration; and
   (D)   All existing non-rental dwelling units, which are converted to rental
dwelling units, shall be registered prior to the date on which the property is
first occupied for rental purposes and every three years thereafter shall be
re-registered.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04  REGISTRATION FORMS.
   Applications for registration shall be made in such form as may be provided
in accordance with such instructions by the Building Official/Zoning
Administrator designated by the Village Manager and shall include the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner, no post office
box will be accepted unless accompanied by a physical address;
   (B)   The rental property owner may appoint a representative. The owner
representative’s name, address and phone number shall be included on the
registration form including a physical address;
   (C)   Upon registration, the Building Official/Zoning Administrator shall
inform applicants of the certificate of compliance requirements; and
   (D)   There shall be no registration fee.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.05  CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall lease or rent a rental dwelling unit, unless there is
a valid certificate of compliance issued in the name of the owner for the
specific rental dwelling unit. The certificate shall be issued after
registration and inspection by the Building Official/Zoning Administrator to
determine that each rental dwelling unit complies with the provisions of the
codes and ordinances and applicable state statutes.
   (B)   The Building Official/Zoning Administrator shall inspect the premises
before the certificate of compliance is issued. In the event the owner or
representative refuses to permit an inspection after 30 days’ notice of the
intent to inspect, the owner or representative shall not rent the property
without the certificate of compliance as required. If the owner, representative
or tenant refuse to permit a scheduled inspection, the Building Official/Zoning
Administrator may through the Village Attorney, seek a search warrant to
conduct the inspection.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06  INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Building Official/Zoning Administrator shall inspect rental
dwelling units on a three-year rotating basis from the date of issue pursuant
to this chapter or under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   After the initial registration of the rental unit;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a complaint from an owner, owner’s agent or
occupant that the premises are believed to be in violation of this chapter. If
the Building Official/Zoning Administrator determines that a complaint was
filed without a factual basis and such inspection is made on a complaint basis,
an inspection fee may be charged to the complainant;
      (3)   Upon receipt of a report or referral from the Police Department,
Fire Department or other public agency; or
      (4)   Upon evidence of an existing ordinance violation observed by the
Building Official/Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The fee for an inspection is $35 per unit per inspection and must be
paid in advance of an inspection. Following a successful inspection, a
certificate of compliance shall be issued.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction:
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
(Ord. 198, passed 5-9-2012)
CHAPTER 153:  SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
153.01   Application of regulations
   
153.02   Locations
   
153.03   Design and construction
   
153.04   Safety precautions
   
153.05   Unnecessary noise
   
153.06   Abatement of violations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All pools, permanent or portable, erected or constructed, used or intended
to be used for swimming, bathing or wading, either above or below ground level,
shall be constructed and maintained in conformity with the regulations and
requirements of this chapter, provided, however, these regulations and
requirements shall not apply to any pool less than 24 inches deep and/or having
a surface area of less than 144 square feet, or 12 feet in the largest
dimension.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02  LOCATIONS.
   Swimming pools shall not be erected in the front yard and shall not be
erected closer than five feet  to adjoining lot line except on corner lots
which shall require a 15-foot set-back off side street lot line.  No swimming
pool or appurtenance thereto shall be erected or constructed on any private or
public easement or within five feet from rear property lines and six feet from
building line of principal building on any lot.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   Swimming pools if installed below grade, shall be designed and constructed
to withstand the water pressure from within when full and to resist the
pressure of all external forces when the pool is empty.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04  SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   In the event that the yard space occupied by a swimming pool shall be
provided with lighting facilities to illuminate the area, then the electrical
switch shall be permanently located outside of the principal building. All such
lights shall be shielded to prevent illumination of other than property on
which the pool is located. There shall be no overhead electrical conductors
installed over or within ten feet of any swimming pool. All metal fences,
enclosures or railings near or adjacent to the swimming pool to which bathers
have access, which may become electrically alive as a result of contact with
broken overhead conductors or from any other cause, shall be effectively
grounded.
   (B)   Pumps, filters and other mechanical and electrical equipment shall be
enclosed in such a manner as to be accessible only to authorized persons and
not to bathers. Construction and drainage shall be such as to avoid the
entrance and accumulation of water in the vicinity of electrical equipment and
electrically operated equipment.
   (C)   Every swimming pool other than those pools above exempted shall be
completely surrounded by a wood or chain link fence not less than 48 inches in
height. Wooden fences shall be constructed of vertical boards not exceeding
eight inches in width and openings between such boards shall not be more than
two inches. A dwelling house or accessory building may be used as part of such
enclosure. All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device on the inside of the enclosure for
keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times except that the door of
any dwelling house which forms a part of such enclosure need not be so
equipped. Doors and gates shall be securely locked when premises are vacated
for any period in excess of 24 hours or when the pool is not attended by the
householder or his or her authorized attendant. Horizontally woven wood fences
are not considered acceptable for the purposes of keeping a pool inaccessible.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05  UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   There shall be no unnecessary loud noise such as might be made by musical
instruments, shouting, whistling, yelling, singing and the like, so as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any school, place of
worship, office, dwelling and/or any persons in the vicinity.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06  ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any part of this chapter shall be abated within ten days after
receiving notice thereof from the Health Officer or other duly appointed
representative of the village. Immediate abatement may be ordered by the
Village President and/or the village police officers in cases of extreme
necessity.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses shall be subject to an increased civil fine as
follows:
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $250, plus costs and other sanctions; and
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall not be less than $500 plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (C)   A REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) violation of this
chapter:
      (1)   Committed by a person within any six-month period; and
      (2)   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
(Ord. 30, passed - -1962; Ord. 119, passed 4-12-1995)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In accordance with the provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Act
110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as amended, the village establishes
comprehensive zoning regulations providing for the administration, enforcement
and amendment thereof. The complete text of these regulations is laid out in
Ordinance 211, passed June 14, 2017, and is hereby incorporated by reference as
though fully set out in its entirety, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 211, passed 6-14-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
25       6-23-1954   Granting a gas franchise to Michigan Gas and Electric
                     Company for a period of 30 years
78       9-3-1981    Granting a cable television franchise to Michiana
                     Cablevision Corporation for a period of 15 years
80       10-1-1981   Amending Ordinance 78, the cable television franchise
88       8-1-1985    Granting a gas franchise to Michigan Power Company for a
                     period of 30 years
96       8-10-1988   Granting an electric franchise to Indiana Michigan Power
                     Company for a period of 30 years
122      10-9-1996   Granting a cable television franchise to Michiana
                     Cablevision Corporation for a period of 15 years
208      1-13-2016   Granting a gas franchise to SEMCO Energy Gas Company for a
                     period of 30 years
218      6-12-2019   Granting an electric franchise to Indiana Michigan Power
                     Company for a period of 30 years.
                    
 
TABLE II:  REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
182      4-29-2009   Providing for the private sale of certain real property
                     known as Watkins Park by the village to the county
                    
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     The entire length, width and area of the street previously
106      1-8-1992    known as Bridge Street, is hereby vacated, discontinued
                     and abolished
                     The entire length, width and area of the street known as
116      6-9-1993    Chamberlain Street, adjoining Lots 159, 166, 167, 170 and
                     171, and the alley lying between Lots 165 through 172,
                     inclusive, are hereby vacated, discontinued and abolished
                    
 
TABLE IV:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
158  1-12-  Amending the zoning map so the following parcel of land is zoned C-1 Commercial
     2005   District: The north one-half of Lot 11, Ryther’s Addition to the village
     6-8-   Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
159  2005   PUD Planned Unit Development District: Part of the southwest quarter of the
            northwest quarter of Section 11, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
     9-14-  Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
162  2005   C-2 Central Business District: Lots 25 through 29, inclusive, and Lots 38
            through 41, inclusive, original plat of the village
            Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
     10-12- rezoned from R-1A Single-Family Residential District to PUD Planned Unit
163  2005   Development District: Commencing 165 feet west of the northeast corner of the
            southeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 3, Township 8 South,
            Range 20 West
     10-11- Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
167  2006   PUD Planned Unit Development: Part of the east half of the northeast quarter of
            Section 10, Township 8 South, Range 20 West
     5-9-   Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is zoned
168  2007   PUD Planned Unit Development: Part of the northwest quarter of Section 11,
            Township 8 South, Range 20 West
     10-10- Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
173  2007   rezoned as C-2 Central Business District: The south half of Lots 50 and 52,
            plat of part of the village
     10-10- Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
174  2007   rezoned C-1 Commercial District: Lot 1, Block 10, Sherwood’s Addition to the
            village
            Amending the zoning map so that the following described parcel of land is
181  3-11-  rezoned C-2 Central Business District: Part of Lots 7 and 8, Subdivision of the
     2009   east half of the southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 8 South, Range 20
            West
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites            Code Section
15.231 et seq.            32.01
15.261 et seq.            32.01
15.261 through 15.275     151.17
24.201 through 24.328     70.02,
                          71.24
48.801 to 48.813          32.02
                          31.02,
61.1 et seq.              31.03,
                          150.05
62.1                      31.02,
                          31.03
62.2                      31.01
65.8                      31.01
123.731 et seq.           51.20
125.31 et seq.            32.01
125.31 through 125.45     32.01
125.401 et seq.           150.21
125.581 et seq            32.01
                          150.01,
125.1501 et seq.          150.02,
                          150.21
125.1501 through 125.1531 150.01,
                          150.02
125.1504d                 115.06
125.1508b(6)              150.01
125.1523(3)               150.99
125.1651 through 125.1680 151.01
125.2307                  152.01
125.3101 et seq.          32.01
125.3801 et seq.          32.01
141.101 et seq.           51.21
                          51.20,
141.101 through 141.140   51.30,
                          151.33
141.121                   51.23,
                          52.10
141.421 to 141.440a       31.01
207.551 et seq.           151.34
207.561                   151.35
207.601 et seq.           151.34
207.606                   151.35
207.651 et seq.           151.34
207.662                   151.35
211.1 et seq.             150.26
213.21 et seq.            151.30
213.321 through 213.332   151.03,
                          151.37
247.401                   70.15
247.402                   70.15
247.403(7)                70.15
                          70.01,
                          71.01,
257.1 through 257.923     71.03,
                          71.17,
                          71.22
257.710B                  71.24
325.191                   52.40
325.192                   52.40
333.127101 et seq.        51.25
333.27951 et seq.         130.46,
                          130.47
338.2301 et seq.          150.01
339.2501 et seq.          150.21
399.201 et seq.           151.42
436.1 et seq.             93.20
560.101 et seq.           32.01
560.186                   150.40
600.113                   70.99
600.8101 et seq.          72.01
600.8395                  72.01
600.8701 through 600.8735 10.02
712A.2                    130.37
722.673                   110.02,
                          130.15
752.362                   110.02,
                          130.15
764.9a through 764.9e     10.10
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     91.40 -
1        3-6-1947    91.43,
                     91.99
2        4-3-1947    130.21
3        4-3-1947    130.22,
                     130.99
4        4-3-1947    130.23
6        4-3-1947    130.24
7        4-3-1947    130.20
9        4-3-1947    90.23,
                     90.99
10       4-3-1947    150.41,
                     150.99
11       4-3-1947    92.25,
                     92.99
12       4-3-1947    92.26,
                     92.99
13       4-3-1947    70.17,
                     70.99
16       4-1-1948    Ch. 73, Sch. V
17       4-1-1948    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                     Ch. 73, Schs.
18       6-3-1948    I,
                     VI
-        6-3-1948    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
19       5-5-1949    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     71.01 -
                     71.22,
21       - -1952     71.99,
                     72.20 -
                     72.23,
                     72.99
20       6-5-1952    Ch. 73, Sch. II
                     114.01 -
24       7-2-1953    114.12,
                     114.99
25       6-23-1954   T.S.O. I
27       8-9-1959    52.41,
                     52.99
29       3-2-1961    71.23,
                     71.99
                     153.01 -
30       - -1962     153.06,
                     153.99
31       - -1962     71.26
33       - -1963     150.03,
                     150.04
35       10-3-1963   130.35
                     91.20 -
39       4-14-1966   91.27,
                     91.99
42       4-4-1968    130.36
45       6-5-1969    72.01 -
                     72.06
46       10-2-1969   150.40
51       4-5-1973    71.25,
                     71.99
                     Ch. 73, Schs.
54       5-3-1973    III,
                     IV
55       6-7-1973    52.40
                     53.01 -
58       1-3-1974    53.06,
                     53.99
60       9-5-1974    93.21,
                     93.99
61       10-21-1974  150.03,
                     150.04
                     72.24,
63       8-5-1976    72.99;
                     Ch.73, Sch. I
                     130.01,
64       12-2-1976   130.16 -
                     130.20,
                     130.99
74       11-14-1979  51.20 -
                     51.31
                     51.01 -
75       11-14-1979  51.08,
                     51.99
77       8-6-1981    113.01 -
                     113.14
78       9-3-1981    T.S.O. I
80       10-1-1981   T.S.O. I
                     90.01 -
                     90.07,
86       5-2-1985    90.20 -
                     90.22,
                     90.99
88       7-11-1985   T.S.O. I
                     150.01,
94       1-13-1988   150.03,
                     150.04
95       8-10-1988   150.02
96       8-10-1988   T.S.O. I
98       3-8-1989    95.02,
                     95.99
101      11-14-1990  71.24,
                     71.99
                     50.01 -
103      12-12-1990  50.16,
                     50.99
104      1-9-1991    50.11
106      1-8-1992    T.S.O. III
                     112.01 -
110      5-13-1992   112.12,
                     112.99
112      11-11-1992  95.01,
                     95.99
114      4-14-1993   50.10,
                     50.13
115      4-14-1993   112.04
116      6-9-1993    T.S.O. III
117      10-13-1993  113.25 -
                     113.42
                     50.99,
                     51.99,
                     71.99,
                     72.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
119      4-12-1995   92.99,
                     93.99,
                     95.99,
                     112.99,
                     130.99,
                     150.99,
                     153.99
120      3-13-1996   30.01
122      10-9-1996   T.S.O. I
                     150.20 -
123      5-14-1997   150.27,
                     150.99
                     91.01 -
124      5-14-1997   91.05,
                     91.99
125      5-14-1997   130.37,
                     130.99
                     111.01 -
126      5-14-1997   111.10,
                     111.99
127      4-8-1998    71.26
129      7-8-1998    51.23
131      3-10-1999   51.23
132      5-12-1999   93.20
133      6-9-1999    93.20
134      8-11-1999   32.02
137      9-13-2000   150.05
138      11-8-2000   31.03
140      6-13-2001   130.15,
                     130.99
145      7-18-2001   51.23
151      2-19-2003   51.23
147      5-19-2004   33.01 -
                     33.18
149      5-19-2004   130.18
153      5-19-2004   31.01
154      5-19-2004   51.23
                     52.25 -
155      5-19-2004   52.29,
                     52.99
156      5-19-2004   34.01 -
                     34.20
                     92.01 -
157      1-12-2005   92.11,
                     92.99
158      1-12-2005   T.S.O. IV
159      6-8-2005    T.S.O. IV
161      7-13-2005   70.15,
                     70.99
162      9-4-2005    T.S.O. IV
163      10-12-2005  T.S.O. IV
164      11-9-2005   92.04
165      11-10-2005  70.01
166      4-12-2006   70.02
167      10-11-2006  T.S.O. IV
168      5-9-2007    T.S.O. IV
                     33.02,
                     33.04,
169      5-9-2007    33.05,
                     33.09,
                     33.11
171      5-9-2007    51.27
173      10-10-2007  T.S.O. IV
174      10-10-2007  T.S.O. IV
178      11-20-2008  31.01
                     52.01 -
179      2-25-2009   52.12,
                     52.99
180      2-25-2009   51.23,
                     51.31
181      3-11-2009   T.S.O. IV
182      4-29-2009   T.S.O. II
                     50.30 -
184      8-12-2009   50.35,
                     50.99,
                     51.99
                     110.01 -
                     110.03,
                     110.15 -
185      11-11-2009  110.22,
                     110.35 -
                     110.43,
                     110.99
186      4-14-2010   93.20
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
187      7-14-2010   151.15 -
                     151.19,
                     151.30 -
                     151.42
189      10-13-2010  93.01 -
                     93.05
190      12-8-2010   52.03
191      5-11-2011   33.03
193      6-8-2011    150.01,
                     150.99
194      6-8-2011    32.01
196      12-14-2011  52.02
197      12-14-2011  51.23
                     152.01 -
198      5-9-2012    152.06,
                     152.99
199      12-12-2012  151.15
200      4-10-2013   70.15,
                     70.99
201      6-12-2013   51.23
                     94.01 -
202      7-10-2013   94.16,
                     94.99
204      8-13-2014   91.03
205      7-8-2015    93.01
                     92.35 -
206      11-11-2015  92.50,
                     92.99
207      11-11-2015  93.01
208      1-13-2016   T.S.O. I
                     115.01 -
210      6-14-2017   115.06,
                     115.99
211      6-14-2017   154.01
212      10-11-2017  51.23
213      10-11-2017  52.03
214      12-12-2018  95.01
215      12-12-2018  115.99
216      12-12-2018  130.45 -
                     130.48
217      4-10-2019   51.23
218      6-12-2019   T.S.O. I
                    
 
