TUSCARORA TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 38, passed 6-2-2020
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Severability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the Tuscarora Township Code.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the township, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE. The Tuscarora Township Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. County of Cheboygan, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. A person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Tuscarora
Township, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the OFFICER shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the township and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP. Tuscarora Township, Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township, any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the township;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the
township;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any township
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the township office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoined, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Tuscarora Township
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Tuscarora Township Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads
as follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the township, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a township ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Fire Marshal;
   (C)   Fire Chief;
   (D)   Supervisor; and
   (E)   Local police.
§ 10.11 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Fiscal year
   
30.02   Freedom of Information Act
§ 30.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   Commencing in 1988, the fiscal year of the township shall extend from
July 1 of each year until June 30 of the following year. Any preexisting
township budget lawfully adopted by the Township Board shall be proportionately
extended to coincide with the foregoing new fiscal year periods.
   (B)   The annual settlement day meeting of the Township Board shall
hereafter be held on the fifteenth day of the last month of the fiscal year of
the township unless said day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday
whereupon said meeting shall be held on the following Monday which is not a
legal holiday.
   (C)   The annual meeting of the electors of the township, where the same has
not been abolished, shall be held on the last Saturday in the last month of the
aforesaid fiscal year at such time and place as is determined by the Township
Board.
(Ord. 12, passed 2-2-1988)
§ 30.02 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
   The state Freedom of Information Act is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as if set out by reference herein.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SANITARY SEWER USE
      
51.   PUBLIC WATER
CHAPTER 50: SANITARY SEWER USE
Section
Definitions
   
50.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.015   Connection required
   
50.016   Connection for new plats
   
50.017   Extensions to serve other parcels
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.030   Connection permit required
   
50.031   Permit application
   
50.032   Permit duration
   
50.033   Payment of costs; indemnification of township
   
50.034   Separate sewer for each building
   
50.035   Old building sewers
   
50.036   Pipe requirements
   
50.037   Building sewer diameter
   
50.038   Check valves
   
50.039   Fees established
   
50.040   Distancing from water lines
   
50.041   Building sewer elevation and slope
   
50.042   Lift device required
   
50.043   Riser
   
50.044   Specifications and inspection
   
50.045   Joints
   
50.046   Sampling manhole
   
50.047   Connection specifications
   
50.048   Prohibited connections; storm water/artesian wells
   
50.049   Compliance with codes
   
50.050   Safely measures
   
50.051   Notification for inspection
   
50.052   Capacity available downstream
   
50.053   Maintenance
Use of the Public Sewer
   
50.065   Surface storm and cooling water prohibited
   
50.066   Proper storm water disposal
   
50.067   Prohibited discharges
   
50.068   Industrial cost recovery
   
50.069   Noncomplying discharges
   
50.070   Pre-treatment facilities
   
50.071   Special arrangements
   
50.072   Arrangements with other municipalities
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.085   Entry and damage prohibited
   
50.086   Use conditional
   
50.087   Remedies cumulative
   
50.088   Notification required
   
50.089   Sampling
   
50.090   Public nuisances per se
   
50.091   Costs
   
50.092   Remedies and cost recovery
   
50.093   Misdemeanors
   
50.094   Enforcement
   
50.095   Administrative orders
   
50.096   Termination of service
   
50.097   Right of entry
   
50.098   Authorized officials
   
50.099   Appeals
Rates, Fees and Charges
   
50.110   Rationale
   
50.111   Resolution establishing
   
50.112   Billing and collection
 
   
50.999   Penalty
DEFINITIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter, under standard laboratory
procedure, in five days at 20°C and is expressed in terms of weight or in terms
of concentration by milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge inside the walls of the building and
conveys it to the building sewer. The BUILDING DRAIN shall begin five feet
outside the inner face of the building wall and terminate in the building.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sanitary
sewer or other place of disposal.
   CBOD (DENOTING CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The oxygen-consuming capacity of
organic and inorganic matter present in sewage expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit into which raw household sewage or other
untreated liquid waste is discharged, and from which the liquid seeps into the
surrounding soil or is otherwise removed.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine applied and
the amount of free chlorine available at the end of contact time expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CONNECTION INSPECTOR. The person designated by the Township Board or, if not
by the Township Board, by the Township Supervisor, as responsible for
inspecting connections of individual structures to the public sanitary sewer
system.
   DEFINED SEWER DISTRICT. All the parcels within the special assessment
district that was established on April 11, 2012.
   DOMESTIC USER. A user of the system who discharges only domestic wastewater
into the system.
   DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. The liquefied wastes such as human excreta; wastes from
sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, laundries, and any other water-carried
wastes or organic nature either singly or in combination, from personal or
residential sanitation.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparing, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, sale and storage of produce.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as boats, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, motor homes, septic tanks, vacuum-pump tank trucks,
other tank trucks, barrels or other such tanks or containers.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquefied or liquid carried wastes, solids or
semisolids from industrial, commercial or institutional processes as distinct
from domestic wastewater.
   INTERFERENCE. Any discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the system and any of its processes or
operations, or the use or disposal of its sludge;
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the applicable NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MDEQ. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality or any successor
agency.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, lake, ditch or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES PERMIT. The national pollution discharge elimination system permit
issued for the system.
   NUISANCE. Any condition where sewage or the effluent from any sewage
disposal facility or toilet device is exposed to the surface of the ground; or
is permitted to drain on or to the surface of the ground, into any ditch, storm
sewer, lake or stream; or when the odor, appearance or presence of this
material has an obnoxious or detrimental effect on or to the senses and/or
health of persons; or when it shall obstruct the comfortable use or sale of
adjacent property.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, partnership, society,
corporation, group, trust or other legally recognizable organization or entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the cooking, preparation and
dispensing of food that have been shredded or cut to such degree that all
particles will be freely carried under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sanitary sewer within the system.
   REU, RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT. Unit basis for determining water usage and
billing. One REU is equal to one single-family residence. Also known as a
BENEFIT.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage. Storm, surface and ground
waters are not admitted to a SANITARY SEWER.
   SEEPAGE PIT. A cistern or underground enclosure constructed of concrete
blocks, bricks or similar material, loosely laid with open joints to allow
septic tank overflow or effluent to be absorbed directly into the surrounding
soil.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight tank or receptacle used to receive wastes from
flush toilets, sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, laundry drains and any
other similar waste lines. The SEPTIC TANK is intended to provide for the
separation of substantial portions of the suspended solids in such wastes and
the partial destruction by bacterial action on solids so separated.
   SERVICE AREA. A portion of the area within the boundaries of the township.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES. A privy, cesspool, seepage pit, septic tank,
subsurface disposal system or other devices used in the disposal of sewage or
human excreta.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treatment of sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of time longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The Tuscarora Township Standard Specifications for
Sanitary Sewer, as they may be amended or any successor standards adopted by
the Township Board.
   STATE. The State of Michigan, including any agency or official of competent
jurisdiction.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface waters or
drainage, but excludes sewage or polluted industrial wastes.
   SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An arrangement for distribution of septic tank
effluent or overflow beneath the ground surface.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids either floating on the surface of or suspended in
water or sewage, and which are removable by laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM. The complete sanitary sewer disposal system lying within the
township and includes all collection lines, mains and other piping; all pump
and lift stations; all control structures; all manholes; the sewage treatment
plant; the outfall piping; and all appurtenances.
   TOILET DEVICE. A privy, outhouse, septic tank or toilet, chemical closet or
other device used for the disposal of human excreta.
   TOWNSHIP. Tuscarora Township, a Michigan municipal corporation.
   USER. Any person who is an owner, operator or occupant of a premises
connected to or discharging into the system.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.015 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All structures of every kind and character situated within the sewer
district that are used or are available for use for household, commercial,
industrial, institutional or other purposes in which there are toilet, kitchen,
laundry, bathing or other domestic, industrial or commercial facilities
generating sewage shall be connected directly to the public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The connection of existing structures to a newly installed public
sanitary sewer which is available for connection as provided in division (A)
above shall be made not later than 12 months from the date of publication of
notice by the township of the availability of the public sanitary sewer in a
newspaper of general circulation in the township; provided, however, that upon
a finding by the Local Health Department that sewage emanating from a structure
is causing an immediate health hazard or public nuisance, the township or the
Local Health Department may require the connection to be made forthwith after
notice to the owner of the property on which the structure is located. The
notice may be given by first-class or certified mail or by posting on the
property.
   (C)   The connection of structures to a public sanitary sewer which are
completed, or which are modified so as to become a structure in which sewage
originates, after the date of installation of the available public sanitary
sewer, shall be made not later than the time such structure or modified
structure is completed and is available for use.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.016 CONNECTION FOR NEW PLATS.
   (A)   Inside the defined sewer district, the owner or owners of any lands
platted or divided into four or more lots in the service area after the
effective date of this chapter may apply for a public sewer to be installed in
the plat at the owner’s expense and pay such other fees as required. This sewer
shall meet the construction and capacity requirements as directed by the
township. The owner(s) shall apply to connect each of these plat sewers to the
existing public sewer in the service area in which the plat is located. Such
application shall be approved by the township. The township’s designated
engineer shall review all plans and specifications, and the owner or developer
of the lots shall pay all costs incurred by the township for the review and
approval of such plans and specifications and for the inspection and approval
of the sewers installed in the plat, as well as their connection to the public
sewer. Once constructed and accepted by the township, such sewers in the plat
shall be public sewers.
   (B)   Township Board approval is required for parcels outside of the defined
sewer district.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.017 EXTENSIONS TO SERVE OTHER PARCELS.
   (A)   Inside the defined sewer district, one service connection will be
provided to all parcels within the sewer district as part of the special
assessment amount. Any additional connections or extensions would be at the
property owner’s expense.
   (B)   Owners of undeveloped parcels located within the service area who
requested that public sewer service not be extended to the undeveloped parcel
at the time of construction may, at a future date, request that the parcel be
serviced by the public sewer. If no service connection or lateral was
constructed to such property, no such connection shall occur until a service
connection and lateral area is constructed in accordance with the township’s
specifications and under the review of the Township Engineer. The owner or
developer shall obtain all required County Road Commission and other permits.
The plans and specifications for the building drain, building sewer, service
connection and lateral shall be submitted to the township and may be referred
to the township’s designated engineer for review and approval. The property
owner or developer shall pay all costs of the connection, including all costs
incurred by the township to review and approve plans and to inspect the same.
The owner or owners of the parcel shall apply to connect to the existing public
sewer of the service area in which the land is located. Such application must
be approved by the township. The owner(s) of the parcel shall be responsible
for payment of all costs related to construction and connection of the service,
including, but not limited to, actual construction costs; backfill,
restoration, and replacement costs; and all applicable permit, inspection, and
hook-up fees. Construction and connection of the service shall be in accordance
with the Standard Specifications. Also, all conditions and requirements of this
chapter shall be satisfied by the owner(s) before the township will allow
connection to the system.
   (C)   Township Board approval is required for parcels outside of the defined
sewer district.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.030 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with or open
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or its appurtenances without first
obtaining a written permit from the township.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.031 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Prior to connection of a building sewer to the public sewer, the owner or
the owner’s agent shall submit a permit application to the township. This
application will be on a special form furnished by the township. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any fees, and by any plans, specifications
or other information required. Any user which will be discharging non-domestic
wastewater shall provide detailed information about the quantities,
characteristics, timing and other aspects of its anticipated discharges into
the public sewers, as well as details of any pre-treatment, slug control,
discharge rate controls, spill prevention plans and other controls or
safeguards to be in the applicant’s facility.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.032 PERMIT DURATION.
   A permit shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.033 PAYMENT OF COSTS; INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWNSHIP.
   During the initial phase of construction a service lead will be extended
from the sanitary sewer to the property line. The building sewer will make
connection to that service lead at the property line. All costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner or applicant. A contractor hired or approved by the township
shall construct any needed lateral or stub from the public sewer main to the
property line. The property owner shall pay all costs of such construction. The
owner or applicant shall indemnify the township from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.034 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING.
   Separate and independent building sewer leads shall be provided for every
building. Exceptions will be considered by the township only for pre-existing
buildings which cannot otherwise be connected to the public sewer. Exceptions
will also be considered by the township for integrated manufacturing facilities
with process or assembly connections between buildings.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.035 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the township or the connection
inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter and adopted plumbing code
standards.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.036 PIPE REQUIREMENTS.
   The building sewer shall meet the requirements of the Standard
Specifications.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.037 BUILDING SEWER DIAMETER.
   The size of the building sewer shall not be less than six inches in diameter
for all new construction with two REUs or more. Existing buildings making
connection to the system may use their existing piping on their own property
upon the owner’s discretion. Typical piping requirements are four inches for
residential and six inches for commercial.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.038 CHECK VALVES.
    All building drains shall have check valves or other backflow preventers.
The failure to have proper functioning check valves or other backflow
preventers shall serve as a defense to the township against any and all claims,
including, but not limited to, a property damage claim or physical injury claim
as a result of a sewage disposal event pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 691.1417.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.039 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The township shall be responsible for the establishment of, and provide for
the collection of, all permit, hook-up and inspection fees as may be required.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.040 DISTANCING FROM WATER LINES.
   A minimum distance of ten feet shall be maintained between the building
sewer and any water- carrying pipes.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.041 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION AND SLOPE.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to
and within three feet of any bearing wall. The minimum depth of the building
sewer at the property line shall be six feet below the established street
grade. Where this minimum depth cannot be obtained, the building sewer shall be
laid with a rise of one-quarter inch per foot.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.042 LIFT DEVICE REQUIRED.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the building sewer, sewage to be carried by the building drain shall be
lifted by approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.043 RISER.
   Where the public sewer is more than 12 feet deep measured from established
street grade, a riser shall be constructed on the public sewer, bringing it up
to six feet using methods and materials approved by the township.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.044 SPECIFICATIONS AND INSPECTION.
   All excavations, pipe laying and backfill required for the installation of
building sewers shall be done to conform to requirements and standards approved
by the township. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected
and approved by the Connection Inspector. Cinders shall not be used as
backfill.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.045 JOINTS.
   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and meet
the requirements of the Standard Specifications.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.046 SAMPLING MANHOLE.
   Upon township review, applicants which will be discharging non-domestic
wastewater into the system may be required to construct and install a sampling
manhole in a location, outside of any building or structure on the premises,
which is accessible at all times by the township employee who shall review and
approve the plans and specifications for that manhole.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.047 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made at
the wye or tee branch. If the property owner wishes to connect a building sewer
to the public sewer and no wye or tee branch is available, the owner shall meet
with the township and, if required, with the Township Board. At this meeting,
the parties will determine the exact location and method of cutting into the
sewer and materials to be used.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.048 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS; STORM WATER/ARTESIAN WELLS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior footing or
foundation drains, areaway drains, storm drains or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater (including artesian wells and any type of geothermal
system waste) to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to any public sewer.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.049 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   Connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall conform to
requirements of the Standard Specifications, building and plumbing codes, and
this chapter along with appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M., the
W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 and the Ten State Standards. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the township.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.050 SAFELY MEASURES.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the township at the expense
of the owner.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.051 NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Connection
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for connection with the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Connection
Inspector.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.052 CAPACITY AVAILABLE DOWNSTREAM.
   Connections will not be permitted if there is inadequate capacity available
in the downstream portions of the public sewer or at the sewage treatment
plant.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.053 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of the property which is served by the system shall, at his, her
or its own expense, maintain and repair the building drain and the portion of
the building sewer located on his, her or its property. The property owner
shall be responsible for the maintenance and cleaning of the entire building
drain and building sewer from the structure in which sanitary sewage originates
out to the public sewer main. The township shall be responsible for the
maintenance, cleaning and repair of the public sewer main and for the repair or
replacement of broken or crushed portions of the building sewer from the main
to the property line and shall have no responsibility of any sort for the
building sewer or the building drain located on the owner’s property. The
township obligation to clean sewer lines extends only to the public sewer main
which collects and transmits the sewage of various properties served by the
system. The township shall have no responsibility to clean the building sewer,
any private sewer lines or lateral lines.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWER
§ 50.065 SURFACE STORM AND COOLING WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling waters into any
public sewer.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.066 PROPER STORM WATER DISPOSAL.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
ground surface, or to a natural outlet approved by the township or the state.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.067 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as provided by more specific limits stated in this chapter, no person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following to any public
sewers:
   (A)   BOD5 in excess of 300 mg/l;
   (B)   COD in excess of 450 mg/l;
   (C)   Chlorine demand in excess of 15 mg/l;
   (D)   Any explosive liquid, solid or gas including, but not limited to, any
benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable material, and including, but not
limited to, any substance which results in sewage having a closed air
flashpoint of less than 140°F or 60°C;
   (E)   Pollutants having a corrosive property capable of causing damage to
the structures, equipment or employees of the sanitary sewer system, including,
but not limited to, wastewater with a pH less than the limit set forth in
division (N) below;
   (F)   Any garbage which is not properly shredded;
   (G)   Grease, oils, wax, fats or any other substances that will solidify or
become viscous in the sewer at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F;
   (H)   Inert suspended solids, such as, but not limited to, Fuller’s earth,
lime slurries and lime residues, or dissolved solids, such as, but not limited
to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in unusual concentrations; or any
material which can be disposed of as trash;
   (I)   Substances which tend to settle out in the sewer, causing stoppage or
obstruction to flow;
   (J)   Liquids which are corrosive;
   (K)   Garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in dimension;
   (L)   Insoluble, solid or viscous substances such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair, paunch manure or any substance which can be disposed of
in the trash;
   (M)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (N)   Substances having a pH less than 6.5 and greater than 9.0;
   (O)   All toxic, poisonous or radioactive wastes exceeding limits
established by applicable state and federal regulations;
   (P)   Any substance harmful to pipes, jointing material and manholes;
   (Q)   Any live animals or fish;
   (R)   Suspended solids in excess of 350 mg/l;
   (S)   Wastes having a temperature less than 32°F or greater than 150°F;
   (T)   Any substance which could cause any blockage of any pipes or could
cause interference;
   (U)   Any holding tank wastes except as approved by the township in
accordance with policies of the township and only at such places in the system
as may be designated by and after the sampling and analysis required by such
policies;
   (V)   Color, as from, but not limited to, dyes, inks and vegetable tanning
solutions, if they interfere with light absorbency or analytical
determinations;
   (W)   Discharges resulting in excess foaming during treatment;
   (X)   Anti-freeze, motor oil, brake fluid, transmission fluid, hydraulic
fluid, cleaning solvents, oil-based paint and paint thinners; and
   (Y)   Any discharge violating any order of the township, any permit
requirement or any order of an agency or court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.068 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Any non-governmental non-domestic user of the system which
discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gpd of non-domestic wastewater
into the system and which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, United States Office of Management and Budget, as
amended and supplemented, under one of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A. Agricultural, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B. Mining;
         (c)   Division D. Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I. Services.
      (2)   Any discharger or user shall comply with §
50.069, including:
         (a)   Any discharger listed in division (A)(1) above with a volume
exceeding 25,000 gpd or the weight of BOD or suspended solids equivalent to the
weight of BOD or SS normally found in 25,000 gpd of domestic waste; and
         (b)   Any user discharging into the system any substance in a quantity
which either singly or by interaction with other wastes, causes an
interference, a nuisance or a hazard to any person or animal.
   (B)   Cost recovery. If any user were to contribute 10% or more of any one
design parameter that is flow, BOD or SS, a letter of intent to use the sewage
treatment plant shall be required. Those users contributing less than 10% will
not be required to submit a letter of intent but shall be subject to an
industrial cost recovery charge. Such users shall construct a sampling control
manhole for the purpose of measuring the amount of and determining the type of
non-domestic wastewater introduced to the sewage treatment plant by the user.
As a result of the flow measuring and sampling, the township may require the
non-domestic wastewater to be pretreated prior to introduction to the public
sewer. If for any reason such a user should cease operation during the cost
recovery period, it will not be held responsible for cost recovery payments.
The capacity formerly utilized by that user shall become available for
increases in loading or for new industrial users. The removal of a user from
the cost recovery system shall not in any way affect the industrial cost
recovery charge for any other user.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.069 NONCOMPLYING DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any sewage or substances are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers in violation of §
50.067, and which in the judgment of the township may have a deleterious effect
upon the system, its processes, its effluent or the receiving waters, or which
might otherwise be hazardous or constitute a public nuisance, the township may:
      (1)   Reject the sewage or other substances;
      (2)   Require pre-treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge into the
public sewers; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the sewage or other substances as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the township permits the pre-treatment or equalization of sewage
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the township, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders, directives and permit
requirements.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.070 PRE-TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where pre-treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided on a user’s
premises, they shall be constructed, installed, operated, repaired and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation, by the owner
at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.071 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any special agreement or arrangement
between the township and any non-domestic user whereby a non-domestic
wastewater of unusual strength or character may be accepted in the system for
treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the non-domestic user.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.072 ARRANGEMENTS WITH OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any agreement or arrangement between
the township and any municipality whereby sewage from another municipality may
be accepted in the system for treatment, subject to payment by the
municipality.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.085 ENTRY AND DAMAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person, without prior written authorization, shall break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with, climb upon or enter into any line, main,
pipe, manhole, pump, lift station, plant, building, structure, equipment,
facility, improvement or appurtenance belonging to or part of the system.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.086 USE CONDITIONAL.
   Use of the system and any discharge into any public sewer is conditional
upon compliance with this chapter including, without limitation, the payment of
all rates, fees and charges for such use and the compliance with all orders,
directives, permit requirements and requests for information pursuant to this
chapter. Users of the system are required to comply with all such orders,
directives, permit requirements and information requests issued or made
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.087 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies provided in the chapter, including, without limitation, those
in §§
50.085 through
50.099 and
50.110 through
50.112, are cumulative of each other and of any other remedies available at law
or in equity.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.088 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Any owner, occupant or operator of any premises or other person who knows or
has reason to know a discharge into the system or any public sewer within the
system has occurred or is going to occur in violation of §§
50.065 through
50.072 shall immediately notify the township or, if the township cannot be
contacted, any other township official, of the time, source, quantity and
characteristics, including any offending characteristics, of that discharge.
Such notification shall include any corrective actions which have been taken.
Such notification shall be followed, within 24 hours, with a written report
providing updated information fully disclosing all the above information in
addition to a detailed description of how the violation occurred.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.089 SAMPLING.
   The township may sample or cause to be sampled at such times and frequencies
as the township may deem appropriate the sewage of any user. If a violation is
found after analyses, the violating user shall reimburse the system the cost of
any such sampling and analyses.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.090 PUBLIC NUISANCES PER SE.
   A violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance per se for
which the township may avail itself of any remedies available at law or in
equity.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.091 COSTS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, in addition to any
other fines or consequences, reimburse the township for any costs it may incur
to investigate and prosecute that violation, to remedy or repair any damage to
the system as a result of such violation, to pay any fines or penalties
incurred as a result of any violation (such as a resulting violation in an
NPDES permit), to better assure such violations or damages do not recur, to
compensate any persons injured or to pay for any damage to property (including
natural resources) damaged as a result of any violation and for any other costs
that incurs as a result of any violation. Costs may include without limitation,
engineering and consultant fees, sampling and analytical fees, legal fees,
personnel costs, costs for replacing systems equipment or components, fines or
penalties paid to the MDEQ or other agency, equipment rental and other costs.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.092 REMEDIES AND COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The township may obtain any remedy allowed by law for any violation of
any discharge limitation, a pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (B)   If a user’s discharge results in a deposit, an obstruction, damage or
an impairment in the sanitary sewer system, then the user shall be liable to
the township for the costs of cleaning, repairing or replacing the affected
components.
   (C)   In any enforcement action, the township may recover from the user
subject to the enforcement action the township’s costs for sampling, analysis,
other surveillance measures and time devoted to the action by the township,
Township Attorney or other personnel.
   (D)   A user shall be liable to the township for fine or costs or other
liability imposed upon the township if:
      (1)   The user has violated any discharge limitation or pretreatment
standard or requirement;
      (2)   The user’s violation has caused the township to violate any
requirement to which it is subject or increased the magnitude or duration of a
violation or resulted in the township’s incurring any other liability; and
      (3)   An enforcement action against the township by the DNR, the EPA or
any other person resulted in the penalty or other liability being imposed upon
the township.
   (E)   In addition to any other rates, fees, charges, fines, penalties or
other costs, a user shall be responsible for any additional costs incurred by
the township as a result of the user’s violation of this subchapter, including
without limitation expenses for additional monitoring, sampling or analysis,
expenses for additional investigation, costs for additional reports, costs for
storing, dumping or treating discharges, costs of damage to or loss of the
treatment works or natural resources, fines and penalties. The user shall be
notified of all such charges and shall pay them within 30 days of notification.
Failure to pay shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.093 MISDEMEANORS.
   (A)   A person who knowingly submits or prepares for submission to the
township a false statement, representation or certification in any application,
record, report, plan or other document is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B) A person who knowingly tampers with or alters a monitoring device or
process (including, without limitation, a meter), causing inaccurate readings
or results, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.094 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter is enforceable by the township, its constituent
municipalities and any municipality contracting with the township for service.
A person charged with and authorized to enforce this chapter may issue a
citation or an appearance ticket to any person who is reasonably believed to
have violated any of this chapter.
      (1)   The township shall exercise its enforcement powers against a
violator within any constituent municipality or any municipality contracting
with the township for service.
      (2)   A municipality may exercise its enforcement powers against a
violator located in territory under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Enforcement powers include the power to bring an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to enjoin the violation of this chapter, to bring an
action to recover actual damages sustained due to a violation of this chapter
and to be awarded costs and fees in those actions as provided in §§ 2401 to
2461 of the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.095 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   The township may, in case of any violation of the provisions of §§
50.065 through
50.072 order the user to pre-treat its sewage or to control the quantities and
rates of its discharges to the public sewer. Such order shall be in writing and
shall provide a date by which the necessary facilities are constructed,
installed and put into operation. Users to which such an order is issued shall
comply with the requirements of §
50.070 pertaining to the application for and construction and installation of
such facilities.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.096 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   In case a violation of any provision of the chapter constitutes or results
in an imminent threat to the public health or safety or an imminent violation
of an NPDES permit requirement, the township may immediately, upon written
notice to the user, terminate the user’s use of the system. In other
situations, service may be terminated after written notice and an opportunity
for a hearing before the hearing panel. See §
50.099.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.097 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The township, the Connection Inspector, the MDEQ, any agent of the township
for any premises within the system’s service area and any agent of a
constituent municipality shall have the right during any reasonable business
hours to enter the premises of any user to inspect, observe, measure, sample
and test to assure compliance with this chapter. Such persons shall provide
identification upon the request of any property owner or occupant.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.098 AUTHORIZED OFFICIALS.
   The township may hire such employees and agents as it deems reasonably
necessary and convenient for the administration of the sanitary sewer system.
The township may also appoint special committees or panels to address any
issues that may arise to provide the Township Board with guidance. The
Connection Inspector and any officer of the township are designated as township
officials authorized to issue civil infraction notices and citations as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.099 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an action of the township or the Connection
Inspector pursuant to this chapter may appeal in writing to the Township Clerk
who shall transmit the appeal to the Township Board. That body shall, at its
next regular meeting, either decide to itself hear the appeal as the appeal
panel or appoint a separate appeal panel of not less than three persons who may
be township officers or employees (provided they are not subordinates to the
official from whom the appeal was made), consultants, engineers, attorneys or
others and need not be township residents.
   (B)   The written appeal shall state with specificity the issue being
appealed, the basis for the appeal, the supporting facts for the appeal, the
supporting legal basis, if any, for the appeal, the relief sought and any other
information deemed relevant to the appeal and shall have attached all
supporting documents.
   (C)   The appeal panel shall provide the appellant and the official from
whom the appeal was made notice of the time and place for a hearing on the
appeal which shall not be more than 60 days after the appeal was filed and of
the rules and procedures to be followed at the hearing. The hearing may be
informal and need not follow any formal rules of evidence.
   (D)   The appeal panel shall, within 30 days after the hearing and any time
after the hearing allowed for the filing of supplemental information, render
its decision in writing. It may affirm the decision of the official from whom
the appeal was made, reverse that decision or modify the decision. It may also
condition its decision with terms the appeal panel deems necessary to assure
the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, and the protection of
the system.
   (E)   If the appellant does not prevail in the appeal, the appeal panel may
order the appellant to pay all costs incurred by the township or by a
constituent municipality as a result of the appeal.
   (F)   The decision of the hearing panel shall be final.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
RATES, FEES AND CHARGES
§ 50.110 RATIONALE.
   It is recognized that use of the system requires payment of costs of
providing the services of the system. Such costs include not only the day-today
operation and maintenance costs, but also the costs incurred to construct and
install the system components, the cost to undertake reasonably foreseeable
repairs and replacement and the like. When the system components were designed
and constructed, they necessarily needed to be sized to accommodate all
foreseeably possible usage of the system from a premises and so the system is
available to accommodate such reasonably foreseeable usage. Accordingly,
certain charges are imposed regardless of actual usage while other charges
recognize that those who actually make more use of the system should pay more.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.111 RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING.
   (A)   The rates, fees and charges, including, but not limited to, the
residential equivalent unit/benefit charges as calculated utilizing the
township schedule of benefits table, for permits issued pursuant to this
chapter, and for connection to and use of the system shall be in such amounts
as are established by resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   Such rates, fees and charges shall be established in amounts
sufficient to pay all costs of the operation, maintenance and repair of the
system and any amounts required to be paid or maintained under the terms of any
bonds or other obligations of indebtedness of the system, including, without
limitation, a fund balance reasonably anticipated to be sufficient to fund
reasonably anticipated equipment replacement and emergency repairs of the
system.
   (C)   The use of a meter on the premises to calculate flow for the purpose
of billing for use may be at the option of the property owner if they have two
or more REUs but the township reserves the right to require a meter for users
if it is deemed necessary to properly bill that customer for operational cost.
   (D)   Such rates, fees and charges may, in the discretion of the Township
Board include the following in such amounts or at such rates as determined by
the Township Board:
      (1)   Permit fees in amounts as are reasonably determined to cover the
costs of permit issuance, inspection and enforcement;
      (2)   Connection fees in amounts reasonably determined to be sufficient
to pay some of the capital and/or debt retirement costs of the system;
      (3)   Flat rate sewer use charge per REU;
      (4)   Readiness to serve charges or debt service charges based upon
residential equivalent units, meter size or other methodology as determined by
the township in amounts reasonably determined to be sufficient to pay some of
the capital and/or debt retirement costs of the system and/or all or a portion
of the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement costs of the system;
      (5)   Commodity or usage charges in amounts reasonably determined to be
sufficient to pay some of the capital and/or debt retirement costs of the
system and/or all or a portion of the operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement costs of the system; and
      (6)   Special rates, fees and charges in amounts and on such basis as is
reasonably determined to be sufficient to pay the costs of special services.
   (E)   At least annually the township shall review the rates, fees and
charges and adjust them as necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
   (F)   Irrigation systems may be connected before the meter or be metered
separately and used as a deduct meter because that flow will not be going into
the sewer system and should not be part of the metered use.
   (G)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm
or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.112 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   When system rates, fees and charges are not timely paid, it is
necessary to re-bill, to undertake other procedures required by this
subchapter, to prepare separate notices and accountings and undertake other
tasks that are not needed if they are timely paid. In addition, the other
system users essentially subsidize the non-paying or late paying user’s use of
the system. The system is not established, operated or well-adapted to provide
financing services for its users. Accordingly, charges are made to compensate
the system for the costs incurred due to untimely payments.
   (B)   Bills will be rendered at such intervals as are determined by
resolution of the Township Board, but not less frequently than quarterly.
   (C)   Bills shall be due and payable without interest or late fee at such
time after billing as is stated on the bill, provided not less than 15 days
shall be given for such payment after the billing date.
   (D)   Bills not paid by the due date shall bear interest at such rate and be
subject to a rebilling fee as determined by the Township Board.
   (E)   Service, installation, inspection, use and material rates, fees and
charges, including late fees and interest due thereon, shall constitute a lien
on the premises served from the date of such service unless the township is
served with written notice that a tenant is responsible for such charges. The
township official or officials in charge of the collection shall annually, not
later than September 1 of each year, certify to the Tax Assessing Officer of
the township the fact and the amount of the delinquency in payment for sewer
services to the property. Such lien shall have the same priority and shall be
collectible in the same manner as delinquent ad valorem real property taxes. If
the township is provided with notice in writing, including a copy of the lease
of the affected premises, that a tenant is responsible for the sewer charge,
the Township Board may require as a condition to rendering sewer services to
such premises a cash deposit equal to service charges at current rates for
three months (one quarter) as security for the payment of service charges.
   (F)   In addition to the other methods of collection and enforcement
provided in this rule or in law or at equity, the township may, after notice of
its intention to do so and of the opportunity for a hearing to show cause why
it should not occur, have the right to shut-off sewer service to any premises
for which rates, fees and charges for sewer service are not paid by the due
date, and such service shall not be re-established until all delinquent
charges, interest, penalties and a turn-on charges, to be specified by the
township, have been paid.
   (G)   In addition to the other methods of collection and enforcement
provided in this rule or in law or at equity, the township shall have the
option of collecting all rates, fees, charges, interest and late fees due
pursuant to this chapter by legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A violation of this chapter shall make the violator, including
without limitation the owner of the property in violation or on which the
violation occurs, liable for a civil fine up to $1,000, or other amount allowed
by law for each violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (2)   The following rules apply to violations:
         (a)   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense;
         (b)   Each substance or quantity discharged into the system in
violation of §§
50.065 through
50.072 shall constitute a separate offense;
         (c)   A separate violation occurs for each pollutant that exceeds an
applicable discharge limitation or pretreatment standard;
         (d)   If a user is in noncompliance with any discharge limitation or
pretreatment standard that is a monthly average, 30-day average, seven day
average or other daily average, then the user has one violation on each day of
the averaging period;
         (e)   If for any period a user has violated both a maximum and an
average discharge limitation or pretreatment standard for a particular
pollutant, then the total number of violations is the sum of the days on which
the maximum standard was violated and the days in the averaging period; and
         (f)   One violation occurs on:
            1.   Each day that a report is late; and
            2.   Each day after an action required to be completed is not
completed.
   (B)   A person who violates §
50.093(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more
that 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500, or both. Each violation
constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   A person who violates §
50.093(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more
that 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500, or both. Each violation
constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2013)
CHAPTER 51: PUBLIC WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Title
   
51.002   Definitions
Procedure
   
51.015   Application
Regulations
   
51.030   Connection
   
51.031   Curb box
   
51.032   Authorization
   
51.033   Water meters
   
51.034   Size and installation
   
51.035   Backflow prevention
   
51.036   Contamination
   
51.037   Cross-connections
   
51.038   Use of hydrants
   
51.039   MDEQ permit
   
51.040   Township/owner responsibility
Township Declaration of Water Emergency
   
51.055   Declaration of existence of emergency
   
51.056   Township’s declaration of water emergency
   
51.057   Water uses prohibited during water emergency
   
51.058   Termination of emergency
Rates, Fees and Charges
   
51.070   Rationale
   
51.071   Resolution establishing
   
51.072   Billing and collection
Revenues of the System
   
51.085   Revenues of the system
Supplementary Provisions
   
51.100   State and County Plumbing Codes
   
51.101   Indemnification
Township’s Liability Exemption
   
51.115   Interruption of service
   
51.116   Plumbing maintenance and failure
   
51.117   Service and locations costs
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Table of unit factors
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and hereafter cited as the “Tuscarora Township
Public Water Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Owner of property which is seeking to connect to the township
water system.
   CONTRACTOR. The licensed contractors selected by the Township Board to
install water connections.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which water of questionable quality or from a source other than the
township water system, wastes or other contaminants could possibly flow back
into the public water system because of reversal of flow.
   CURB BOX. A box or metal housing which encloses, protects and provides
access to the curb stop.
   CURB STOP. A valve for insertion in the service pipes, in size of one inch
to two inches in diameter, inclusive, at or near the curb line.
   ORDINANCE. The Tuscarora Township Public Water Ordinance, as codified in
this
Chapter 51, unless otherwise specified.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land or building having any connection to
the township water system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Tuscarora Township water system.
   REU - RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT TO BE KNOWN AS REU. As determined by the
table in Appendix A.
   SYSTEM. Tuscarora Township water system.
   TOWNSHIP. The Tuscarora Township Board.
   TOWNSHIP WATER SYSTEM. The complete facilities of the township’s water
supply system including all water storage facilities, and transmission lines,
including all appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and
improvements thereto, which may hereafter be acquired, within the Tuscarora
Township water district.
   WATER CONNECTION. The part of the township water system connecting the water
main to a point terminating at a meter or meter pit or vault.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the township water system located within easement
lines or streets and designated to supply more than one water connection.
   WATER SYSTEM. Tuscarora Township water system.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
PROCEDURE
§ 51.015 APPLICATION.
   Any person, or corporation desiring public water service shall file an
application/permit with the Township Clerk or Supervisor, containing the name
and address of the applicant; a description of the land or premises to be
serviced; the nature of the use anticipated for the water; the size of the
water service connection pipes desired; the distance, if known, that the
property is located from any existing public water main extension. After the
initial connection fee (tap fee) is paid to the township, the township will
have the water tap installed to the curb stop. Then it is the property owners’
responsibility to have the connection made between the curb stop and point of
connection for water usage. A permit from the County Building and Zoning
Department is required for the connection at point of service.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.030 CONNECTION.
   Pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter, the owners of all
houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated or constructed within the township water
districts are required to connect to the public water system for all potable
water. This connection will be done in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and under direction of the Township Board. Pre-existing noncomplying
private water systems are required to be connected when well or casing fails or
when new well is required.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.031 CURB BOX.
   No person other than a person authorized by the township shall turn on or
off any water service to any public or private premises at the curb box
connection of said premises to the water main.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.032 AUTHORIZATION.
   No person other than a person authorized by the township shall operate and/
or perform work on the public water system.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 WATER METERS.
    All premises connected to a public water system shall be equipped with a
public water meter furnished by the township, so located that all water
entering the premises shall pass through such meter and be measured as to
volume consumed for periodic computation of water charges. An owner may add a
second water meter for an additional charge for lawn sprinkling or irrigation
purposes if desired so as to not be charged sewer charges for such usage.
Meters shall remain the property of the township and all repairs and
replacements are to be completed by the township. Any person found tampering
with the meter shall be subject to penalty for ordinance violation under §
51.999.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.034 SIZE AND INSTALLATION.
   All water service connections from the curb stop to the required water meter
shall be not less than one inch in size and shall be installed using copper or
HDPE at a depth of not less than six feet at the expense of the property owner.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.035 BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   All connections to irrigation/sprinkling systems shall contain a backflow
prevention device meeting County Plumbing Code as part of such connections.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.036 CONTAMINATION.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit any act or to
allow to be committed any act that may contaminate or pollute or contribute to
the contamination or pollution to any part of the township water system or
wells.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.037 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No cross connections between any private water system and the township
water system shall be allowed and no plumbing shall at any time, be connected
to the public system, which is in any manner connected or a part of any private
water system.
   (B)   This township adopts, by reference, the water supply cross-connection
rules of the State Department of Public Health being Rules 1401 through 1407.
      (1)   Inspection of possible cross-connections. It shall be the duty of
the township’s designated representative to cause inspections to be made of all
property served by the township’s public water system where cross-connections
with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections
and re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the township and as approved by the State Department of Public
Health.
      (2)   Inspection rights. The township’s representative shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the township water system for the purpose of inspecting the piping and
connection system or systems. On request, the owner or occupant of the property
so served shall furnish to the inspector any pertinent information regarding
the piping system on the property being inspected. The refusal to provide such
information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of
the presence of a violation.
      (3)   Discontinue of water service. The township is authorized and
directed to discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection or
violation of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
system. Water served to such property shall not be restored until the cross-
connection or connections have been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Labeling of water outlets. The potable water supply made available
on the properties served by the public water supply shall be protected from
possible contamination as specified by this chapter and by the State and County
Plumbing Codes. Any water outlet, which could be used for potable or domestic
purposes and which is not supplied by the public water system must be labeled
in a conspicuous manner as: “WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING”.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.038 USE OF HYDRANTS.
   No fire hydrant shall be used for any purpose other than fire protection
without the prior approval of the township.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.039 MDEQ PERMIT.
   No public water mains shall be made or become operational until the water
flowing there from has been certified as safe and free of any harmful
contamination by a MDEQ certified lab and a written certificate attesting
thereto is on file with the township.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.040 TOWNSHIP/OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The township shall be responsible for the water system including water
service up to and including the curb box and curb stop. The owner shall be
responsible for the water service from the curb box and curb stop to the
premises.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
TOWNSHIP DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY
§ 51.055 DECLARATION OF EXISTENCE OF EMERGENCY.
   When the township shall have declared that a water emergency exists, notice
thereof shall be given by releasing such declaration to the official newspaper
of the township and to all radio stations maintaining studios within the
township and/or immediate surrounding area. Such notice shall advise of the
time of commencement of such emergency and that such emergency shall continue
until the township, through the same media, gives notice of termination.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.056 TOWNSHIP’S DECLARATION OF WATER EMERGENCY.
   At such time as the township shall determine that water consumption within
the township water districts, has or is about to exceed the supply available
for its uses on a continuing basis, the township may declare that a water
emergency exists.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.057 WATER USES PROHIBITED DURING WATER EMERGENCY.
   When the township has declared that a water emergency exists, the use and
withdrawal of water by any person from the township water system for any of the
following purposes is hereby prohibited:
   (A)   Watering of yards. The sprinkling, watering or irrigation of
shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens,
vegetables, flowers and any other vegetation;
   (B)   Cleaning outdoor surfaces. The washing of sidewalks, driveways,
filling station aprons, porches, patios and other outdoor hard surface areas;
   (C)   Swimming pools. The filling of swimming and wading pools is not
allowed; and
   (D)   Escape through defective plumbing. The escape of water through
defective plumbing, which shall mean the knowing permission for defective
plumbing to remain out of repair.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.058 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   When the township shall determine that the conditions which caused the
declaration of the water emergency no longer exists, it shall so declare and
give notice of such determination as noted in §
51.055.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
RATES, FEES AND CHARGES
§ 51.070 RATIONALE.
   It is recognized that use of the system requires payment of costs of
providing the services of the system. Such costs include not only the day-to-
day operation and maintenance costs, but also the costs incurred to construct
and install the system components, the cost to undertake reasonably foreseeable
repairs and replacement and the like. When the system components were designed
and constructed, they necessarily needed to be sized to accommodate all
foreseeable possible usage of the system from a premises and so the system is
available to accommodate such reasonably foreseeable usage. Accordingly,
certain charges are imposed regardless of actual usage while other charges
recognize that those who actually make more use of the system should pay more.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.071 RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING.
   (A)   The rates, fees and charges for permits issued pursuant to this water
chapter, and for connection to and use of the system shall be in such amounts
as are established from time to time by resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   Such rates, fees and charges shall be established in amounts
sufficient to pay all costs of the operation, maintenance and repair of the
system and any amounts required to be paid or maintained under the terms of any
bonds or other obligations of indebtedness of the system, including, without
limitation, a fund balance reasonably anticipated to be sufficient to fund
reasonably anticipated equipment replacement and emergency repairs of the
system.
   (C)   Such rates, fees and charges may, in the discretion of the Township
Board include the following in such amounts or at such rates as determined by
the Township Board:
      (1)   Permit fees in amounts as are reasonably determined to cover the
costs of permit issuance, inspection and enforcement;
      (2)   Connection fees in amounts reasonable determined to be sufficient
to pay some of the capital and/or debt retirement costs of the system;
      (3)   Readiness to serve charges or debt service charges based upon
residential equivalent units, meter size or other methodology as determined by
the township in amounts reasonably determined to be sufficient to pay some of
the capital and/or debt retirement costs of the system and/or all or a portion
of the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement costs of the system;
      (4)   Commodity or usage charges in amounts reasonably determined to be
sufficient to pay some of the capital and/or debt retirement costs of the
system and/or all or a portion of the operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement costs of the system; and
      (5)   Special rates, fees and charges in amounts and on such basis as is
reasonably determined to be sufficient to pay the costs of special services.
   (D)   At least annually the township shall review the rates, fees and
charges and adjust them as necessary to meet the requirements of this section.
   (E)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm
or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.072 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   When system rates, fees and charges are not timely paid, it is
necessary to re-bill, to undertake other procedures required by this
subchapter, to prepare separate notices and accountings and undertake other
tasks that are not needed if they are timely paid. In addition, the other
system users essentially subsidize the non-paying or late paying user’s use of
the system. The system is not established, operated or well-adapted to provide
financing services for its users. Accordingly, charges are made to compensate
the system for the costs incurred due to untimely payments.
   (B)   Bills will be rendered at such intervals as are determined from time
to time by resolution of the Township Board, but not less frequently than
quarterly.
   (C)   Bills shall be due and payable without interest or late fee at such
time after billing as is stated on the bill, provided not less than 15 days
shall be given for such payment after the billing date.
   (D)   Bills not paid by the due date shall bear interest at such rate and be
subject to a rebilling fee as determined by the Township Board.
   (E)   Service, installation, inspection, use and material rates, fees and
charges, including late fees and interest due thereon, shall constitute a lien
on the premises served from the date of such service. The property owner, not
the renter/tenant, is responsible for all water charges, fees and assessments.
The township official or officials in charge of the collection shall annually,
not later than September 1 of each year, certify to the Tax Assessing Officer
of the township for the township in which the property is located the fact and
the amount of the delinquency in payment for water services to the property.
Such lien shall have the same priority and shall be collectible in the same
manner as delinquent ad valorem real property taxes. If the township is
provided with notice in writing, including a copy of the lease of the affected
premises, that a tenant is responsible for the water charge, the Township Board
may require as a condition to rendering water services to such premises a cash
deposit equal to service charges at current rates for three months (one
quarter) as security for the payment of service charges.
   (F)   In addition to the other methods of collection and enforcement
provided in this rule or in law or at equity, the township may, after notice of
its intention to do so and of the opportunity for a hearing to show cause why
it should not occur, have the right to shut-off water service to any premises
for which rates, fees and charges for water service are not paid by the due
date, and such service shall not be re-established until all delinquent
charges, interest, penalties and a turn-on charge, to be specified by the
township, have been paid.
   (G)   In addition to the other methods of collection and enforcement
provided in this rule or in law or at equity, the township shall have the
option of collecting all rates, fees, charges, interest and late fees due
pursuant to this chapter by legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
REVENUES OF THE SYSTEM
§ 51.085 REVENUES OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The revenues of the system are hereby ordered to be set aside, as
collected, and deposited in a bank duly qualified to do business in the state.
   (B)   An account is to be designated Water Receiving Fund, and the revenues
so accounted for in said Fund are pledged for the purpose of the following:
      (1)   Supplies;
      (2)   Legal services;
      (3)   Audit fees;
      (4)   Insurance;
      (5)   Repair and maintenance;
      (6)   Meter equipment;
      (7)   Other expenses pertaining to the water system; and
      (8)   Future expansion of the water system.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
§ 51.100 STATE AND COUNTY PLUMBING CODES.
   This chapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Codes and the Plumbing
Code of the county, but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.101 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The consumer shall indemnify, save harmless and defend the township against
all claims, demands, cost or expense for loss, damage or injury to persons or
property in any manner, directly or indirectly, growing out of the transmission
and use of water by the consumer from water service pipes installed by the
consumer on the consumers premises.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
TOWNSHIP’S LIABILITY EXEMPTION
§ 51.115 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The township shall not be responsible for interruptions of service because
of natural calamities, equipment failures or actions of the system users.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.116 PLUMBING MAINTENANCE AND FAILURE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer that all connected equipment
remain in good working order. No claim or cause of action may be asserted
against the township by reason of the breaking away of any pipe, service cock
or for any other interruption of the water.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.117 SERVICE AND LOCATIONS COSTS.
   The township shall not be liable for any expense incurred by an applicant in
locating mains, services, curb stops and water records.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of up to $100. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The foregoing fines and penalties shall be in addition to the
right of termination of public water service to a violator and the right to
obtain injunctive relief in a court of law.
   (B)   Any person who shall knowingly, during any water emergency, use or
withdraw water from the township water system for any of the purposes
prohibited in §§
51.055 through
51.058, shall be guilty of a civil infraction, and shall be subject to a fine
of not to exceed $25 for each violation and, in addition, if said person
refuses to discontinue such violation, be subject to the discontinuance of
water service during the continuance of such emergency.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017)
APPENDIX A: TABLE OF UNIT FACTORS
Reference # Classification Formula Units
Reference # Classification             Formula            Units
2           Apartment                  .5/unit            units
3           Auto dealer                1+.2/1000'         sq. ft.
5           Plumbing                   1+.1/1000'         sq. ft.
6           Auto repair                1+.5/1000'         sq. ft.
7           Bank                       .25/teller station teller stations
8           Beauty shop                1+.5/booth         booths
9           Barber shop                1+.1/chair         chairs
10          Tanning                    .25/1000'          sq. ft.
11          Car wash (self)            1.25/stall         stalls
12          Car wash (auto)            1.2/stall          stalls
13          Foster care                .27/bed            beds
14          Nursing care               1+.5/bedroom       bedrooms
15          Church                     .25/1000'          sq. ft.
16          Doctor’s office          1/doctor           doctors
17          Dentist                    1.4/dentist        dentists
18          Drug store                 .4/1000'           sq. ft.
19          Fast food                  8                  restaurant
20          Florist                    1.1/1000'          sq. ft.
21          Fraternal organization     1+.25/1000'        sq. ft.
22          Funeral home               1                  each
23          Garden center              1+.5/employee      employees
24          Gas station                .5/hose            hoses
25          Gas with mart              1+.5/1000'         sq. ft.
Reference # Classification             Formula            Units
26          Gift shop                  .75/1000'          sq. ft.
27          Physical therapy           .25/1000'          sq. ft.
28          Physical therapy with pool .25/1000'          sq. ft.
29          Hardware                   1+.1/1000'         sq. ft.
30          Laundromat                 .38/washer         washers
31          Meat/fish mart             2.5/1000’        sq. ft.
32          Motel/hotel                .4/room            rooms
35          Office space               1/6 employ         employees
36          Municipal building         .4/1000'           sq. ft.
37          Newspaper/printer          .5/1000'           sq. ft.
38          Office building            .4/1000'           sq. ft.
39          Party store                .5/1000'           sq. ft.
40          Camp ground                .25/site           sites
41          Post office                1/1000'            sq. ft.
42          Real estate                .5/1000'           sq. ft.
43          Rental hall                .5/1000'           sq. ft.
44          Residence                  1                  each
45          Restaurant                 2.5/1000'          sq. ft.
46          Restaurant plus bar        3.5/1000’        sq. ft.
47          Restrooms                  .27/fixture        fixtures
48          Retail                     .3/2000'           sq. ft.
49          Sporting goods             .5/1000'           sq. ft.
50          Supermarket                .23/1000'          sq. ft.
51          Storage building           .1/1000'           sq. ft.
52          Swimming pool              3/1000’          sq. ft
53          Bar                        4/1000'            sq. ft.
Reference # Classification             Formula            Units
54          Vacant                     1                  1
55          Bakery/coffee shop         1+1/1000'          sq. ft.
56          Bed and breakfast          1+.4/rm.           # of rooms
57          Dog grooming               1/1200'            sq. ft.
 
(Ord. passed 4-4-2017; Ord. passed 9-5-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   DRIVING REGULATIONS
      
72.   USE OF NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAYS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   OPERATION AND PARKING OF VEHICLES FOR AIRPORT PURPOSES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.01   Code, amendments and revisions adopted
   
70.02   References in Code
   
70.03   Notice to be published
Motor Vehicle Code
   
70.15   Adopted by reference
 
   
70.99   Penalty
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.01 CODE, AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages as promulgated
by the Director of the State Department of State Police pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 24.201 to 24.328 and made effective October 30, 2002, and all future
amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated
and effective in this state are incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 3, passed 7-14-1965; Ord. 3A, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 70.02 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages to
a “governmental unit” shall mean the Township of Tuscarora.
(Ord. 3, passed 7-14-1965; Ord. 3A, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 70.03 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The Township Clerk shall publish this subchapter in the manner required by
law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages and the fact that a
complete copy of the code is available to the public at the office of the Clerk
for inspection.
(Ord. 3, passed 7-14-1965; Ord. 3A, passed 11-7-2017)
MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.15 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The state Motor Vehicle Code is hereby adopted by reference as fully as if
set out at length herein.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 3, passed 7-14-1965; Ord. 3A, passed 11-7-2017)
CHAPTER 71: DRIVING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Riding on sidewalks
   
71.02   Riding on private property without permission
   
71.03   Riding prohibited on property
   
71.04   Riding prohibited where posted
   
71.05   Obstruction of safety vision by removal or deposit of snow, ice or
slush prohibited
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any person is roller skating, roller blading, skateboarding, riding
a coaster or scooter, or similar motorized or unmotorized wheeled device, upon
a sidewalk or other paved surface intended for use by pedestrians, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall not approach, overtake
or pass such pedestrian in a reckless or careless manner and shall not pass
such pedestrian, except in single file.
(Ord. 24, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 RIDING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to roller skate, roller blade,
skateboard, riding a coaster or scooter, or similar motorized or unmotorized
wheeled device on private property without first obtaining and carrying on his
or her person the written permission of the owner of such private property to
allow such activity.
(Ord. 24, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 RIDING PROHIBITED ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall use any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, coaster,
scooter, or similar motorized or unmotorized wheeled device on any bench,
table, planter, wall or other fixture located in or along any public roadway,
street, alley, sidewalk, park or municipal parking lot.
(Ord. 24, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RIDING PROHIBITED WHERE POSTED.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs on any publicly
owned parking area, street, sidewalk, parking structure, parking lot or other
public property prohibiting uses of wheeled devices thereon. It is the Chief of
Police’s responsibility to determine if a safety hazard to persons or property
created by congestion of traffic or numbers of people, security needs, control
of disorderly persons, control of excessive numbers of persons using roller
skates, roller blades or skateboards, riding a coaster or scooter or similar
motorized or unmotorized wheeled device to the detriment of the free passage of
vehicle traffic or pedestrians and the control of potential safety hazards to
persons or property. It shall be unlawful to ride any wheeled device on any
such posted parking area, street and sidewalk, parking structure or parking
lot.
(Ord. 24, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OBSTRUCTION OF SAFETY VISION BY REMOVAL OR DEPOSIT OF SNOW, ICE OR
SLUSH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Shall not include the state or a political subdivision of the
state or an employee of the state or a political subdivision of the state
operating within the scope of his or her duties.
      SAFETY VISION. An unobstructed line of sight enabling a driver to travel
upon, enter or exit a roadway in a safe manner.
   (B)   A person shall not remove, or cause to be removed, snow, ice or slush
onto or across a roadway or the shoulder of the roadway in a manner which
obstructs the safety vision of the driver of a motor vehicle other than off-
road vehicles.
   (C)   A person shall not deposit, or cause to be deposited, snow, ice or
slush onto or across a roadway or the shoulder of the roadway in a manner which
obstructs the safety vision of the driver of a motor vehicle.
   (D)   A person shall not deposit, or cause to be deposited, snow, ice or
slush on any roadway or highway.
(M.C.L.A. § 257.677a)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
71.01 through
71.04 is responsible for a civil infraction, with a fine or $50 for first
offense, $100 for second offense and $200 for each subsequent offense.
Restitution for any damages to property or people will also be charged. Said
wheeled device will be impounded by the Township Police Department until
disposition of the case.
(Ord. 24, passed - -)
CHAPTER 72: USE OF NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAYS
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Prohibitions of motor vehicle use
   
72.03   Safe bicycle operation
   
72.04   Prohibition of horse riding
   
72.05   Township policies regulating pathway use
   
72.06   Damage
   
72.07   Non-motorized pathway obstruction
   
72.08   Fishing prohibition
   
72.09   Animals
   
72.10   Vegetation
   
72.11   Irrigation
   
72.12   Construction projects
   
72.13   Cuts or openings in sidewalk or pedestrian pathway
   
72.14   Signs
   
72.15   Exemption
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A device propelled exclusively by human power upon which a person
may ride, having two, three or four wheels arranged in a tandem or tricycle
fashion.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is self-propelled including, but not limited
to, motorized scooters, all terrain vehicles, automobiles, trucks, tractors,
mopeds, snowmobiles, golf carts and Segway personal transporters.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle having a saddle or seat for use of a rider and
designated to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAY. Any public way operated and maintained by the
township or the road authority having jurisdiction, for bicycle and pedestrian
use.
   PERSON. Any person, or any firm, corporation (profit or non-profit), or any
association (incorporated or unincorporated), or any other type of business
entity.
   SIGN. The same meaning as provided in the county zoning ordinance.
   SNOWMOBILE. A motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow or
ice of a type which utilizes sled-type runners or skis, or a revolving belt
tread, or any combination of these or similar means of contact with the surface
upon which is operated.
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved exclusively by
human power.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 72.02 PROHIBITIONS OF MOTOR VEHICLE USE.
   No person shall operate an automobile, truck, tractor, moped, snowmobile,
motorcycle or any other type of motor vehicle or golf cart upon any non-
motorized pathway within the township, except directly to enter or depart from
adjacent property; provided, however, this section shall not prohibit the use
of sidewalks and pedestrian pathways by persons using motorized wheelchairs or
similar devices used to facilitate access and travel by handicapped persons.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 SAFE BICYCLE OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a bicycle on a non-motorized pathway at a speed
greater than what is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
Any person operating a bicycle on a non-motorized pathway shall yield the
right-of-way to motor vehicles that are crossing the non-motorized pathway, and
also shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians who are using or are on the
non-motorized pathway.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PROHIBITION OF HORSE RIDING.
   No person shall ride or walk a horse, or lead a horse, on a non-motorized
pathway or within the designated easement for the non-motorized pathway.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 TOWNSHIP POLICIES REGULATING PATHWAY USE.
   The Township Board may adopt policies for regulating the use of non-
motorized pathways, consistent with the terms of this chapter. Such policies
may include provisions regulating the occurrence and scope of gatherings and
events on, near or associated with a non-motorized pathway.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 72.06 DAMAGE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully or maliciously, or wantonly and without
cause, destroy, injure, mutilate, deface, paint on, write on, alter, remove or
otherwise damage or carry away a non-motorized pathway, on any part thereof, or
any sign, or part thereof, relating thereto.
   (B)   At the township’s option, the township may either repair the damage
caused by a person who violates division (A) above, and such person shall be
responsible for reimbursing the township for such repair work, or
alternatively, the township may require the person who caused the damage to
repair the non-motorized pathway to its prior state within 30 days of the date
of the damage. All such repair work shall be performed in accordance with the
standards of Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT).
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAY OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Parking. No person shall stop, stand or park, or cause to be stopped,
standing or parked, any vehicle, trailer, mobile home, motor home, camper or
boat upon a non-motorized pathway so as to obstruct the free passage of
pedestrians, vehicles or other persons or conveyances.
   (B)   Debris. No person shall deposit or burn, or cause to be deposited or
burned, any leaves, branches, grass, brush or other yard debris upon a non-
motorized pathway, or deposit, or cause to be deposited, any earth, stone,
sand, gravel, trash, rubbish, cans, bottles, broken glass, nails, garbage cans
or any other objects or debris upon a non-motorized pathway or within the
designated easement for the non-motorized pathway.
   (C)   Deposit of ice or snow. No person, in removing snow, ice or slush from
private property, or from public property under his or her control, such as a
driveway, vehicle parking area or approach area, shall dump or deposit, or
cause to be dumped or deposited, such snow, ice or slush, either temporarily or
permanently, on any non-motorized pathway without the prior written permission
of an authorized township official.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 FISHING PROHIBITION.
   No person shall fish or otherwise attempt to catch fish or other aquatic
animals while on a non- motorized pathway, or the appurtenances of a non-
motorized pathway. Appurtenances of a non- motorized pathway shall include, but
are not limited to, any bridges or other structures which touch, adjoin or abut
a non-motorized pathway or within the designated easement for the non-motorized
pathway.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person who owns or exercises any control over an animal shall, if
the animal deposits any fecal matter on any non-motorized pathway or within the
designated easement for the non-motorized pathway, immediately and completely
remove such matter. This section shall not prohibit the presence of animals on
non-motorized pathways, except as otherwise prohibited in §
72.04.
   (B)   Pets must be leashed and under the control of the owner at all times
so as not to interfere with other pathway users.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 VEGETATION.
   No person shall plant any trees, shrubs or other vegetation within the
designated easement for the non-motorized pathway. No person shall allow trees,
shrubs or other vegetation to grow to a size that obscures view or obstructs
passage along a non-motorized pathway. The township reserves the right to
maintain trees and shrubs within the designated easement of the non-motorized
pathway.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 IRRIGATION.
   No person shall leave any garden hose, lawn sprinkler or other irrigation
device or similar implement unattended when such hose, sprinkler, device or
implement is in contact with or runs across or over the surface of a non-
motorized pathway.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
   (A)   If any construction project on lands adjoining a non-motorized pathway
results in damage to the non-motorized pathway, then all such damage shall be
fully repaired and the non-motorized pathway shall be restored to its former
condition within ten days after the damage occurs, unless otherwise authorized
by the township; provided, however, that if weather conditions prevent full
restoration of the non-motorized pathway within such ten-day period, then the
non-motorized pathway shall be temporarily patched and restored so as to permit
reasonable use by bicycles, skates and pedestrians, and full repair and
restoration shall then be completed as soon as weather permits.
   (B)   An occupancy permit shall not be granted under the county zoning
ordinance or building code for any building or structure unless and until any
non-motorized pathway damaged in connection with the construction of such
building or structure has been fully repaired and restored to its former
condition; provided, however, that if weather conditions then prevent full
repair and restoration of the non-motorized pathway, an occupancy permit may be
granted if:
      (1)   The non-motorized pathway has been temporarily patched and restored
so as to permit reasonable use by bicycles and pedestrians; and
      (2)   The township is provided with adequate financial security in the
form of a cash deposit, letter of credit or performance bond, to guarantee full
repair or restoration of the non-motorized pathway as soon as weather permits.
   (C) Repair of all damage, as required by this section, shall be performed in
compliance with the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 CUTS OR OPENINGS IN SIDEWALK OR PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY.
   (A)   All persons shall complete a non-motorized pathway opening permit if
it is necessary to make a cut or opening in a non-motorized pathway. Such cut
or opening shall not be made until a non-motorized pathway opening permit has
been completed and returned to the State Department of Transportation, with
payment of any required fee.
   (B)   If an emergency requires an immediate utility cut or opening to be
made, the State Department of Transportation shall be notified, the permit
completed and the applicable fee paid on the next business day during which the
MDOT office is open.
   (C)   When the work within a cut or opening is completed, the cut or opening
shall be promptly compacted and restored as required in accordance with the
trail standards set by the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall suspend any sign, banner, printed leaflet or similar
object above a non-motorized pathway or within the designated easement for the
non-motorized pathway, nor shall any person tape or affix any sign, banner,
printed leaflet or similar object to a non-motorized pathway or within the
designated easement for the non-motorized pathway without the prior written
approval of the township official authorized by ordinance or township policy to
grant such approval.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not prohibit the township from
installing and maintaining signs and markers pertaining to the non-motorized
pathway or painting words or markings on the pathway if necessary for the
proper use of the pathway or for public safety purposes.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 EXEMPTION.
   This section shall not apply to work being done by an authorized township
official or employee on a non-motorized pathway and this chapter shall not be
construed to prohibit the township, or any officer, employee or agent thereof,
from exercising all reasonable and necessary governmental powers with respect
to the use, maintenance and repair of non-motorized pathways.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fine shall not be less than $100, nor more than $500 for the first offense,
and not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 for a subsequent offense, in the
discretion of the court, and in addition to all other costs, damages, expenses
and actual attorney fees incurred by the township in enforcing the chapter. For
purpose of this section, a SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of this chapter
committed with respect to a separate incident by the same person within 12
months after a previous violation of the chapter for which such person admitted
responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible. Each day the violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The following persons are authorized to issue municipal civil
infraction citations for violation of provisions of this chapter, if such
person or any of them have reasonable cause to believe that a violation or
infraction has occurred, based on personal observation or on the report of a
person who has allegedly witnessed the violation or infraction:
      (1)   The Township Supervisor; and
      (2)   The Township Police Department.
   (C)   If a citation for violation of this chapter is based solely upon the
complaint of a person who allegedly witnessed the violation, and not upon the
personal observation of any of the persons authorized to issue municipal civil
infraction citations hereunder, then such citation shall be approved in writing
by the Township Supervisor prior to its issuance.
   (D)   Municipal civil infraction citations for violations of this chapter
shall be served upon the alleged violator as provided by law and township
ordinance.
   (E)   The issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation shall not be an
exclusive remedy, but may be undertaken by the township in addition to other
means of enforcement, as provided by law, including, but not limited to, the
seeking of injunctive and other relief.
(Ord. 30, passed 2-3-2015)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking of Vehicles for Sale
   
73.01   Parking of vehicles for sale prohibited
   
73.02   Exemption
 
   
73.99   Penalty
PARKING OF VEHICLES FOR SALE
§ 73.01 PARKING OF VEHICLES FOR SALE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer to sell on property
not owned by such person, firm or corporation any motor vehicle, boat, trailer,
snowmobile, mobile home, all-terrain vehicle or other commodity of any nature
without first securing written permission from the owner of such property.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer to sell any motor
vehicle, boat, trailer, snowmobile, mobile home, all-terrain vehicle or other
commodity of any nature on the public right-of- way of the Straits Highway from
M-68 to the Indian River Bridge nor on any township property.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-12-1986; Ord. 2A, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 EXEMPTION.
   The prohibition set forth in §
73.01 shall not apply to the temporary parking of motor vehicles in connection
to the private residences adjacent to Straits Highway.
(Ord. 2A, passed - -)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.   
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of §
73.01 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment for 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2, passed 8-12-1986)
CHAPTER 74: OPERATION AND PARKING OF VEHICLES FOR AIRPORT PURPOSES
Section
   
74.01   Driving of vehicles
   
74.02   Reckless driving
   
74.03   Parking of vehicles
   
74.04   Operation of vehicles
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DRIVING OF VEHICLES.
   No power-driven vehicle shall be driven on any land, including public foot
paths, owned by this township and used for the operation of an airport except:
   (A)   On roadways and areas reserved for parking; and
   (B)   Vehicles supplying service facilities to airplanes using said airport.
(Ord. 10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a power-driven vehicle upon property of this
township used for an airport contrary to the provisions of the chapter in
willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safeties of others or without due
caution and circumspection and at a speed or in manner so as to endanger or be
likely to endanger any person or property shall be guilty of reckless driving.
(Ord. 10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon lands owned by this township
and utilized for airport purposes except in areas designated for parking.
(Ord. 10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   Any person who operates any vehicle upon land owned by this township and
utilized for an airport except on the roadways or parks a vehicle in areas not
reserved for parking shall be guilty or a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment of
90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 10, passed - -)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow and ice deposits
SCHEDULE I. SNOW AND ICE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying any premises within the township between
M-68 East and Barbara Street to the Indian River, or having the custody or
control of any such premises shall plow, shovel, brush, move, deposit or pile
up any snow or ice from any such premises upon any sidewalk, sidewalk space or
alley, or upon the part of any public street between the sidewalk or sidewalk
spaces therein, which is customarily used or suitable for use by vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, or upon any other public space, fire hydrant or other fire
control device, or suffer or permit any snow or ice from any such premises to
be plowed, shoveled, brushed, moved, deposited or piled up upon any such area.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this schedule shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for 90 days, or both,
in the discretion of the court. Property owners who fail to comply will be
billed for snow removal by the township in addition to court sentencing.
(Ord. 5, passed 11-11-1986)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   SANITARY CODE
      
91.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   CEMETERIES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: SANITARY CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Water supply
   
90.03   Sewage disposal
   
90.04   Garbage and rubbish disposal
   
90.05   Public health nuisance
   
90.06   Plats and subdivision
   
90.07   Enforcement provisions
Blight
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Determination
   
90.22   Storage or accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, junk vehicles and
abandoned vehicles
   
90.23   Blighted structures
   
90.24   Storage or accumulation of building materials
   
90.25   Removal of junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, blighted
structures, building materials, trash and rubbish
   
90.26   Lien for costs of removal; collection
   
90.27   Citations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. Approved basement is any basement with walls and floor constructed
of concrete or equivalent, reasonably water-tight, properly drained and in
ordinary daily use.
   DWELLING. Any house, building, structure, tent, shelter, trailer or vehicle
or portion thereof which is occupied in whole or in part as a home, residence,
living or sleeping place for one or more human beings. It shall include any
part of any building or its premises used as a place of residence, living or
sleeping place for one or more beings. It shall include any part of any
building or its premises used as a place or residence or habitation or for
sleeping purposes by any person, and which are used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes which arise from the use, preparation
or storage of food for human consumption.
   PERSON. Person, persons, partnership, firm or corporation responsible for
the ownership or operation of a premises.
   PREMISES. Any dwelling, building or other place where human beings reside,
are employed or congregate.
   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. Any unwholesome, offensive, obnoxious or filthy
condition that may be injurious to the health or safety of others. PUBLIC
HEALTH NUISANCES shall also include such conditions as are conductive to
harborage or feeding of rodents or may be conductive to the breeding of flies.
   RUBBISH. Combustible or noncombustible waste material except garbage.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight receptacle having an inlet and outlet receiving
liquid sewage and so designed to permit the separation of solids in suspension
from such wastes and to permit such retained solids to undergo decomposition
therein.
   SEWAGE. Includes the liquid wastes from all buildings and/or wastes from
sink, lavatory, bath tub, shower and laundry.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit which carries sewage, or into which sewage may
back up.
   SPRING. Any uncased water supply depending upon the natural flow of water
from the ground.
   SUCTION LINE. A water suction line is any closed conduit carrying or
intended to carry water to the inlet side of a pump.
   WELL. The pipe or conduit installed in the ground for the purpose of
providing a method of collection of ground water and transmission of the same
above the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965)
§ 90.02 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Location. All wells, springs, suction lines and other drinking water
supplies shall be located at least 50 feet and in the case of public or
commercial places at least 75 feet, from any seepage pit, cesspool, privy,
septic tank, sub-surface disposal system, county drain or other source of
contamination. All wells shall be located so as to be protected from flooding
and the area immediately adjacent to the well shall be graded to drain surface
water away from the well. No well, water suction line or other water structure
shall be located within ten feet of any sewer. All sewers within the ten- to
50-foot area of the casing or suction line of a well used at a public or
commercial place, shall be constructed of cast iron with leaded joints or other
material and joints which may be approved by the State Department of Health.
   (B)   Well construction. All wells shall be constructed and protected in
compliance with State Department of Health water supply standards.
   (C)   Cross-connection. There shall be no physical connection or provisions
for such connections between water supply systems that are safe for domestic
use and those that are unsafe or may become unsafe for such use.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Construction and maintenance. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct or maintain any premises which is not equipped with adequate
facilities for the disposal of sewage in a sanitary manner. All facilities
shall be constructed in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
Under no conditions may the sewage from an existing or hereafter constructed
premises be deposited on the surface of the ground, into roadside ditches or
watercourses.
   (B)   Privies. All privies and other toilet devices shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with the regulations adopted by the State Council of
Health June 6, 1940, entitled, “A Regulation Pertaining to the Construction and
Maintenance of Outhouses and to Safeguard the Public Health by Preventing the
Spread of Disease and Existing of Contamination in Accordance with Public Act
No. 273 of 1939” and amendments thereto. No privy shall hereafter be
constructed on or moved to any premises where the service of a publicly
operated sewage system is accessible.
   (C)   Connection to public service. All flush toilets, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers and laundry drains hereafter constructed shall be connected
with said publicly operated sewage system.
   (D)   Septic tanks.
      (1)   Location. No portion or part of any sewage disposal system shall be
located within 50 feet, or in the case of public or commercial places 75 feet,
of any well, spring or other drinking water supply, or within ten feet of any
lot line, or within 18 feet of any watercourse. All septic tanks shall be at
least five feet from footings or foundations and so located as to be accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Capacity. Every septic tank shall have at least the capacity of the
average volume of water flowing into it during a 24-hour period but in no case
less than 750 gallons.
 
Table Showing Minimum Capacities for Septic Tanks
Number of Bedrooms                    Minimum Liquid Capacity (Gallons)
2 or less                             750
3 or 4                                1,000
Each additional bedroom beyond 4, add 250
Note: The capacities in this table provide for the plumbing fixtures and
appliances used in a single- family residence including an automatic washer,
mechanical garbage grinder and dishwasher
 
      (3)   Construction. Every septic tank shall be constructed in a
workmanlike manner of materials not subject to corrosion or decay, shall be of
water-tight construction and shall be provided with openings and covers to
permit inspection and cleaning. The outlet shall be two inches below the inlet,
and so designed so as to draw off the liquid from the mid third of the liquid
depth, and prevent the escape of floating or settled solids. The inlet shall be
so designed so as to permit gas above the liquid level to pass through the
inlet line and out the vent pipe serving the sewer leading to the tank. The
septic tank shall have at least 48 inches of liquid depth, shall be at least
twice but not more than three times longer than the width, shall have at least
eight inches of air space between the liquid level and the cover.
      (4)   Dosing chambers. The Health Officer may require dosing tanks
provided with automatic siphons or pumps of a type approved by the State
Department of Health on installations where the capacity of the tank is over
2,000 gallons.
      (5)   Disposal field.
         (a)   1.   The tile lines shall be laid on a grade of not more than
two inches per 100 feet, and parallel lines shall be at least four feet apart.
            2.   Tile shall be laid in trenches not less than 18 inches in
width except where approval by the Health Officer is given to install a filter
bed and then not less than 36 inches apart. Tile shall be laid on at least four
inches of gravel and be covered with a depth of at least two inches. The tile
lines of the disposal field shall have a capacity of at least one-fourth of the
tank, or a minimum total of not less than 200 feet or four-inch tile, or more
if percolation tests indicate need in the case of adverse soil conditions as
follows:
 
Soil Perk Test Minimum Drainage Area 3 Bedrooms of less Time
Course sand or gravel, 5 min. or less 200 sq. ft.
Pine sand or loam, 6—15 min.        300 sq. ft.
Sandy clay, 15—30 min.              450 sq. ft.
Clay, 30—60 min.                    600 sq. ft.
 
         (b)   Tile shall be laid to a uniform grade, shall have one-fourth
inch space between tiles and space shall be covered with tar paper. Tile field
shall be at least eight inches but not more than 20 inches below the finish
grade. Filter material shall be washed gravel one-half inch to one and one-half
inch in size. No dry wells, open sand filters, under drains or any other method
of disposal of septic tank effluent shall be installed without the written
approval and under the direction of the Health Officer.
   (E)   Sewer. Whenever the Health Officer shall determine that improperly
treated sewage is flowing from the outlet of any public or private drain of
unknown course and origin, he or she may issue public notices requiring persons
owning premises from which such sewage originates, to connect such sewage flow
to a publicly operated sewage system, if available, or in the absence thereof
to comply with provisions of divisions (C) and (D) above. Public notice shall
consist of the posting of at least five conspicuous notices in the probable
area served by said drain. After not less than 30 days following posting of the
notices, the Health Officer, with the approval of the County Health Committee
and the County Drain Commissioner may plug or cause to be plugged the outlet of
said drain, until such time as the sources of the sewage have been located.
Owners of properties known to be discharging improperly treated sewage in any
drain for which notice mentioned above have been posted, shall be given written
notices to make necessary corrections within the time allowed by the posted
notices. Failure to comply shall be considered a violation of these
regulations.
   (F)   Existing installation. The Health Officer shall be empowered to
condemn any existing sewage disposal system where the effluent is exposed to
the surface or is permitted to drain on or to the surface of the ground or into
any lake, river or stream, or where the seepage of effluent therefrom may
endanger the public or private nuisance is created by a system improperly
constructed or maintained. It shall be the duty of owner to cause the system to
comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Garbage disposal. The owner or agent of all multiple dwellings and
occupants of all private and two-family dwellings shall provide for said
dwellings, keep clean and place proper water-tight metal containers with tight-
fitting covers for the purpose of storing all garbage. No person shall
transport garbage or rubbish upon any street, alley, road, highway in any
vehicle unless said vehicle be so constructed or maintained so as to prevent
the dropping, spilling, littering of the contents therefrom.
   (B)   Garbage and rubbish disposal site. All garbage and rubbish disposed of
on public property shall be on sites approved for such use by the Health
Committee of the Board of Supervisors of each county. Approval shall be in
writing and shall be a matter of record. Whenever any person shall deposit
garbage or rubbish on private property other than his or her own, he or she
shall have written permission from the owner.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   Nuisance on private property. Whenever any nuisance source of filth or
sickness shall be found on private property, the Health Officer shall order the
owner or occupant thereof, at his or her own expense, to remove or abate the
same within a specified period of time, but not less than 24 hours.
   (B)   Duty of Health Officer. It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to
examine into all nuisances, sources of filth and cause of sickness that may in
his or her opinion be injurious to the health of the inhabitants.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PLATS AND SUBDIVISION.
   All proposed plats and subdivisions shall have the approval of the Health
Department prior to the acceptance of the plat or subdivision by the township,
village or city, such approval to be based upon the suitability of the proposed
area for private sewage disposal, water supply and drainage. Any tests
necessary for the determination of the suitability of the area for platting
shall be conducted by persons authorized to do so by the Health Department.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All premises affected by these regulations shall be subject to
inspection by the Health Officer and the Health Officer may collect such
samples as he or she deems necessary for the enforcement of these regulations.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall have the reasonable right to enter upon any
premises for the purpose of inspecting said premises in the discharge of his or
her duty, providing, however, that said inspection shall be made at reasonable
hours and reasonable times.
   (C)   In the event admission to the premises is denied by the person
lawfully in possession thereof, the Health Officer or his or her duly
authorized representative shall make application to the County Prosecutor, who
shall take the appropriate legal steps to secure admission to the premises.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965)
BLIGHT
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES. Includes, without limitation, any motor vehicle or
motorized equipment which has remained on private property for a period of 48
continuous hours, or more, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property, or for a period of 48 continuous hours or more after the consent of
the owner or occupant of the property has been revoked.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE. Includes, without limitation, any dwelling, garage or
outbuilding, or any factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse or any
other structure or part of a structure which, because of fire, wind or other
natural disaster, age or physical deterioration is no longer habitable as a
dwelling, nor useful for the purpose for which it may have been intended.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Includes, without limitation, lumber, brick, concrete or
cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating
ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete, cement, nails, screws or any
other materials used in constructing any structure.
   JUNK. Includes, without limitation, unused, damaged or deteriorated
machinery or equipment, parts of machinery or equipment or motor vehicles,
broken or unusable furniture, unused stoves, refrigerators or other appliances,
remnants of wood, metal or any other cast-off material of any kind, whether or
not the same could be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK VEHICLES. Includes, without limitation, any motor vehicle or motorized
equipment, with the exception of unlicensed farm vehicles and snow removal
vehicles, which is not licensed for use upon the highways of the state for a
period in excess of 60 days and shall also include, whether licensed or not,
any motor vehicle or motorized equipment which is inoperable for any reason for
a period in excess of 60 days; provided that there is excepted from this
definition unlicensed but operative motor vehicles or motorized equipment which
are kept as the stock in trade of a regularly licensed dealer of new or used
automobiles or other motorized vehicles or equipment; provided, further, that
the time limit such vehicles may remain upon the premises of a motor vehicle
repair garage shall be a period of 120 days rather than 60 days, with extension
of additional 30-day periods upon presentation to the enforcing officer of
written proof the offending vehicle is involved in insurance claims litigation
or a similar matter and additional time is required for settlement before a
vehicle can be moved.
   OPERABLE. Defined pursuant to Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949,
as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923.
   PERSON. Includes all natural persons, firms, co-partnerships, corporations
and other entities of any form, and all associations of natural persons
incorporated or unincorporated, whether acting by themselves, or by a servant,
agent or employee. All PERSONS who violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter, whether as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, servant or employee
shall, except as herein otherwise provided, be equally liable as principals.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. Includes any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
classified.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996)
§ 90.21 DETERMINATION.
   It is hereby determined that the storage or accumulation of trash, rubbish,
junk, junk vehicles and building materials and the maintenance of blighted
structures, upon private property within the township in the manner proscribed
in this subchapter tends to result in blighted and deteriorated neighborhoods,
the impairment of property values, the exposure of the land, waters and air to
hazardous substances, the exposure of persons, especially children, to personal
injury, the spread of vermin and disease, the increase in criminal activity and
the impairment of aesthetic values and therefore is contrary to the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the citizens and property of the
township.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 STORAGE OR ACCUMULATION OF TRASH, RUBBISH, JUNK, JUNK VEHICLES AND
ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, or to permit the storage or
accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, junk vehicles or abandoned vehicles on
private property in the township except within a completely enclosed building
or upon premises for which a special land use permit for the operation of a
junkyard has been obtained pursuant to county zoning Ord. 200, as may be from
time to time amended, and which otherwise complies with the provision of said
Ord. 200, including without limitation, the provisions in § 3.6 thereof.
Nothing in this section, however, shall prohibit the storage of trash or
rubbish in sealed containers in such a manner as not to create a nuisance for a
period not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 BLIGHTED STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted or
vacant structure, dwelling, mobile home, trailer, garage, out-building,
factory, ship, store, or warehouse unless the same is kept securely locked, the
windows kept glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent
entrance thereto by unauthorized persons or unless such structure is in the
course of construction in accordance with a valid building permit issued by the
County Construction Code/Zoning Department, and unless such construction is
completed within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 STORAGE OR ACCUMULATION OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage or
accumulation of building materials on any private property except in a
completely enclosed building, or except where such building materials are part
of the raw materials or stock in trade of a business located on property for
which the operation of such business is either a permitted use or a use
approved by issuance of a special use permit, pursuant to county zoning Ord.
200, as may be from time to time amended, or except when such materials are
being used in the construction of a structure on the property in accordance
with a valid building permit issued by the County Construction Code/Zoning
Department and unless such construction is completed within a reasonable time
after the issuance of such permit.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 REMOVAL OF JUNK, JUNK VEHICLES, ABANDONED VEHICLES, BLIGHTED
STRUCTURES, BUILDING MATERIALS, TRASH AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   The Township Supervisor, Clerk or Chief of Police or their duly
authorized representatives may enter the property or premises to remove or
cause to be removed any junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, blighted
structures, building materials, trash or rubbish stored or maintained in
violation of this subchapter; provided that the owner or occupant of such
property is personally served in writing if occupied, or may be posted in a
conspicuous place upon vacant or unoccupied property, of:
      (1)   The intention to remove the property within 30 days if the problem
is not corrected; and
      (2)   Notice that an owner or occupant may request a hearing within five
days of receipt of the notice before the Township Board to discuss the blight
determination and removal notice.
   (B)   If after a hearing the Board votes to affirm the blight determination,
or if an owner or occupant fails to appear or fails to request a hearing, the
such junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, blighted structures, building
materials, trash or rubbish stored in violation of this subchapter shall be
removed and disposed of or sold. The proceeds of the sale of the personal
property shall be applied in payment of the costs of the action and abatement,
and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the persons entitled thereto.
   (C)   Where there exists a determination of blight that reasonably creates
an imminent threat or risk to health or safety of the public, then the Township
Supervisor, Clerk or Chief of Police or their duly authorized representatives
may enter the property to immediately remove or cause to be removed source of
the threat. The phrase IMMINENT THREAT means, but is not limited to,
environment or toxic exposure to natural resources, air or water sources or
attractive nuisances that pose as inherently dangerous condition to children.
   (D)   Such removal by the designated enforcement official is authorized
irrespective of whether municipal civil infraction proceedings are initiated as
authorized by this subchapter and shall not excuse or relieve any person of the
obligation imposed by this subchapter to keep his or her property free from
storage or accumulation of junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, blighted
structures, building materials, trash or rubbish not from the civil infraction
sanctions authorized in this subchapter. The taking, removal and disposing of
any property of the owner or occupant by any officer or agent directed to
execute the same is not a trespass, nor shall such officer be liable either
civilly or criminally therefor. Township officers, agents, employees or
independent contractors working on behalf of the township shall be granted
governmental immunity to applicable laws.
   (E)   (1)   An owner or occupant may file an appeal within 14 days after
entry of the Board decision to the Circuit Court. An appeal to the circuit
court shall be a review by the court of the certified record provided by the
Board hearing. Once an appeal is filed, the Court may stay the decision and any
sanctions or costs imposed.
      (2)   The Court, as appropriate, may affirm, reverse or modify the
decision.
      (3)   The Court shall hold unlawful and set aside a decision of the Board
if substantial rights of an alleged violator have been prejudiced because the
decision is any of the following:
         (a)   In violation of the constitution or statute, charter or
ordinance;
         (b)   In excess of the authority or jurisdiction of the agency as
conferred by the statute, charter or ordinance;
         (c)   Made upon unlawful procedure resulting in material prejudice to
a party;
         (d)   Not supported by competent, material and substantial evidence on
the whole record;
         (e)   Arbitrary, capricious or clearly as abuse or unwarranted
exercise of discretion; or
         (f)   Affected by other substantial and material error of law.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996)
§ 90.26 LIEN FOR COSTS OF REMOVAL; COLLECTION.
   Any and all costs incurred by the township, township officials or their
representative in removing or causing to be removed any junk, junk vehicles,
abandoned vehicles, blighted structures, building materials, trash or rubbish
pursuant to this subchapter, shall be reimbursed by the owner of the property
from which the junk, junk vehicles, abandoned vehicles, blighted structures,
building materials, trash or rubbish was removed. All such costs shall be
billed by the township to the property owner and if not paid within 30 days of
the date of such bill, the township shall have a lien against the property in
the amount of such bill to the extent provided by M.C.L.A. §§ 125.539 et seq.,
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8727 et seq. and all other applicable laws. The township may
also maintain an action to recover such costs in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996)
§ 90.27 CITATIONS.
   The Township Supervisor, Clerk or Chief of Police, or their duly authorized
representative may issue and serve a municipal civil infraction citation
pursuant to the provisions of Act 12 of the Public Acts of 1994, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 600.8701 et seq., as amended to any person he or she has reasonable cause to
believe has violated or failed to comply with the provision of this subchapter.
Municipal civil infraction citations issued under this subchapter shall be
substantially in the form required by M.C.L.A. § 600.8709.
(Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person shall violate the provisions of §§ 90.01 through
90.07 or any part thereof he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
on conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding the sum of
$100 or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
   (C)   Any violation of, or any failure to comply with, the provision of §§
90.20 through
90.27 shall be deemed a municipal civil infraction, subject to all of the
provision of Act 12 of the Public Acts of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et
seq., as amended, including a civil fine up to $500, plus costs, actual damages
and expenses (including actual attorney fees and expenses), as well as the
issuance of equitable writs and orders pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 600.8302. Each
day that a violation of §§ 90.20 through 90.27 is continued or permitted to
exist without compliance shall constitute a separate infraction, separately
sanctionable as set forth above.
(Ord. 6, eff. 9-1-1965; Ord. 19 passed 3-5-1996)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances Generally
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Illustrative enumeration
   
91.03   Prohibited
   
91.04   Notice to abate
   
91.05   Contents of notice
   
91.06   Service of notice
   
91.07   Abatement by township
   
91.08   Emergency abatement by township
   
91.09   Township’s costs declared lien; collection
Noise
   
91.20   Title
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Anti-noise regulations
   
91.23   Anti-noise regulations based upon dB(A) criteria
   
91.24   Public nuisance regulations
Tall Grass and Weeds
   
91.40   Title and applicable seasons
   
91.41   Purpose
   
91.42   Definitions
   
91.43   Land subject to regulations
   
91.44   Duty to cut grass
   
91.45   Unlawful acts
   
91.46   Enforcement
   
91.47   Declaration of nuisance
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety or
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.02 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
providing, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things;
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and
other vermin;
   (D)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
   (E)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises;
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   (G)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
   (I)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained;
   (J)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground; and
   (K)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the township, the Supervisor or
some other duly designated officer of the township shall give five days’
written notice to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such
nuisance exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.05 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall contain:
   (A)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated
time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
   (C)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
   (D)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
   (E)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the township will abate
the nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.06 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal process
may be served pursuant to law.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.07 ABATEMENT BY TOWNSHIP.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was
served pursuant to the provision of this subchapter to abate the same, the
Supervisor and or other duly designated officer of the township shall proceed
to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the
abatement thereof.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.08 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT BY TOWNSHIP.
   When, in the opinion of the Supervisor or other duly designated officer,
there is actual and immediate danger to the public or occupants of a particular
premises caused by a nuisance on such premises, the Supervisor or duly
designated officer is hereby authorized and empowered, without any notice or
hearing, to order and require such premises to be vacated. The Supervisor or
other duly designated officer shall immediately post the premises, warning of
the dangerous condition and shall then abate such nuisance and prepare a
statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
§ 91.09 TOWNSHIP’S COSTS DECLARED LIEN; COLLECTION.
   Any and all costs incurred by the township in the abatement of a nuisance
under the provision of this subchapter shall constitute a lien against the
property upon which such nuisance existed which lien shall be filed, proven and
collected as provided for by law for property taxes. Such lien shall be notice
to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest at the
legal rate thereafter until satisfied.
(Ord. 11, passed 7-7-1987)
NOISE
§ 91.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Tuscarora Township Anti-
Noise and Public Nuisance Ordinance”.
(Ord. 4, passed 6-2-1998)
§ 91.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   dB(A). The sound pressure level in decibels measured on the “A” scale of a
standard sound level meter having characteristics defined by the American
National Standards Institute, Publication ANSI s1.4-1971.
   DECIBEL. A unit used to express the magnitude of sound pressure and sound
intensity. The difference in DECIBELS between two sound pressures is 20 times
the common logarithm of their ratio. In sound press measurements, the sound
pressure level of a given sound is defined to be 20 time the common logarithm
of the ratio of that sound pressure to a reference pressure of 2 x 10-5N/m2
(Newtons per meter squared). As an example of the effect of this formula, a
three decibel change in the sound pressure level corresponds to a doubling or
halving of the sound intensity, and a ten decibel change corresponds to a ten-
fold increase or decrease to one-tenth the former intensity.
(Ord. 4, passed 6-2-1998)
§ 91.22 ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General regulation. No person, firm or corporation shall cause or
create any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud noise or disturbance, injurious
to the health, peace or quiet of the residents and property owners of the
township.
   (B)   Specific violations. The following noises and disturbances are hereby
declared to be a violation of this subchapter; provided, however, that the
specification of the same is not thereby to be construed to exclude other
violations of this subchapter not specifically enumerated.
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television or other
electronic or mechanical sound-producing device including any musical
instrument in such a manner or with such volume as to unreasonably upset or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, hooting or singing on the public streets between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school, church, hospital or court;
       (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl, which emanates frequent
or extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort or repose
of any person in the vicinity; such as allowing or permitting any dog to bark
repeatedly in an area where such barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property;
      (5)   The operation of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out
of repair or so loaded or constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other unreasonable noise including the noise resulting
from exhaust, which is clearly audible from nearby properties and unreasonably
disturbing to the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons. The modification
of any noise abatement device on any motor vehicle or engine, or the failure to
maintain the same so that the noise emitted by such vehicle or engine is
increased above that emitted by such vehicle as originally manufactured shall
be in violation of this section;
      (6)   The sounding of any horn or other device on any motor vehicle
unless necessary to operate said vehicle safely or as required by the State
Motor Vehicle Code;
      (7)   The discharging outside of any enclosed building of the exhaust of
any steam engine, internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat
engine except through a muffler or other similar device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises. The modification of any noise abatement
device on any motor vehicle or engine, or the failure to maintain same so the
noise emitted by such vehicle or engine is increased above that emitted by such
vehicle as originally manufactured shall be in violation of this section;
      (8)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building or premises in any part of the township and including the streets and
highways, in such a manner as to emanate noise or disturbance unreasonably
annoying to other persons, other than between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
sundown on any day, except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety;
      (9)   The creation of a loud or excessive noise unreasonably disturbing
to other persons in the vicinity in connection with the operation, loading or
unloading of any vehicle, trailer or other carrier or in connection with the
repairing of any such vehicle in or near residential areas;
      (10)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale, display or
other commercial purpose which, by the creation of such noise, shall be
unreasonably disturbing to other persons in the vicinity;
      (11)   The operation of any loudspeaker or other sound amplifying device
upon any vehicle on the streets of the township with the purpose of
advertising, where such vehicle, speaker or sound amplifying device emits loud
and raucous noises easily heard from nearby adjoining residential property;
      (12)   The operation of any machinery, equipment or mechanical device so
as to emit unreasonably loud noise which is disturbing to the quiet, comfort or
repose of any person; and
      (13)   The operation of any race track, proving ground, testing area or
obstacle course for motor vehicles, motorcycles, boats, racers, automobiles or
vehicles of any kind or nature in any area of the township where the noise
emanating therefrom would be unreasonably disturbing and upsetting to other
persons in the vicinity. Under no circumstances shall any race track, proving
ground, testing area or obstacle course operate after 11:00 p.m. on any
evening.
   (C)   Exceptions. None of the prohibitions herinbefore enumerated shall
apply to the following:
      (1)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle
while engaged in necessary emergency activities;
      (2)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways or other
property by or on behalf of the state, township or the county, between sundown
and 6:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety and convenience render it
impossible to perform such work during other hours;
      (3)   Warning devices emitting sound for warning purposes as authorized
by law; and
      (4)   Commercial and non-profit organizations can ask the township for a
special permit to extend hours of the daytime decimal readings two hours (until
12:00 midnight) for up to four nights a year; permit requests to be given to
the Chief of Police 14 days in advance.
(Ord. 4B, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 4, passed 6-2-1998; Ord. 4C, passed 5-6-2003)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS BASED UPON dB(A) CRITERIA.
   In order to regulate and prove violations occurring under §
91.22, any noise in excess of the maximum decibel limits according to the
regulations stated below is deemed to be in violation of this subchapter.
   (A)   Regulations for decibel measurement of noise originating from private
properties.
      (1)   Noise radiating from all properties or buildings, as measured a the
boundaries of the property, which is in excess of the dB(A) established for the
districts and times herewith listed shall constitute prima facia evidence that
such noise unreasonably disturbs the comfort, quiet and repose of persons in
the area and is therefore in violation of this subchapter. Violations shall
exist when the source or sources of noise are identifiable and the levels
emanating from the source or sources exceed the following limitations. As an
example, such noise shall include that emitting from the production,
processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repairing and manufacturing of
materials, good or products, including vehicles.
 
Zoning Districts
Agricultural limitations 74 dB(A) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                         79 dB(A) between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
Commercial limitations   74 dB(A) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                         79 dB(A) between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
Residential limitations  70 dB(A) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                         75 dB(A) between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
 
      (2)   Harmonic or pure tones and periodic or repetitive impulse sound
shall be in violation when such sounds are at a sound level of 5 dB(A) less
than those listed above.
      (3)   Where property is partly in two zoning districts or adjoins the
boundary of a zoning district, the dB(A) levels of the zoning district of the
property where the noise is emanating shall control.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following exceptions shall apply to these regulations
under division (A) above.
      (1)   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels specified for industrial districts as along as a valid building
permit had been issued and is currently in effect.
      (2)   Noises occurring between 6:00 a.m. and sundown caused by home or
building repairs or from maintenance of grounds are excluded, provided such
noise does not exceed the limitations specified in division (A) above by more
than 20 dB(A).
      (3)   Noises emanating from the discharge of firearms are excluded,
providing the discharge of the firearms was authorized under state law and all
local ordinances.
      (4)   Any commercial, agricultural or industrial use of property which
exists now or in the future as a legal nonconforming use (as defined in the
county zoning ordinance) in a higher zoning classification shall be allowed to
emit noise in excess of these limitations for the particular zoning
classification where such use is located, providing that such noise does not
exceed either of the following limitations:
         (a)   The noise level emitted by such use at the time it became a
legal nonconforming use as a result of the enactment of an amendment of the
township zoning ordinance if available; or
         (b)   The limitations contained herein are based upon such a use being
located in the highest zoning district (either commercial and agricultural or
industrial) where such a use is specifically allowed as a permissible use.
   (C)   Regulations for decibel measurement of motor driven vehicles on public
roads.
      (1)   All noise emitted from motor driven vehicles upon public roads
shall be measured whenever possible at a distance of at least 50 feet (or 15
meters) from a noise source located within the public right-of-way.
      (2)   If measurement at 50 feet (15 meters) is not feasible, measurement
may be made at 25 feet (seven and one-half meters) and if this is done, six dB
(A) shall be added to the limits provided below.
      (3)   All such noises in excess of the dB(A) as provided herein shall be
prima facie evidence that such noise unreasonably disturbs the comfort, quiet
and repose of persons in the area and is therefore in violation of this
subchapter.
 
                                                    dB(A) Maximum Limitation
Motorcycles, snowmobiles and mini-bikes: any weight 82 dB(A)
Passenger cars: any weight                          77 dB(A)
Trucks and buses: weight: over 10,000 lbs. gross    82dB(A)
weight
Trucks and buses: weight: under 10,000 lbs. gross   77 dB(A)
weight
All other self-propelled motor vehicles: any weight 77dB(A)
 
   (D)   Measurement. Measurement of noise-all measurements of dB(A) according
to divisions (A) and (C) above shall be made by using a sound level meter of
standard design and operated on the “A” weight scale, with “slow” meter
response.
(Ord. 4, passed 6-2-1998)
§ 91.24 PUBLIC NUISANCE REGULATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall create, cause or maintain any public
nuisance within the township by the unreasonable emission of dust, smoke, fly
ash or noxious odors which are offensive or disturbing to adjacent property
owners and residents or persons in this area.
(Ord. 4, passed 6-2-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
TALL GRASS AND WEEDS
§ 91.40 TITLE AND APPLICABLE SEASONS.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Township of Tuscarora Tall
Grass and Weed Ordinance” and shall be applicable and in full force and effect
from May 1 through October 31 of each year.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 91.41 PURPOSE.
   The township hereby finds that unsightly tall grass and weeds growing in
unsuitable areas can have a blighting effect on neighborhoods and can provide a
refuge for vermin and insects. The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate
the height of grass and weeds in certain areas of the township in which there
is a higher population density, while still maintaining and preserving the
township’s unique lakefront location, which includes sand dunes, wild dune
grasses, meadows, wetlands and woodlands.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 91.42 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRASS. Any type of grass or weed, but not including crops grown as a source
of income, including, but not limited to, corn, oats or barley.
   LAND USED FOR AGRICULTURE. The use of land for tilling of the soil, the
raising of field or tree crops or animal husbandry, as a source of income.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has the right to occupy a parcel of property due to
being an owner or pursuant to a verbal or written lease or rental agreement
with the owner or agent thereof.
   OWNER. Any person holding an ownership interest in land in the township upon
which there is tall grass growing. For the purposes of this subchapter, the
name and address listed on the township tax assessment roll shall indicate
ownership interest in such land.
   WEEDS. Includes Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders (any species of
Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum
(Berteroaincana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior J), Japanese knotweed (fallopian
japonica), poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron), poison sumac (toxicodendron
vernix), garlic mustard (alliaria petiolata), spotted knapweed (centaurea
maculosa), phragmites (phragmites australis) and/or any other other plant,
which is in the opinion of the Township Board, comes under the provisions of
the Noxious Weeds Act, Public Act 359 of 1941, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
247.61 et seq.), including grass over six inches in height, other than that
which is part of a vegetable or flower garden. WEEDS shall be regarded as a
common nuisance.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 91.43 LAND SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to the following:
      (1)   Lots in a platted subdivision with a structure;
      (2)   Vacant lots within plated residential subdivisions in which
buildings have been erected upon 60% or more of the lots; or
      (3)   Parcels of land which have a tree lawn and/or which border improved
public streets or rights-of-way.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to:
      (1)   Land used for agricultural purposes, including weeds in fields,
devoted to growing any small grain crops such as wheat, oats, barley or rye;
      (2)   Portions of lots used for flower gardens, shrubbery or vegetable
gardens;
      (3)   Naturally wooded areas, dune and dunegrass areas, or regulated
wetlands or meadows; and
      (4)   Areas designated as undeveloped open space or meadows by the
Township Board.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 91.44 DUTY TO CUT GRASS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, an owner and/or
occupants who owns or otherwise has occupancy rights for property in the
township is responsible for cutting, destroying and removing or causing to be
cut, destroyed or removed from the land all noxious and poisonous weeds growing
thereon, as well as dead grass and brush thereon, to prevent such weeds from
going to seed or blossom, as the case may be; to prevent grass from growing in
excess of six inches in height, except for dune grass; and preventing such dead
grass and brush from becoming a fire hazard.
   (B)   The duties imposed in this section extend to the tree lawn, which
includes any portions of the abutting public right-of way that would become
part of the property if the right-of-way were vacated, except for any roadway
which is paved for vehicular traffic.
   (C)   In addition to the property owner or occupant, the manager of a
business on a property, meaning the person that exercises the most control over
the day-to-day operations of the business, shall also be responsible parties
subject to the duties imposed in this section.
   (D)   On an undeveloped or vacant lot, tall grass and weeds must be cut back
at a distance of at least 20 feet from the roadway by the owner and/or
occupants so as to allow a clear line of site for drivers, and the owner and/or
operator shall also cut grass and weeds back at least 20 feet on each lot line
where such property abuts any residential property. The 20 feet which abuts a
public street for purposes of this section shall begin at the curb, or if none
exists, at the edge of the paved roadway nearest to the property. If a property
under this section abuts a residential property on the rear or side of the
property, the 20 feet shall start at the lot line.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.45 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of any lot or
parcel of land to which this subchapter applies to allow or maintain upon any
portion of such lot or parcel any growth of tall grass or weeds as defined
herein, or to permit the deposit or accumulation upon any portion of such lot
or parcel of land, of any brush, yard debris, dead vegetation, or cut grass or
weeds so as to create a nuisance due to unsightliness, an unhealthy or unsafe
condition, or traffic hazard, or fire hazard. Growth of grass to a length
greater than six inches shall be considered to be a nuisance for the purposes
of this section. Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit
natural composting when such composting is done in an appropriate area of the
property, which shall not include the front yard.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of any lot or
parcel of land to which this subchapter applies to place, throw, sweep or
otherwise deposit any yard waste material of any kind on any alley, street,
gutter, sidewalk or utility right-of-way in the township.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer. This subchapter shall be enforced by the Township
Police Department and/or the township’s designated Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Enforcement Officer and his or her authorized
representatives are hereby empowered to enter upon any premises or land in the
township for the purpose of inspecting, removing of and/or destroying tall
grass and weeds prohibited under this subchapter. No person shall interfere
with such person or persons while they are engaged in carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Violation notice. After inspection, if any property is determined to
be in violation of this subchapter, a violation notice will be sent to the
property owner and/or occupant of said premises in which the name appears in
the last local assessment record of the township. The notice shall be sent by
both first-class and by posting a copy of said notice on the property. The
notice shall give the property owner ten days from the date of the notice to
cut the tall grass and weeds.
   (D)   Appeal provisions. A party aggrieved by a decision under division (C)
above may appeal the violation notice as follows.
      (1)   Within the ten-day time period for which a lawn must be cut in
division (C) above, an aggrieved party may file a written request with the
Township Clerk setting forth an appeal of the violation notice, along with
specific reasons alleging why the allegations in the violation notice are
improper.
      (2)   The Clerk shall notice the aggrieved party in writing of the time,
place and date that the Township Supervisor or his or her appointed Hearing
Officer will hold a hearing on the appeal.
      (3)   The Township Supervisor or his or her appointed Hearing Officer may
grant relief on appeal if it finds that there is good cause to believe that the
violation notice was issued in error. GOOD CAUSE shall mean that the Township
Supervisor or his or her appointed Hearing Officer finds by a preponderance of
the evidence that the area ordered to be mowed is exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to comply. If no appeal is filed, and the tall grass and weeds
are not cut within ten days, or if the tall grass and weeds are not cut within
five days of a decision on appeal ordering the cutting of the grass and weeds,
the township shall have the authority to enter upon the land and/or to cause
the grass and weeds to be mowed by an authorized representative who is hereby
empowered to enter upon any premises or land in the township for the purpose of
mowing tall grass and weeds in violation of this subchapter, even if the
property owner and/or occupant failed to actually receive said notice. The
township, its agents and representatives shall not be responsible for damage to
buildings, vehicles, landscape, trees, shrubs and the like during the mowing of
property in violation of this subchapter.
   (F)   Assessment of costs. All expenses of such cutting, to include
equipment usage, transportation, man-hours involved, and overhead, including
any and all cost incurred in the removal or relocation of debris, junk or other
miscellaneous obstructions which would be necessary or convenient to carry out
the requirements of this subchapter shall be paid by the owners of such land,
thereof per residential parcel, per cutting. After having a lot mowed, the
township shall then submit a bill to the property owner for the cost of the
mowing. If the property owner does not pay the bill within 60 days of the date
of the invoice, the cost of such payment shall be charged against the premises
and it shall become a lien on the land or property assessed of the same
character in effect as the lien created by general law for taxes.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 91.47 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any violation of any provision of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and the township may seek enforcement of the subchapter by suit for
injunction, damages or other appropriate legal action, as against a nuisance,
at the expense of the property owner under M.C.L.A. § 600.2940(3), including
reasonable attorney fees, which may be charged as a lien against the premises
pursuant to the procedure in §
91.46(F). Any such civil action shall be in addition to any prosecution for
violations of this subchapter as a municipal civil infraction. Commencement of
any such proceedings shall not constitute an election of remedies.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found violating any of the provisions
of §§
91.20 through
91.24 shall, upon conviction, be responsible for a civil infraction and subject
to a penalty not to exceed $500 plus court costs. Each day that a violation
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. The provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.24 may also be enforced by suit for injunction, damages or other appropriate
legal action.
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of §§
91.40 through
91.47 shall be a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine
of not less than $50, plus applicable costs and other sanctions for each
violation as authorized by § 21 of Public Act 359 of 1947, as amended and the
Bridgman Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau Ordinance.
      (2)   (a)   Repeat offenses under §§
91.40 through
91.47 shall be subject to increased fines as provided by this division (C). As
used in this division (C), REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent)
violation of the same requirement or provision of §§
91.40 through
91.47 within any three- year period for which the person admits responsibility
or is determined to be responsible.
         (b)   The increased fine for a repeat offense under §§
91.40 through
91.47 shall be as follows:
            1.   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $125 plus costs;
            2.   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense
shall be not less than $250 plus costs; and
            3.   The fine for any offense which is a third repeat or any
subsequent repeat offense, shall be not less than $400 each plus costs.
      (3)   Each day on which any violation of §§
91.40 through
91.47 occurs or continues, constitutes a separate offense subject to separate
sanctions.
      (4)   If there is any evidence of retaliation by any offender against any
complainant or witness, such evidence shall be communicated to the District
Court. In sentencing any violator, the District Court or magistrate shall first
examine the evidence of retaliation, and if such be shown, shall consider such
acts, including the amount of property damage, and sentence the violator
accordingly, which sentence may include restitution for any damage.
(Ord. 4A, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 4, passed 6-2-1998; Ord. 35, passed 4-2-2019)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Township Parks
   
92.01   Closure of property
   
92.02   Basis of closures
   
92.03   Closure times, intervals and purposes
   
92.04   Definitions
Disorderly Conduct in Public Places
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Disorderly conduct
Boats and Watercraft
   
92.30   Boat launch entrance fees
   
92.31   Limitation of towing water skis, water sled, surfboard or other similar
contrivance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
TOWNSHIP PARKS
§ 92.01 CLOSURE OF PROPERTY.
   Township owned properties or any part or parts thereof may be at any time
ordered closed to the public by the township in the event that a determination
is made that such closure is necessary to lessen undue traffic congestion,
promote the safe, free and unhindered passage of pedestrians, remove snow and
debris, maintain the properties or other reasons relating to the health, safety
and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 92.02 BASIS OF CLOSURES.
   Sufficient basis for ordering closure of township owned properties or any
part or parts thereof shall include, but are not limited to snow plowing or
removal, prevention of camping in recreational vehicles on township property,
safety hazards to persons or property created by congestion of traffic or
numbers of people, security needs, control of disorderly persons, control of
excessive numbers of persons using roller skates, roller blades or skateboards
to the detriment of the free passage of vehicle traffic or pedestrians and the
control of potential safety hazards to persons or property.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CLOSURE TIMES, INTERVALS AND PURPOSES.
   Any section or part of any township owned property may be declared closed by
the township at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at
regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and either entirely or merely
to certain uses as the township shall find reasonably necessary in the public
interest.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 92.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township Supervisor of the Township of Tuscarora or his or her
designee.
   TOWNSHIP OWNED PROPERTY. Parking lots, streets, bike paths, bike lanes,
sidewalks, parks and public buildings.
(Ord. 16, passed 8-1-1994)
DISORDERLY CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 92.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 92.16 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall in any public place:
      (1)   Be drunk or under the influence of any narcotic drug if, while
drunk or under the influence of a narcotic drug, said person is endangering the
well-being of himself or herself or other persons;
      (2)   Be in a naked state;
      (3)   Engage in any physical assault or altercation;
      (4)   Conduct himself or herself in such a manner that he ore she
unreasonably disturbs a meeting of municipal officials;   
      (5)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct;
      (6)   Allow any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be a resort
of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons;
      (7)   Obstruct, resist, hinder or oppose any member of the Police or Fire
Departments or any peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties as such,
or to flee on foot from any member of the Police Department when said officer
is lawfully discharging his or her duties;
      (8)   Prowl about or loiter in any alley or the private premises of any
other person without authority or the permission of the owner of such premises;
      (9)   Summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good reason
therefore, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed; or
      (10)   To loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone and/or
in consort with others in a public place in such a manner so as to:
            (a)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalks
or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians; and
         (b)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, which act prevents the free and uninterrupted egress or ingress to
or from said place.
   (B)   When any person or persons cause or commits any of the conditions
herein enumerated in this section, a Police Officer or any law enforcement
officer shall order that person or persons to cease causing or committing such
conditions and to move or disperse. Any person or persons who fails or refuses
to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
BOATS AND WATERCRAFT
§ 92.30 BOAT LAUNCH ENTRANCE FEES.
   (A)   The boat launch at the Marina Park and parking lot as established by
the township shall be under the supervision of the Township Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to enter the boat launch area at the said Marina
Park Boat Launch, or park at the designated overflow parking site after
launching a boat, without first paying the monetary entrance fee as required by
resolution of the Township Board. The permit fees are to be set annually at the
February regular meeting of the Township Board with approval from the DNR
Waterways Commission.
   (C)   Permits are available for day, annual or business use. The daily fee
is good only on the date of issue. Annual and business fees are good from
January 1 through December 31. The appropriate parking permit must be
prominently displayed on or above the vehicle dash and clearly readable through
the vehicle windshield.
   (D)   The launch and designated overflow parking sites are open 24 hours.
   (E)   Vehicles parked at the launch site must display a valid day or annual
pass.
   (F)   Vehicles without a trailer parked at the designated overflow parking
site do not require a pass. Vehicles with a boat trailer parked at the
designated overflow parking site do require a pass.
   (G)   Notice to be published. The Township Clerk shall publish these
regulations in the manner required by law.
   (H)   These sites are owned and operated by the township and the Michigan
State Park Passport is not accepted.
   (I)   The Township Board, at its discretion, may suspend application of this
section for a period of hours or days to accommodate special functions and
uses.
   (J)   No unattended trailers parked at the boat launch and at the designated
overflow parking site. Trailers will be towed at owner’s expense.
   (K)   No camping is allowed at either the boat launch or at the designated
overflow parking site.
(Ord. 25, passed 2-1-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 LIMITATION OF TOWING WATER SKIS, WATER SLED, SURFBOARD OR OTHER SIMILAR
CONTRIVANCE.
   On that portion of the waters of the Indian River between west of the I-75
Bridge and Burt Lake, within the township, Section 24, Town 35 North, Range 3
West, County of Cheboygan, State of Michigan, it is unlawful for the operator
of a vessel to:
   (A)   Have in tow, or otherwise assist in the propulsion of, a person on
water skis, water sled, surfboard, tube or other similar contrivance between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., on Saturdays and holidays during the
months of June, July and August.
   (B)   The boundaries of the area described above shall be marked with signs
and/or buoys. All buoys must be placed as described in the permit issued by the
Department of Natural Resources and be in conformance with the state uniform
waterway marking system.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-6-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any persons violating any of the provisions of §
92.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or imprisoned in the county jail for a
period of 90 days or both. Any minor whose age would place him or her under the
jurisdiction of Probate Court shall be dealt with in accordance with Juvenile
Court Law and Procedure.
      (2)   When any person or persons causes or commits any of the conditions
herein enumerated in §
92.15(c), a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that
person or persons to cease causing or committing such conditions and to move or
disperse. Any person or persons who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall
be guilty of a violation of this section.
   (C)   (1)   A person responsible for activity that violates §
92.30(B) or (c) shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction as defined in
state law (§ 113, M.C.L.A. § 600.113), and subject to a civil fine according to
the following schedule:
 
First violation within a 3-year period                $50
Second violation within a 3-year period               $125
Third violation within a 3-year period                $250
Fourth or subsequent violation within a 3-year period $400
 
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
direct or indirect expenses incurred by the township in connection with the
violation. In no case, however, shall costs of less than $9 or more than $500
be ordered. A violator of §
92.30 shall also be subject to such additional sanctions, remedies and judicial
orders as are authorized under state law. Each day a violation of §
92.30 continues to exist constitutes a separate violation.
   (D) Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to vacate and leave an area of
township owned property which has been closed pursuant to §§
92.01 through
92.04, after being notified of the closure by the township and being requested
to vacate and leave the closed area, is responsible for a civil infraction and
subject to a penalty not to exceed $300 plus court costs.
   (E)   Any persons violating any of the provisions of §
92.16 above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the county
jail for a period not exceeding 90 days or both so fined and imprisoned. Any
minor whose age would place him or her under the jurisdiction of the probate
court, violating any of the provisions of §
92.16 shall be dealt with in accordance with juvenile court law and procedure.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 26, passed 10-6-2009)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Definitions of cemetery lots and burial spaces
   
93.03   Sale of lots or burial spaces
   
93.04   Purchase price and transfer fees
   
93.05   Grave opening charges
   
93.06   Markers or memorials
   
93.07   Interment regulations
   
93.08   Winter burials
   
93.09   Cremains
   
93.10   Ground maintenance
   
93.11   Disclaimer of township liability and responsibility
   
93.12   Forfeiture of vacant cemetery lots or burial spaces
   
93.13   Repurchase of lots or burial spaces
   
93.14   Records
   
93.15   Vault
   
93.16   Cemetery hours
   
93.17   Fees
   
93.18   All bodies in the storage vault must be out by May 1
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Tuscarora Township Cemetery
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS OF CEMETERY LOTS AND BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   A CEMETERY LOT shall consist of burial spaces sufficient to
accommodate more than one burial space.
   (B)   A BURIAL SPACE shall consist of an area at least 38 inches wide and 96
inches in length.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.03 SALE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   No sale shall be made to funeral directors or others than as
heretofore set forth. The Township Clerk and cemetery sexton have the authority
to sell the cemetery lots. The cemetery burial spaces grant a right of burial
only and do not convey any other title to the lot or burial space sold. The
Clerk will issue a deed to the cemetery burial space.
   (B)   All sales and transfers of cemetery lots or burial spaces shall be
made on a form approved by the Township Board and signed by the designated
township official, which grants a right of burial only and does not convey any
other title or right to the cemetery lot or burial space sold. Such forms shall
be signed by the Township Clerk or sexton, and shall constitute a permit when
approved. The township may charge reasonable fees for transfers of ownership.
Such fees shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Township Board,
payable to the township.
   (C)   The Township Board shall have the authority to place a limit on the
number of cemetery lots or burial spaces sold to a particular person, as well
as such person’s family and relatives. Furthermore, the township shall have the
absolute right and discretion to determine whether a particular cemetery lot or
burial space will be sold to a specific person and where such cemetery lot or
burial spaces will be located and within which township cemetery. Such decision
shall be based upon reasonable factors, including, but not limited to, the
number of vacant cemetery lots or burial spaces available and whether family or
relatives of the person seeking to purchase a cemetery lot or burial spaces are
buried adjacent or nearby the cemetery lot or burial spaces requested.
   (D)   The township shall have the right to correct any errors that may be
made concerning interments, disinterment or in the description, transfer or
conveyance of any cemetery lot or burial space, either by canceling the deed
for a particular vacant cemetery lot or burial spaces and substituting and
conveying in lieu thereof another vacant cemetery lot or burial spaces in a
similar location within the cemetery at issue or by refunding the money paid
for the cemetery lot or burial space to the purchaser or the successor of the
purchaser. In the event that an error involves the interment of the remains of
any person, the township shall have the right to remove and transfer the
remains so interred to another cemetery lot or burial space in a similar
location in the same township cemetery in accordance with law.
   (E)   The owner of every cemetery lot or burial space shall be responsible
for notifying the township whenever that person’s mailing address changes.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.04 PURCHASE PRICE AND TRANSFER FEES.
   (A)   Burial space pricing shall be listed in the cemetery cost section of
the township fees schedule.
   (B)   Any cost to transfer one or more burial spaces from an original
purchaser to a qualified assignee shall be listed in the cemetery cost section
of the township fee schedule.
   (C)   The foregoing charges shall be paid to the Township Treasurer and
shall be deposited in the General Fund.
   (D)   The Township Board may waive some or all fees for the burial of
indigent persons. Furthermore, the Township Board may set aside a portion of a
township cemetery or cemeteries for the burial of indigent persons.
   (E)   The Township Board, by resolution, may periodically alter the
foregoing fees to accommodate increased costs and needed reserve funds for
cemetery maintenance and acquisition.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.05 GRAVE OPENING CHARGES.
   The opening and closing of any burial space, prior to and following a burial
therein, and including the interment of ashes, shall be at a cost to be
determined from time to time by resolution of the Township Board, payable to
the township. No burial spaces shall be opened and closed except under the
direction and control of the cemetery sexton. This provision shall not apply to
proceedings for the removal and re-interment of bodies and remains, which
matters are under the supervision of the local Health Department.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.06 MARKERS OR MEMORIALS.
   (A)   All markers or memorials must be of stone or other equally durable
composition.
   (B)   Any large upright monuments must be located upon a suitable foundation
to maintain the same in an erect position.
   (C)   Only one monument, marker or memorial shall be permitted per burial
space.
   (D)   The footing or foundation upon which any marker or memorial must be
placed shall be constructed by the township, or such person(s) as may be
designated by the Township Board. Fees for such work shall be set from time to
time by resolution of the Township Board, payable to the township.
   (E)   Should any monument or memorial (including any monument or memorial
that was in place before the chapter became effective) become unsightly,
broken, moved off its proper site, dilapidated or a safety hazard, the Township
Board shall have the right, at the expense of the owner of the cemetery lot or
burial space, to correct the condition or remove the same. The township shall
make reasonable attempts to contact the owner of the cemetery lot or burial
space prior to any such work beginning.
   (F)   The maintenance, repair and upkeep of a cemetery memorial, marker, urn
or similar item is the responsibility of the heirs or family of the person
buried at that location. The township has no responsibility or liability
regarding the repair, maintenance or upkeep regarding any such marker,
memorial, urn or similar item.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.07 INTERMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only one body shall be interred in a burial space. The exceptions
being: a mother or father and an infant; infants of a multiple birth; two young
children; or two cremains.
   (B)   Only human remains can be buried in a burial space.
   (C)   The township shall be given not less than 36 hours’ prior notice in
advance of any funeral to allow for the opening of the burial space. The
opening and closing of burial spaces shall be done only by the township or such
person or persons as are designated by the township.
   (D)   The appropriate permit for the burial space involved, together with
appropriate identification of the person to be buried therein, where necessary,
shall be presented to either the cemetery sexton or the Township Clerk prior to
interment. Where such permit has been lost or destroyed, the Township Clerk
shall be satisfied, from his or her records, that the person to be buried in
the burial space is an authorized and appropriate one before any interment is
commenced or completed.
   (E)   All graves shall be located in an orderly and neat appearing manner
within the confines of the burial space involved.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.08 WINTER BURIALS.
   (A)   The township may charge additional fees for winter burials.
   (B)   (1)   If a winter burial cannot occur due to inclement weather, frozen
ground or similar condition, the deceased person may be kept in winter storage
until a spring burial can occur. Written permission by the next of kin or
authorized agent must be obtained prior to winter storage.
      (2)   All such winter storage costs shall be paid by the estate of the
deceased person or the person’s next of kin.
   (C)   No winter burials shall occur without the prior consent of the
township sexton.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.09 CREMAINS.
   Cremains may be buried in a container approved by the township in a burial
space. No cremains shall be scattered or dispersed with a township cemetery.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.10 GROUND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No grading, leveling or excavating upon burial space shall be allowed
without the permission of the cemetery sexton or Township Clerk.
   (B)   No flowers, shrubs, trees or vegetation of any type shall be planted
without the approval of the cemetery sexton or the Township Clerk. Any of the
foregoing items planted without such approval may be removed by the township or
the cemetery sexton.
   (C)   The Township Board reserves the right to remove or trim any tree,
plant or shrub located within the cemetery in the interest of maintaining
proper appearance and the use of the cemetery.
   (D)   Mounds, bricks, blocks and any borders that hinder the free use of a
lawn mower or other gardening apparatus are prohibited.
   (E)   The cemetery sexton shall have the right and authority to remove and
dispose of any and all growth, emblems, displays or containers therefore that
through decay, deterioration, damage or otherwise become unsightly, a source of
litter or a maintenance problem. Surfaces other than earth or sod are
prohibited.
   (F)   All refuse of any kind or nature including, among others, dried
flowers, wreaths and flower containers must be removed by October 1. Grave
blankets and winter wreaths must be removed by May 1. If not, the township will
dispose of them when spring and fall clean-ups take place. The township is not
responsible for lost or stolen merchandise that has been left on the graves. No
newspapers or articles are permitted.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.11 DISCLAIMER OF TOWNSHIP LIABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every person who enters, remains in and travels within a township cemetery
does so at their own risk. The township is not responsible for any injury,
accident or other calamity that might occur to any person present in a township
cemetery. Furthermore, the township is not responsible for any damage or
vandalism to, theft of or deterioration of any burial monument, headstone,
flower urn or other item placed at or near a burial space or anywhere in a
township cemetery. The purchaser or transferee of any cemetery lot or burial
space or the equivalent (and all subsequent transferees, assigns, heirs or
beneficiaries) hereby releases, waives, indemnifies and holds harmless the
township for, from and against any injury, damages, causes of action, claims,
costs and expenses associated with, relating to and/or involving the cemetery
lot or similar right, any headstone, monument or similar items, and any matter
related to the cemetery involved. Such waiver, release and hold harmless
provision shall apply not only to the township, but also as to the township
sexton and any township employee, officer, official or agent.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.12 FORFEITURE OF VACANT CEMETERY LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   Cemetery lots or burial spaces sold after the effective date of the chapter
and remaining vacant 40 years from the date of their sale shall automatically
revert to the township upon occurrence of the following events:
   (A)   Notice shall be sent by the Township Clerk by first-class mail to the
last known address of the last owner of record informing him or her of the
expiration of the 40-year period and that all rights with respect to said lots
or spaces will be forfeited if he or she does not affirmatively indicate in
writing to the Township Clerk within 60 days from the date of mailing of the
within notice his or her desire to retain said burial rights; and
   (B)   No written response to said notice indicating a desire to retain the
cemetery lots or burial spaces in question is received by the Township Clerk
from the last owner or record of said lots or spaces, or his or her heirs or
legal representative, within 60 days from the date of mailing of said notice.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.13 REPURCHASE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   The township may repurchase any cemetery lot or burial space from the owner
for a price set by the Township Board, upon the written request of said owner
or his or her legal heirs or representatives.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.14 RECORDS.
   The Township Clerk and the cemetery sexton shall maintain records concerning
all burials, and purchasing of graves.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.15 VAULT.
   (A)   All burials shall be within a standard concrete vault (which meets all
applicable laws) installed or constructed in each burial space before
interment.
   (B)   Vaults of other suitable materials may be allowed at the discretion of
the township.
   (C)   Cremains shall be in a container approved by the township.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.16 CEMETERY HOURS.
   (A)   The cemetery shall be open to the general public from the hours of
daylight to dark each day.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted in the township cemeteries at any time
other than the foregoing hours, except upon permission of the Township Board or
the sexton of the cemetery.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.17 FEES.
   The Township Board shall have the authority to set fees pursuant to this
chapter from time to time by resolution. Such fees can include, but are not
limited to, a fee or fees for a burial permit, disinterment permit, grave
opening, setting of foundations, grave closing, winter or holiday burial, the
price for a new burial space, transfer fees for burial spaces and other
matters.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.18 ALL BODIES IN THE STORAGE VAULT MUST BE OUT BY MAY 1.
   The only exception will be if there is still snow on the ground or the
graves cannot be dug due to a hard winter. The township sexton will make the
determination if the weather is good enough or not.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of the
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $100 for the first offense and not less than $200 for subsequent
offenses and/or imprisonment for up to 90 days in jail, as may be determined by
a court of competent jurisdiction. Each day that a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. Any criminal prosecutions hereunder shall
not prevent civil proceedings for abatement and termination of the activity
complained of.
(Ord. 22, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 22, passed 7-6-2010)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
94.01   Preamble
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibited fireworks
   
94.04   Novelties
   
94.05   Minors
   
94.06   Public property
   
94.07   General restrictions
   
94.08   Applicability of general ordinances
   
94.09   Display fireworks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 94.01 PREAMBLE.
   The Fireworks Safety Act, Public Act 256 of 2011, effective January 1, 2012,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., legalized the sale of consumer fireworks in
the state and delegated to communities limited control over the use and
discharge of the fireworks. In the interest of maintaining public health,
safety and general welfare, the township hereby provides for the regulation and
use of fireworks within the township as provided in Public Act 256 of 2011, as
may be amended, and repeals all existing fireworks regulations that conflict
with the Act.
(Ord. 32, passed - -)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, other terms used in this chapter shall have
the meaning ascribed to them in the Act, or, if not defined in the Act, under
the APA standards. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ACT. The Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, Public Act 256 of 2011, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq., and any amendments to the Act which may be from
time to time adopted.
   APA STANDARD 87-1. The standard for construction and approval for
transportation of fireworks, novelties and theatrical pyrotechnics, published
by the American Pyrotechnics Association of Bethesda, Maryland.
   ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. Pyrotechnic devices for professional use that are
similar to consumer fireworks in the chemical composition and construction, but
not intended for consumer use, that meet the weight limits for consumer
fireworks but are not labeled as such, and that are classified as UN0431 or
UN0432 under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
that are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3 or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS
does not include low-impact fireworks.
   DEPARTMENT. Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (LARA), State of
Michigan.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation as provided in 27
C.F.R. § 555.11, 49 C.F.R. part 172 and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible
or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS consist
of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks and special effects.
   LOW IMPACT FIREWORK. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase is
defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8 and 3.5p.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years old.
   NATIONAL HOLIDAY. The following:
      (1)   New Year’s Day (January 1);
      (2)   Martin Luther King Jr. Day (third Monday in January);
      (3)   Washington’s Birthday (third Monday in February);
      (4)   Memorial Day (last Monday in May);
      (5)   Independence Day (July 4);
      (6)   Labor Day (first Monday in September);
      (7)   Columbus Day (second Monday in October);
      (8)   Veterans Day (November 11);
      (9)   Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November);
      (10)   Christmas Day (December 25); and
      (11)   Any holidays as may be from time to time added, removed or changed
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. § 6103, or any replacement or amended legislation.
   NFPA. The National Fire Protection Association.
   NOVELTIES. As the term is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1,
3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4 and 3.2.5.and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls
or individual caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cup;
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and toy
guns in which toy caps as described in division (1) above, that are constructed
so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the
explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so as to
form a missile by the explosion;
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding one-eighth inch in
diameter; and
      (4)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer’s
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
   PERSON. Any individual, agent, association, charitable organization,
company, limited liability company, corporation, labor organization, legal
representative, partnership, unincorporated organization or any other legal or
commercial entity. An INDIVIDUAL shall include a minor as defined in this
section.
   SKY LANTERN. An airborne lantern typically made of paper with a wood or
bamboo frame containing a candle, fuel cell composed of waxy flammable material
or other open flame which serves as a heat source to heat the air inside the
lantern to cause it to lift into the air. The term includes sky candles, fire
balloons, airborne paper lanterns, Chinese lanterns, Kongming lanterns, wish
lanterns and khoom fay. SKY LANTERNS are not fireworks.
(Ord. 32, passed - -)
§ 94.03 PROHIBITED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks.
      (1)   (a)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer
fireworks within the geographical boundaries of the township, except on the day
of, the day preceding or the day after a national holiday.
         (b)   On the day of, the day preceding or the day after a national
holiday a person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within
the geographical boundaries of the township between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
8:00 a.m.
      (2)   When using any fireworks within the township, a person shall not
use them in a manner inconsistent with or contrary to the manufacturer’s
direction for use, or in a manner which would reasonably be foreseen to cause,
or which actually causes, harm to another or to property, or which causes,
creates or perpetuates a violation of any provision of the township’s
ordinances, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Disturbing the public peace;
         (b)   Violating the township’s nuisance regulations; or
         (c)   Creating or depositing litter in violation of the township’s
litter regulations.
   (B)   Low impact fireworks. Low impact fireworks may not be discharged
during the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., and may not otherwise be
discharged in violation of this chapter or the Act, or any other ordinance.
   (C)   Illegal fireworks. Any use, possession or discharge of any fireworks
that is prohibited and/or not approved by the state or the State Fire Marshal,
or that which contains a prohibited chemical component, compound or composition
under APA 87-1 standard, or any federal or state law or regulation, is
prohibited at all times and places, regardless of how it is labeled.
   (D)   Sky lanterns. Sky lanterns shall not be used, ignited, launched,
offered for sale, exposed for sale, sold at retail, kept with intent to sell at
retail, possessed, given, furnished or transported.
(Ord. 32, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 NOVELTIES.
   Unless otherwise specified herein, novelties are not subject to any of the
regulations in this chapter, except that they may not be utilized in such a
manner as to cause, create or perpetuate a violation of any other township
regulations.
(Ord. 32, passed - -)
§ 94.05 MINORS.
   (A)   A minor shall not ignite, discharge or use any consumer fireworks, at
any time, nor on any day, including national holidays, and the day before and
after a national holiday.
   (B)   A minor shall not ignite, discharge or use any low impact fireworks or
novelty fireworks, unless under the supervision of a parent, or guardian, and
the ignition, discharge and use is within the permitted hours and does not
violate the provisions of this chapter and the Act.
(Ord. 32, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall at any time or on any day ignite, discharge or use
consumer fireworks in public parks.
   (B)   No consumer fireworks shall be discharged, used or ignited on any
public property, including public streets, sidewalks, easements and rights-of-
way as well as school property.
(Ord. 32, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge fireworks or novelties other than in a
manner prescribed by the manufacturer’s directions for use and no person shall
discharge consumer fireworks while within a building or enclosed space within
50 feet of a flame or flammable surface; within 20 feet of a property line;
within any public roadway or public right-of-way; within, upon or from a motor
vehicle; at any person, vehicle or conveyance; within 500 feet of a gasoline
service station; during weather conditions involving wind speeds in excess of
ten mph; from any location not at ground level; from any surface that is not
flat and level; without keeping a bucket of water or garden hose ready to
address accidents; within 25 feet of a building; from within any type of
container or other object that could reasonably be foreseen to impede the
aerial progress of the firework, or to cause a fire or explosion after its
ignition.
   (B)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks on
public property, school property, church property of another person without
that organization’s or person’s express permission to use those fireworks on
those premises. A person who violates this division (B) is responsible for a
state civil infraction as provided by in the Act.
   (C)   No person shall, either individually or in concert with another
person, cause damage to any private or public property by the use, discharge or
ignition of any fireworks. Any violation of this division (C) is subject to any
penalty imposed by the Act.
   (D)   A law enforcement officer and or/fire official may confiscate and
impound all fireworks and fireworks paraphernalia involved in causing a
violation of this chapter. If the impounded items are lawful to possess, they
may be retained as evidence until any court proceedings or citations have been
adjudicated and any probationary periods have been completed. If the impounded
items are unlawful to possess, the Police Department or Fire Department shall
dispose of or destroy the items in accordance with evidence protocols that will
still allow for effective prosecution of the charged offenses without actual
retention of the items. If any fireworks are retained by the township, they
shall be stored in compliance with the Act and rules promulgated under the Act.
The person from whom the fireworks are seized under the Act or this chapter
shall pay the actual costs of storage and /or disposal of the seized fireworks.
The Police Department may dispose of the seized fireworks by providing them to
a disposal organization approved by the Chief of Police or designee, or by
allowing them to be used by the township police, fire and code enforcement
agencies for training purposes.
(Ord. 32, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 APPLICABILITY OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the enforcement of ordinances or laws
of general applicability at any time or on any day regardless of whether the
conduct or offense is secondary or incidental to the use, discharge or ignition
of fireworks.
(Ord. 32, passed - -)
§ 94.09 DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The Township Board may permit articles pyrotechnic, display fireworks,
special effect fireworks and consumer fireworks in the township, pursuant to
the provisions of the Act and this chapter.
   (B)   Any person wishing to conduct an articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks, special effects display and consumer fireworks shall, at least 45
days prior to any display, submit an application on a form furnished by the
township, pay the required fee and shall secure permission from the Township
Board prior to any such fireworks display.
   (C)   The site plan of the area where the articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks, special effects display or consumer fireworks is to be conducted
shall be submitted with the application. The site plan shall set forth all
structures in the area and within the discharge site fallout area. The site
plan shall furthermore set forth the distance separating any fireworks and any
spectator viewing areas. All site plans shall be forwarded to the Fire Chief
and/or his or her designated alternate for approval, including any recommended
conditions, prior to coming before the Township Board for its approval.
   (D)   A copy of any required state or federal permit for the fireworks
display shall be submitted with the application.
   (E)   Proof of insurance meeting the requirements of this chapter and Public
Act 256 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq. shall be submitted with the
application.
   (F)   The application shall include information as to the competency and
qualifications of the fireworks display operators, as required by NFPA 1123.
   (G)   The Township Board shall approve an application for articles
pyrotechnic, display fireworks, special effects display or consumer fireworks
if it finds that all of the following standards are satisfied.
      (1) The application and accompanying documentation is complete and
conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The operator of the fireworks display is competent and qualified to
conduct the fireworks display, per NFPA 1123.
      (3)   The Fire Chief or his or her designated alternate has approved the
application and site plan.
      (4)   The fireworks display will not have an adverse effect upon public
safety.
      (5)   The time, duration, location of the fireworks or special effects
display will not, due to noise and other factors, unreasonably disturb the
peace of persons residing within the vicinity or otherwise violate the
township’s nuisance abatement regulations.
      (6)   The Township Board, in approving an application hereunder, shall
have the authority to impose such conditions as it determines in its sole
reasonable discretion are necessary to assure that the fireworks display will
satisfy the above standards.
   (H)   Requirements and restrictions.
      (1)   The person conducting the fireworks display shall follow NFPA 1123
for fireworks display and/or the township requirements set forth herein,
whichever are more restrictive.
      (2)   A minimum safe area of 250-foot radius, plus an additional 70-foot
radius for each inch by which the fireworks shell exceeds three inches in
diameter shall be required. The Township Board shall have the authority to
grant a variance from this requirement where it determines in its sole
reasonable discretion that, given the nature of the subject site, the nature of
the surrounding area and/or the nature of the proposed fireworks display, that
a variance will not have a material adverse impact on public safety. In no
event, however, shall the applicant fail to comply with the minimum
requirements of NFPA 1123.
      (3)   The applicant shall maintain personal injury liability insurance/
property damage liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for each event.
The township shall be named as an additional insured on the insurance policy.
      (4)   The Township Board shall not issue a permit to a nonresident person
until the person has appointed in writing a member of the State Bar or a
resident agent to be the person’s legal representative upon whom all process in
an action or proceeding against the person may be served.
      (5)   The applicant shall be responsible for all shells being fired. In
the event one or more of the shells does not explode, the applicant shall
secure the area until the unexploded shell(s) is found and properly disposed
of.
      (6)   The consumption of alcohol immediately prior to and during the
fireworks display by any person involved in conducting the display is
prohibited.
      (7)   A fireworks display conducted hereunder shall conform with all
specifications set forth in the approved application and site plan, as well as
with any conditions imposed by the Township Board in granting such approval.
      (8)   The applicant shall cause the site of the fireworks display to be
cleaned up within 24 hours after the fireworks display has ended.
      (9)   A permit is not transferable and shall not be granted to a minor.
(Ord. 32, passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person that violates any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed responsible for a municipal civil infraction and fined in accordance
with the following schedule:
 
                                     Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
First offense within 3-year period*  $75          $500
Second offense within 3-year period* $150         $500
Third offense within 3-year period*  $325         $500
Fourth offense within 3-year period* $500         $500
*Determined on the basis of the date of commission of the offense(s)
 
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which the township has been put in connection
with the municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of
neither less than $9 nor more than $500 be ordered. In addition, the township
shall have the right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
purpose of obtaining an injunction, restraining order or other appropriate
remedy to compel compliance with this chapter. Each day that a violation of
this chapter continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   An individual who uses, ignites or discharges consumer fireworks or
low impact fireworks while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a
controlled substance or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled
substance is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 30 days in jail and/
or a fine up to $500, or if the violation caused damage to the property of
another person, by up to 90 days in jail and/or a fine up to $500.
(Ord. 32, passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
111.   LIQUOR LICENSES
      
112.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   BASIC CABLE TELEVISION REGULATION
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   License fee
   
110.04   Time limit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation whether as owner, agent consignee
or employee, or whether a resident within the township, that:
         (a)   Engages in a temporary business of selling and/or delivering
goods, wares or services, or who conducts meetings open to the general public
where franchises, distributorships, contracts or business opportunities are
offered to participants; or
         (b)   Sells, offers or exhibits for sale any goods, wares or services,
franchises, distributorships, contracts or business opportunities during the
course of or any time within six months after a lecture or public meeting on
said goods, wares, services, franchises, business opportunities, contracts or
distributorships.
      (2)   The foregoing notwithstanding, however, a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, for
the purposes of this section, shall not include the following:
         (a)   A person, firm or corporation who shall occupy any of the
aforesaid places for the purpose of conducting a permanent business therein;
providing however, that no person, firm or corporation shall be relieved from
the provisions of the chapter by reason of a temporary association with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such temporary
or transient business in connection with or as a part of or in the name of any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer;
         (b)   Any sales of merchandise damaged by smoke or fire, or or
bankrupt concerns, where such stocks have been acquired from merchants of the
township therefore regularly licensed and engaged in business; provided,
however, no such stocks of merchandise shall be augmented by new goods;
          (c)   A person, firm or corporation exhibiting goods for sale
concurrent with and as an adjunct to a group display, meeting or convention
duly authorized to be held in a publicly owned building and authorized and
licensed pursuant to this chapter;
         (d)   A person who sells his or her own property which was not
acquired for resale, barter or exchange and who does not conduct such sales or
act as a participant by furnishing goods in such a sale more than twice during
any calendar year;
         (e)   Art exhibits, where participating artists sell their original
works and which do not contain any sales of art works purchased elsewhere and
held for resale, providing said art exhibits are sponsored by a local,
responsible organization. Each organization which seeks an exemption under this
division (2)(e) shall submit a petition to the Police Department specifying the
sponsoring organization, the location where said show is to be held, the
purposes of the show and the names of participating artists. The Police
Department shall, upon receipt of the petition, review the petition and grant
or deny the exemption. A person aggrieved by the decision may petition the
Township Board for its determination; or
         (f)   Any sales of vegetables, fruits or perishable farm products by
farmers selling their own product.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-12-1986)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or for any agent, servant or employee of
any person to engage in, carry on or conduct the business of a transient
merchant without first obtaining a license to do so. Licenses shall be obtained
from the Township Police Department and the receipt for the payment of the fee
shall serve as evidence of the issuance of a license.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-12-1986) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The license fee for engaging, canying on or conducting business, as a
transient merchant shall be as follows:
      (1)   Fifty dollars per day; or
      (2)   Two hundred dollars per week.
   (B)   All such fees shall be payable in advance.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-12-1986; Ord. 7A, passed 8-13-2002)
§ 110.04 TIME LIMIT.
   A limit of 14 days a year per vendor. Can be used daily or weekly. The
weekly is seven consecutive days.
(Ord. 7A, passed 8-13-2002)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall upon conviction be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment at
the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 7, passed 8-12-1986)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR LICENSES
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Application for new license
   
111.03   Objections to renewal and request for revocation
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Tuscarora Township Liquor
License Ordinance”.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-6-1989)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION FOR NEW LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. Application for a license to sell beer, wine or spirits
shall be made to the Township Board in writing, signed by the applicant, if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a partnership or
corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following
statements and information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; or, in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the objects for which
organized, the names and addresses of the officers and directors, and, if a
majority interest in the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his or her nominee, the name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or, in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in this application,
and the disposition of such application;
      (7)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or the laws of the state;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States or any ordinances of the township in the
conduct of its business; and
      (9)   The application shall be accompanied by building and plat plans
showing the entire structure and premises and, in particular, the specific
areas where the license is to be utilized. The plans shall demonstrate adequate
off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities, and where
appropriate, adequate plans for screening and noise control.
   (B)   Restrictions on licenses. No such license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person whose license, under this chapter, has been revoked for
cause;
      (2)   A person who, at the time of application or renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (3)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall qualify to obtain a license;
      (4)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or a
stock owner or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason;
      (5)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or
a controlled substance;
      (7)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is issued, or to a person, corporation or co-partnership that does not
have sufficient financial assets to carry on or maintain the business;
      (8)   Any law enforcing public official or any member of the Township
Board, and no such official shall be interested in any way either directly or
indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (9)   For premises where there exists a violation of the applicable
building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing or fire codes, applicable zoning
regulations, applicable public health regulations or any other applicable
township ordinance;
      (10)   For any new license or for the transfer of any existing license
unless the sale of beer, wine or spirits is shown to be incidental and
subordinate to other permitted business uses upon the site, such as, but not
limited to, food sales, motel operations or recreational activities;
      (11)   For premises where it is determined by a majority of the Township
Board that the premises do not or will not reasonably soon after commencement
of operations, have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal
facilities, screening, noise or nuisance control or where a nuisance does or
will exist; and
      (12)   Where the Township Board determines, by majority vote, that the
proposed location is inappropriate considering the desirability of establishing
a location in developed, commercial areas, in preference to isolated,
undeveloped areas; the attitude of adjacent residents and property owners;
traffic safety; accessibility to the site from abutting roads; capability of
abutting roads to accommodate the commercial activity; distance from public or
private schools for minors; proximity of the inconsistent zoning
classification; and accessibility from primary roads or state highways.
   (C)   Term of license. Approval of a license shall be for a period of one
year subject to annual renewal by the Township Board upon continued compliance
with the regulations of this chapter. Approval of a license shall be with the
understanding that any necessary remodeling or new construction for the use of
the license shall be commenced within six months of the action of the Township
Board or the State Liquor Control Commission approving such license whichever
last occurs. Any unusual delay in the completion of such remodeling or
construction may subject the license to revocation.
   (D)   Reservation of authority. No such applicant for a liquor license has
the right to the issuance of such license to him, her or it, and the Township
Board reserves the right to exercise reasonable discretion to determine who, if
anyone, shall be entitled to the issuance of such license. Additionally, no
applicant for a liquor license has the right to have such application processed
and the Township Board further reserves the right to take no action with
respect to any application filed with the Township Board. The Township Board
further reserves the right to maintain a list of all applicants and to review
the same when, in its discretion, it determines that the issuance of an
additional liquor license is in the best interests of the township at large and
for the needs and convenience of its citizens.
   (E)   License hearing. The Township Board shall grant a public hearing upon
the license application when, in its discretion, the Township Board determines
that the issuance of an additional liquor license is in the best interests of
the township at large and for the needs and convenience of its citizens.
Following such hearing, the Township Board shall submit to the applicant a
written statement of its findings and determination. The Township Board’s
determination shall be based upon satisfactory compliance within the
restrictions set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(12) above.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-6-1989)
§ 111.03 OBJECTIONS TO RENEWAL AND REQUEST FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Before filing an objection to renewal or request for revocation of
a license with the State Liquor Control Commission, the Township Board shall
serve the license holder, by first-class mail, mailed not less than ten days
prior to the hearing with notice of a hearing, which notice shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Notice of proposed action;
         (b)   Reasons for the proposed action;
         (c)   Date, time and place of the hearing; and
         (d)   Statement that the license may present evidence and testimony
and control adverse witnesses.
      (2)   Following the hearing, the Township Board shall submit to the
license holder and the Commission, a written statement of its findings and
determination.
   (B)   Criteria for nonrenewal or revocation. The Township Board shall
recommend nonrenewal or revocation of a license upon a determination by it that
based upon a preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing any of the
following exist:
      (1)   Violation of any of the restrictions on licenses set forth in §
111.02(B)(1) through (B)(12);
      (2)   Maintenance of a nuisance upon the premises; or
      (3)   Unpaid and delinquent personal property taxes, real property taxes,
special assessments or other charges imposed against the premises or the
licensee by the township or any other unit of government.
(Ord. 14, passed 11-6-1989)
CHAPTER 112: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   No marihuana establishments
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Tuscarora Township
Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments Ordinance”.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-8-2018)
§ 112.03 NO MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The township hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments within the
boundaries of the township pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§
333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-8-2018) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes allows or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of
the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
township to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper
remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the township incurs in connection with the
municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the township may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the township or by such other person(s) as designated by
the Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. 34, passed 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 113: BASIC CABLE TELEVISION REGULATION
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
113.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
113.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
113.05   Proprietary information
   
113.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
113.07   Tolling order
   
113.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
113.09   Staff of consultant report; written response
   
113.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
113.11   Refunds; notice
   
113.12   Written decision; public notice
   
113.13   Rules and regulations
   
113.14   Failure to give notice
   
113.15   Additional hearings
   
113.16   Additional powers
   
113.17   Failure to comply; remedies
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as defined
in the Act and FCC Rules.
   ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Public
Law 102-384), and as may be amended from time to time, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 201
et seq.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Means BASIC SERVICE as defined in the FCC Rules, and
any other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
township pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the township.
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the township shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the Township Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the
filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least
ten copies have been received by the Township Clerk. The Township Board may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the township pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the Township Supervisor in connection with the
township’s review and regulation of equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates. The Township Supervisor may establish deadlines for submission of the
requested information and the cable operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the
township pursuant to §
113.04(A), or any request for information pursuant to §
113.04(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the time the
allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request
that specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential
and withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the township
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552. The township shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that
results in information being withheld.
      (2)   If the cable operator requests confidentiality and the request is
denied:
         (a)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or
         (b)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of
the denial in any appropriate forum.
      (3)   Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   (1)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material
withheld as proprietary with the township. The township shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request.
      (2)   It may grant, deny or condition a request. The requesting party or
the cable operator may seek review of the decision by filing an appeal with any
appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
113.04(A), the Township Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the township which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Township Clerk and (except
those parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public
inspection and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Township Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice
is published.
   (B)   The Township Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the
date, time and place of the meeting at which the Township Board shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be
mailed by first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition,
if a written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the Township Board, then the
Township Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the cable
operator at least three days before the meeting at which the Township Board
shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   (A)   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
113.04(A) unless the Township Board (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing a
brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing.
   (B)   The Township Board may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90
days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150
days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
113.07 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the township any additional
information required or requested pursuant to §
113.04. In addition, the Township Board shall hold a public hearing to consider
the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or 150-day
period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The Township Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation within the township which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Township Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.09 STAFF OF CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   (A)   Following the public hearing, the Township Supervisor shall cause a
report to be prepared for the Township Board which shall (based on the filing
of the cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties,
information requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or
consultant’s review and other appropriate information) include a recommendation
for the decision of the Township Board pursuant to §
113.10. The Township Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable
operator by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Township Board
acts under §
113.10.
   (B)   The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Township Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the Township Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to
the cable operator, the Township Clerk shall forward it to the Township Board.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Township Board shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the township issues an order allowing the existing rates
or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also
direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §
76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of
the tolling order under §
113.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
113.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.11 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The township may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 C.F.R. §
76.942. Before the township orders any refund to subscribers, the Township
Clerk shall give at least seven days written notice to the cable operator by
first-class mail of the date, time and place at which the Township Board shall
consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the cable
operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by agent or by
letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the Township
Board.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.12 WRITTEN DECISION; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Township Board pursuant to §§
113.10 or
113.11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Township
Board, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
   (B)   The Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a
newspaper of general circulation within the township which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk.
   (C)   In addition, the Township Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
113.04, the Township Board may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Township Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the Township Board.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Township Board may hold
additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the Township Board,
in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The township shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise. The township may take any
action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public
interest in connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
§ 113.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The township may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator, including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s franchise with the township for failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the township pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the township pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial of renewal of a cable operator’s franchise.
(Ord. 17, passed 10-5-1993)
CHAPTER 114: FOOD TRUCKS/MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT LICENSE
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been ADDED by new legislation (Ord. 39-2021,
adopted 5-11-2021). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
Trespass
   
130.15   Trespass upon school district lands or premises
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(Ord. 8, passed - -)
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall in any public place:
      (1)   Be drunk or under the influence of any narcotic drug if, while
drunk or under the influence of a narcotic drug, said person is endangering the
well-being of himself or herself or other persons;
      (2)   Be in a naked state;
      (3)   Use any indecent or immoral language to, or in the presence or
hearing of, any other person, or manifest any indecent or immoral behavior in
said township in the presence, view or hearing of any other person;
      (4)   Engage in any disturbance, fight or quarrel;
      (5)   Conduct himself or herself in such a manner that he or she
unreasonably disturbs a meeting of municipal officials;
      (6)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct;
      (7)   Allow any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be a resort
of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons;
       (8)   Obstruct, resist, hinder or oppose any member of the Police or
Fire Departments or any peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties as
such, or to flee on foot from any member of the Police Department when said
officer is lawfully discharging his or her duties;
      (9)   Prowl about or loiter in any alley or the private premises of any
other person without authority or the permission of the owner of such premises;
      (10)   Summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good reason
therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed;
      (11)   While under the age of 17 years, loiter or remain in or upon any
streets, alleys or public places in the township between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day, unless such minor is in the pursuance
of an errand directed by a parent, guardian or other person having care or
custody, or while the performance of such lawful employment of such minor makes
it necessary that such minor be upon such streets, alleys or public places
during the night time, within such specified hours;
      (12)   To loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain idle either alone and /or
in consort with others in a public place in such a manner so as to:
         (a)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalks or
any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians; or
         (b)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by any one in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, which act prevents the free and uninterrupted egress or ingress to
or from said place.
   (B)   When any person or persons causes or commits any of the conditions
herein enumerates in this section, a police officer or any law enforcement
officer shall order that person or persons to cease causing or committing such
conditions and to move or disperse. Any person or persons who fails or refuses
to obey such orders shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 8, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
TRESPASS
§ 130.15 TRESPASS UPON SCHOOL DISTRICT LANDS OR PREMISES.
   (A)   No persons shall willfully enter upon the lands or premises of any
public school in the township without lawful authority after having been
forbidden to do so by the principal, Superintendent or his or her designated
agents. No person being upon said lands or premises may refuse or neglect to
depart therefor upon being requested to do so by the Superintendent, principal
or his or her designated agent. Where signs at each school building entrance
direct persons to any office or any place to obtain permission to enter and
remain in said building, entry into the building by any person without
complying with said direction shall be deemed prima facie violation of this
section; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply in the case
of students who are regularly enrolled and attending at said school, parents or
guardians of such students, teachers or other employees.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, STUDENTS WHO ARE REGULARLY ENROLLED
AND ATTENDING shall not include students who are expelled or suspended from the
public school.
(Ord. 9, passed 7-23-1975)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any persons violating any of the provisions of §
130.02 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the county
jail for a period not exceeding 90 days or be both so fined and imprisoned. Any
minor whose age would place him or her under the jurisdiction of the
probate....missing material...
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
130.15 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 8, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 7-23-1975)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
152.   DOWNTOWN MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Lot splits
   
150.02   Natural Resource and Environmental Act
§ 150.01 LOT SPLITS.
   (A)   The division of a lot in a recorded plat that is within the township
is prohibited unless approved following application to the Township Board. The
application for a division shall be filed with the Township Clerk and shall
state the reasons for the proposed division. No lot shall be divided into more
than four parts and the resulting lots shall be not less in area than permitted
by the county zoning ordinance. If the division of a lot results in an area
less than that permitted by the county zoning ordinance, the township may
approve the split if the County Zoning Commission has given its approval of the
lot area to be split prior to application to the township. No building permit
shall be issued or any building construction commenced unless the division has
been approved by the Township Board and the suitability of the land for
building sites has been approved by the district Health Department.
   (B)   The division of a lot resulting in a area smaller than prescribed
herein may be permitted by the Township Board without approval of the County
Zoning Commission but only for the purpose of adding to the existing building
site or sites.
   (C)   The application to the township shall so state the requirements above
and shall be in affidavit form and shall contain a drawing showing the
dimensions and description of each part of the lot as proposed for dividing.
   (D)   Approval of the division of a lot in a recorded plat shall be
contingent on an agreement in writing by the applicant that any sales contract,
deed or any other document presented for recording at the office of the County
Register of Deeds shall be accompanied by a copy of the written approval of the
Township Board and a copy of the drawing of the lot as approved for dividing.
The County Register of Deeds shall not record a document involving the division
of a lot in a recorded plat within the township unless approved by the Board of
Trustees of the township in compliance with the provisions of this section. The
township further reserves the right to impose any additional requirements not
specifically addressed herein.
(Ord. 20, passed 4-2-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 NATURAL RESOURCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT.
   The state Natural Resource and Environmental Protection Act is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as if set out at length herein.
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
151.01   Agency designated
   
151.02   Code appendix enforcement
   
151.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
§ 151.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, the Building Official of the county is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under
Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended. The county has assumed responsibility for
the administration and enforcement of said Act throughout the corporate limits
of the township.
(Ord. 27, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.02 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, Appendix G of the State Building Code shall be enforced by
the County Building Official throughout the corporate limits of the township.
(Ord. 27, passed 5-1-2012)
§ 151.03 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) flood insurance study (FIS)
entitled “Cheboygan County Michigan (all jurisdictions)” and dated August 16,
2012, and the flood insurance rate map(s) (FIRMS) panel number(s) of 325C,
340C, 350C and 0455C and dated August 16, 2012, are hereby adopted by reference
for the purposes of administration of the State Construction Code, and are
hereby declared to be a part of § 1612.3 of the State Building Code and to
provide the content of the “Flood Hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the
State Residential Code.
(Ord. 27, passed 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 152: DOWNTOWN MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Determination of necessity for development authority
   
152.04   Considerations
   
152.05   Creation of authority
   
152.06   Description of Downtown District boundaries
   
152.07   Board
   
152.08   Powers of authority
   
152.09   By-laws
   
152.10   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
152.11   Termination
   
152.12   Development and tax increment financing plan
   
Exhibit A: Legal description of area being added to district
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Downtown Development Authority Ordinance
of the Township of Tuscarora”.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The terms
used herein shall have the same meaning as given them in Public Act 57 of 2018,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 through 125.4915, or as hereinafter in this section
provide, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary and shall be in
addition to the terms provided in Public Act 197.
   ACT 57. The Recodified Tax Increment Financing Act, Public Act 57 of 2018,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 through 125.4915, as now in effect or hereafter
amended.
   AUTHORITY. The Downtown Development Authority of the Township of Tuscarora.
   BOARD. The governing body of the Downtown Development Authority of the
township.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Township Board of Trustees of the Township of
Tuscarora.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Supervisor of the Township of Tuscarora.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The downtown district designated in this chapter as now
existing or hereafter amended.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Tuscarora, Cheboygan County, Michigan.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.03 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY FOR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Township Board of Trustees hereby determines that it is necessary for
the best interest of the township to halt property value deterioration and
increase property tax valuation where possible in the business district of the
township to eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic
growth by establishing a Downtown Development Authority pursuant to the
Recodified Tax Increment Financing Act, Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.4101 through 125.4915.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.04 CONSIDERATIONS.
   In accordance with M.C.L.A. § 125.4318, the Township Board of Trustees has
considered the factors enumerated in that section and herein stated, making the
following determinations.
   (A)   There being less than 100 residents in the development area, a
development area citizens council was not formed.
   (B)   The development plan meets the requirements set forth in § 316(2) of
Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. § 125.4316(2).
   (C)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and the
Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
   (D)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes
of Public Act 57 of 2018.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.05 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created pursuant to the Recodified Tax Increment Financing
Act, Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 through 125.4915, a
downtown development authority of the township. The Authority shall be a public
body corporate and shall be known and exercise its powers under title of
“Downtown Development Authority of the Township of Tuscarora”. The Authority
may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of this state, and shall
possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the purpose of its
incorporation as provided herein and in Public Act 57 of 2018. The enumeration
of a power herein and in Public Act 57 of 2018 shall not be construed as a
limitation upon the general powers of the Authority.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.06 DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Findings. The Township Board hereby determines that is in the best
interests of the residents and taxpayers of the township to amend the
boundaries of the district and jurisdiction of the Authority which shall
operate to halt property value deterioration, eliminate the causes of that
deterioration, increase property tax valuation where possible in the business
district of the township, and promote economic growth, pursuant to Public Act
57 of 2018.
   (B)   Amendment of ordinance establishing Downtown Development Authority.
The prior ordinance of the township is hereby amended to provide that the
boundaries of the district in which the Authority shall exercise its powers as
provided in the Act shall be amended to add the territory of the township
described in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 37 and made part of, subject to
such changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to Public Act 57 of 2018.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996; Ord. 37, passed 5-5-2020)
§ 152.07 BOARD.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the Supervisor of the township and nine members. The members
shall be appointed by the Supervisor, subject to approval by the Township
Board. Eligibility for membership on the Board and terms of office shall be as
provided in the Recodified Tax Increment Financing Act, Public Act 57 of 2018,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4101 through 125.4915. All members shall hold office
until the member’s successor is appointed.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.08 POWERS OF AUTHORITY.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, the Authority
shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations imposed by law
and herein.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.09 BY-LAWS.
   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations governing its procedures and the
holding of regular meetings subject to the approval of the governing body of
the township.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.10 FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, or such other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the township.
   (B)   The Board shall annually prepare the budget and shall submit it to the
Township Board of Trustees on the same date that the proposed budget for the
township is required. The Authority Board shall not finally adopt a budget for
any fiscal year until the budget has been approved by the Township Board of
Trustees. The Board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in connection with
the operation of any improvements which have been financed by revenue bonds
where required to do so.
   (C)   The Authority shall be audited annually by the same independent
auditors auditing the township and copies of the audit report shall be filed
with the Township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.11 TERMINATION.
   Upon completion of its purposes, the Authority may be dissolved by the
Township Board. The property and assets of the Authority, after dissolution and
satisfaction of its obligations, shall revert to the township.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 152.12 DEVELOPMENT AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   Findings.
      (1)   The Township Board has taken into consideration the findings and
recommendations of the Citizens Council.
      (2)   The plan amendment meets the requirements set forth in Public Act
57 of 2018.
      (3)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
      (4)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of Public Act 57 of 2018.
      (5)   The land included within the development area to be acquired, if
any, is reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan amendment
and the purposes of Public Act 57 of 2018 in an efficient and economically
satisfactory manner.
      (6)   The development plan portion of the plan as amended by the plan
amendment is in reasonable accord with the master plan of the township.
      (7)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities,
are or will be adequate to service the project area.
      (8)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities, to the extent required by the plan amendment, are reasonably
necessary for the project and for the township.
   (B)   Public purpose. The Township Board hereby determines that the plan
amendment and the plan, as amended, constitute a public purpose.
   (C)   Best interest of the public. The Township Board hereby determines that
it is in the best interests of the public to proceed with the plan amendment in
order to halt property value deterioration, to increase property tax valuation,
to eliminate the causes of the deterioration in property values and to promote
growth in the downtown district.
   (D)   Approval and adoption of plan amendment. The plan amendment is hereby
approved and adopted. A copy of the plan amendment and all later amendments
thereto shall be maintained on file in the Township Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 21, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 38, passed 6-2-2020)
EXHIBIT A: LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF AREA BEING ADDED TO THE DISTRICT
   Situated in Section 24, T35N, R3W, and Section 19, T35N, R2W, Tuscarora
Township, Cheboygan County, Michigan:
   Beginning at the intersection of the South line of River Street with the
westerly line of Club Road in Block 11 of the map of the Village of Indian
River; thence northeast to the centerline of River Street; thence southeasterly
along said centerline to the intersection of said centerline with the extension
of the westerly line of the parcel as described in Uber 925, page 405; thence
northerly to southwest corner of the parcel as described in Uber 925, Page 405
on the northerly line of River Street thence continuing northerly along the
westerly line of the parcel owned by Tuscarora Township, being Parcel No. 161-
131-011-001-00 to the southerly bank of the Indian River; thence continuing
northerly along the extension of the riparian line of said parcel to the thread
of the Indian River; thence northeasterly and downstream along the thread of
the Indian River to the northwesterly extension of the riparian line of the
northerly line of Lot 8, Block E in the plat of Indian River Side Resort thence
southeasterly to the to the intersection of the northerly line of Lot 8, Block
E in the plat of Indian River Side Resort with the Easterly bank of the Indian
River; thence southeasterly along the northerly line of Lot 8, Block E in the
Plat of Indian River Side Resort and the extension thereof to the centerline of
Nabanois Trail; thence south along the centerline of Nabanois Trail to the
extension of the north line of Lot 25, Block D Plat of Indian River Side
Resort; thence easterly along said line to the east line of said lot; thence
south along the east line of said lot to the South lot line; thence west along
said line and the extension thereof to the centerline of Nabanois Trail; thence
south along the centerline of Nabanois Trail to the centerline of River Street;
thence westerly along the centerline of River Street to the intersection of the
centerline of River Street and the thread of the Little Sturgeon River, thence
southerly along the thread of the Little Sturgeon River to the south line of
Block 12 of the Village of Indian River, thence westerly along said south line
to the westerly line of Club Road; thence northerly along the westerly line of
Club Road to the south line of River Street and the point of beginning.
(Ord. 37, passed 5-5-2020)
 MAP OF AREA BEING ADDED TO THE DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/76c59e9f3c551e2e8061f7fff5d727cfba55ad43/
IMAGES/0-0-0-694.png]
(Ord. 37, passed 5-5-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
31   - -    Granting Presque Isle Electric and Gas Co- Op an electric franchise
            agreement for a period of 30 years.
13   12-6-  Granting Top O’Michigan Rural Electric Company an electric franchise for a
     1988   period of 30 years.
18   12-6-  Granting Michigan Consolidated Gas Company a gas franchise for a period of
     1994   30 years.
23   - -    Granting Great Lakes Energy Gas Services a non-exclusive gas franchise for a
     2001   period of five years.
29   8-6-   Granting Presque Isle Electric and Gas Co-Op a natural gas franchise
     2013   agreement for a period of 30 years.
1A   8-1-   Granting Consumers Energy Company an electric franchise for a period of 30
     2017   years.
23A  5-1-   Granting Great Lakes Energy Gas Services a non-exclusive electric franchise
     2018   for a period of 30 years.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites            Code Section
24.201 to 24.328          70.01
                          94.01,
28.451 et seq.            94.02,
                          94.09
125.539 et seq.           90.26
125.1501 through 125.1531 151.01,
                          151.02
                          152.02,
125.4101 through 125.4195 152.03,
                          152.05,
                          152.07
125.4316(2)               152.04
125.4318                  152.04
247.61 et seq.            91.42
257.677a                  71.05
333.27951 et seq.         112.02,
                          112.03
600.113                   92.99
600.2940(3)               91.47
600.8302                  90.99
600.8701 et seq.          90.99
600.8701 through 600.8735 10.02
600.8709                  90.27
600.8727 et seq.          90.26
600.8791 et seq.          90.27
691.1417                  50.038
764.9a through 764.9e     10.10
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed   Description
2A       - -           71.01,
                       73.02
                       74.01—
10       - -           74.04,
                       74.99
                       71.01—
24       - -           71.04,
                       71.99
31       - -           TSO I
                       94.01—
32       - -           94.09,
                       94.99
                       70.01—
3        7-14-1965     70.03,
                       70.99
                       90.01—
6        eff. 9-1-1965 90.07,
                       90.99
9        7-23-1975     130.15,
                       130.99
2        8-12-1986     73.02,
                       73.99
                       110.01—
7        8-12-1986     110.03,
                       110.99
5        11-11-1986    Ch. 75, Sch. I
4A       7-7-1987      91.99
11       7-7-1987      91.01—
                       91.09
12       2-2-1988      30.01
13       12-6-1988     TSO I
14       11-6-1989     111.01—
                       111.03
17       10-5-1993     113.01—
                       113.17
4B       8-1-1994      91.22
                       92.15,
                       92.16,
8        8-1-1994      92.99,
                       130.01,
                       130.02,
                       130.99
16       8-1-1994      92.01—
                       92.04
18       12-6-1994     TSO I
                       90.20—
19       3-5-1996      90.27,
                       90.99
20       4-2-1996      150.01
21       5-21-1996     152.01—
                       152.11
                       91.20—
4        6-2-1998      91.24,
                       91.99
                       93.01—
22       6-1-1999      93.18,
                       93.99
23       - -2001       TSO I
7A       8-13-2002     110.03,
                       110.04
4C       5-6-2003      91.22
26       10-6-2009     92.31,
                       92.99
                       93.01—
22       7-6-2010      93.18,
                       93.99
21       9-7-2010      152.12
25       2-1-2011      92.30
27       5-1-2012      151.01—
                       151.03
                       50.001,
                       50.015—
                       50.017,
                       50.030—
                       50.053,
-        7-10-2013     50.065—
                       50.072,
                       50.085—
                       50.099,
                       50.110—
                       50.112,
                       50.999
29       8-6-2013      TSO I
                       72.01—
30       2-3-2015      72.15,
                       72.99
                       51.001,
                       51.002,
                       51.015,
                       51.030—
                       51.040,
                       51.055—
                       51.058,
-        4-4-2017      51.070—
                       51.072,
                       51.085,
                       51.100,
                       51.101,
                       51.115—
                       51.117,
                       51.999,
                       Ch. 51, App. A
1A       8-1-2017      TSO I
-        9-5-2017      Ch. 51, App. A
                       70.01—
3A       11-7-2017     70.03,
                       70.99
                       112.01—
34       1-8-2018      112.03,
                       112.99
23A      5-1-2018      TSO I
                       91.40—
35       4-2-2019      91.47,
                       91.99
37       5-5-2020      152.06,
                       Ch. 152, Exhibit A
38       6-2-2020      152.12
 
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by Tuscarora
Township beginning in 2021. The table includes links to the ordinances (as
maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected (where applicable).
For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2014, please
contact the Township.
 
Ordinances that amend the Municipal Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out and are not available in a PDF format for viewing.
 
Jump to:
Ordinances
Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                    Food Trucks/Mobile Food Vending
39        5-11-2021  
                    Section affected:
                    Adding Chapter 114
                    Providing penalities for Chapters 10, 90-92, 111 and 113
                    for civil infractions; Nuisance violations; blight
                    violations; repealing liquor license requirements and
                    revising disorderly person prohibitions
19D       8-3-2021   
                    Section affected:
                    10.02, 10.10, 10.99, 90.99, 91.01, 91.03 - 91.07, 91.22,
                    130.02; Repealing 90.20 - 90.27, 91.08, 91.09, 91.21,
                    91.23, 91.24, 92.15, 92.16, 111.01 - 111.03; Adding 11.01 -
                    11.04, 91.50 - 91.53
                    Repurchase of lots or burial spaces
22        8-1-2023   
                    Section affected:
                    93.13
                    Extending date sewer bills are due and payable before
                    interest or late fees are assessed
28_(2024) 2-6-2024   
                    Section affected:
                    50.112
                    Boat launch entrance fees
25        3-5-2024  Section affected:
                    92.30
                    Blight
--        7-18-2024  
                    Section affected:
                    90.20, 90.22, 91.44, 91.46
                   
                   
 
 
 
